business before Questions New Writ Ordered , that Mr Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough Constituency of Blackpool South in the room of Scott Lloyd Benton , who since his election for the say Borough Constituency have be appoint to the Office of Steward and Bailiff of his Majesty ' s Manor of Northstead in the County of York . — ( Simon Hart . ) speaker ' s statement before we start question , I should say that Scott , who have be work in my office since I become Speaker , be cross to another part of the House service — he be not leave the House — and , on behalf of all Members , I thank he for his work and for ensure the efficiency of my office . oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — sentencing : dangerous offender what step he be take to increase sentence for dangerous offender . to govern be to choose . choice we have make mean that the most dangerous offender — the acid attacker , the rapist , the knife - point robber — who be sentence to seven year or more be require to spend long in custody . the Sentencing Bill go far : murder involve sexual or sadistic conduct will lead to a whole - life order unless there be exceptional circumstance , and those convict of the most serious sexual offence , include rape , will serve 100 % of their custodial term in prison . I welcome the measure that my right hon . and learn Friend have outline , as will my East Devon constituent . rapist deserve the most severe possible custodial sentence . will he update the House on how sentence length have be increase for that utterly vile crime since 2010 ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that rape be an appalling crime . in 2010 , the average custodial sentence for adult rape be six and a half year , and prison governor be require to release offender at the halfway mark . today , the average sentence be over 40 % long , and offender serve more than four year must serve two third of that sentence behind bar . as I say , we be go far still . for all the positive word from the Secretary of State , the reality in our prison be that people be be send out , and the prison estate have not keep pace with the rhetoric that we hear from the Government . the Government be constantly send criminal on to our street because they do not have the prison facility to house they . be not the reality that we need few fine word and more action from the Government to keep our street safe ? that be not a fair characterisation . the capacity in our estate be much great than when we inherit it — that be point one . point two be that we have kick - start the large prison expansion since the victorian era : £ 4 billion have be allocate , and we have open his Majesty ' s Prison Fosse Way and HMP five Wells . HMP Millsike will open next year ; we have plan permission for Gartree and Grendon Springhill , and we also have more space — rapid deployment cell and so on — come on at Liverpool , Birmingham and Norwich . we believe that those who commit the most appalling crime should be lock up for long . as I say , it be wrong that , in 2010 , rapist would be automatically release at the halfway mark . we be the Government who be put that right . I commend my right hon . and learn Friend for build on the work that he and I do together to ensure that the most dangerous and serious offender spend long behind bar . the consultation on sentencing in case of murder conclude a few week ago . when can we reasonably expect a response on that sensitive and important issue ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right to say that it be a sensitive issue . as he know from practice , those who commit the offence of murder outside , use a knife that be bring to the scene , can expect a starting point of 25 year . however , as the Gould and Devey family have make so powerfully clear , where the crime take place inside the home , there be very difficult sentencing decision for judge . the consultation have end , and I pay tribute to the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , who have speak to a number of people about it , as indeed have I . we will respond in the come week , but this matter require careful thought . I pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend for his work on it . Barnaby Webber from Taunton be describe by his family as an " extraordinary ordinary person " . his killer be find guilty of manslaughter , rather than murder , on the basis of be subject to paranoid schizophrenia . Barnaby ' s mother , Emma Webber , say it be " abhorrent " that murder charge be not pursue against her son ' s killer . will the Secretary of State consider re - categorise homicide law to introduce first - degree and second - degree murder ? there be nothing I could say from this Dispatch Box that would put right the horror that the poor family of Barnaby Webber , Grace o ' Malley - Kumar and Ian Austin suffer in those appalling attack from Valdo Calocane . the law of homicide have be consider greatly — in fact , as a Back Bencher , I lead a debate on the issue of first - degree and second - degree murder . it be of course something that we keep under careful consideration ; there be complexity to it , but it be certainly a matter that we will consider . cremation : legislation what assessment he have make of the adequacy of legislation on cremation . the law on cremation have be update when need . for example , the 2008 cremation regulation be currently be amend as part of the ongoing death certification reform . however , the primary legislation on cremation date back to 1902 , and in the light of development since then , I believe that a more comprehensive review be need . that be why the Law Commission have agree to consider the law govern cremation as part of its project on burial , cremation and new funerary method . that project have commence , and we await its finding with interest . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer . obviously , give what be go on in Hull , there be great concern . I know that the Minister can not speak directly about that issue because of the investigation , but there be no formal regulation of funeral director on these issue . Joseph Barsby , the manage director at G . seller — a much - love local funeral director that be at the forefront of funeral facility in Hinckley — be very concerned , because g . Seller want to lead , not be tarnish by be suck into problem in the industry . will the Minister meet with Joseph to discuss way in which we can improve the system ? fail that , will there be a way for funeral director to feed in information and idea on how to improve the system ? my hon . friend make a very good point . the Department have already start work on a call for evidence on where we go with the regulation of the funeral director sector ; that will be issue shortly . I be more than happy to ensure that the view of any funeral director be feed in , and , of course , to meet with the firm in his constituency . I thank the Minister for the productive and supportive way that he have engage with I on the appalling situation with Legacy funeral director in Hull . I be utterly committed to regulate this industry and never again allow that appalling , heartbreake situation to be repeat . I have hear the Minister ' s response to the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , but could he speak a little bit more about timeframe ? do he agree that in the interval before statutory regulation come in , we should encourage all funeral director to subject themselves to voluntary regulation by one of the trade body , and to do everything they can to reassure the public that not all funeral director be in a situation like the appalling situation that we have have in my constituency ? if I may return the compliment , the hon . Lady have handle this appalling incident in her constituency with a great deal of skill . I be committed to work with she and the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who be lead on some of the initial response , alongside the local authority . the call for evidence on where we go on regulation will commence in the next few month ; the decision , of course , will have to wait for the public consultation . this afternoon , I be meet the two major trade body to discuss how they can assist with voluntary inspection , to ensure that after this terrible incident — what have be happen be quite horrific — which nobody think could occur , we get this right , so that people have confidence in the vast majority of funeral director , who be entirely respectable and treat the deceased with the respect and care that we would expect . reduce reoffende what step he be take to reduce reoffende . reduce reoffende be a core mission of this Government . that be why , for example , we roll out the genuinely transformational policy of 12 week ' guarantee accommodation for offender on release , and it be why we have invest heavily in employment ; there be prison employment lead in every resettlement prison . the plan be work : the reoffende rate have fall significantly since 2010 , from 31 % to 25 % , and in the two year to March 2023 , the proportion of prison leaver in employment six month after release more than double . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his answer . he may be aware that the Welsh Affairs Committee have recently hear from business such as Timpson and Williams Homes about the work be do to train and recruit prisoner in Wales . while there be a lot of praise for the New Futures Network , which broker partnership between employer and prison , what be be do to expand the number of release on temporary licence scheme ? as we have hear , they be really important for improve employability and give prisoner a well chance of hold down a job when they get out of the gate . I thank my right hon . friend for the interest he be show in this issue . he be absolutely right to pay tribute to the New Futures Network , which do exceptional work in custody . of course , it be very often able to liaise with employment advisory board — local business people in the area — to ensure that prisoner be train in the skill that they need for job in that area . when I go to HMP Berwyn , which be of course in Wales , one of the thing that I be so impressed by be that its employment hub have a video suite , so that prisoner can be interview by employer on the outside . on my right hon . friend ' s point about ROTL , that be something that prison governor keep under review . certainly in the right case , where ROTL be safe for the public , it can be a useful tool to ensure that prisoner be rehabilitate and get into work , so that they can be law - abide citizen in the future . the Secretary of State will know that one of the way to reduce reoffending be to break the cycle of drug misuse . the problem of course be that in too many prison there be a high incidence of drug get in , so what be he do to reduce the amount of drug in our prison ? the hon . member be right : it be of course really important that we tackle drug come into prison . we have roll out £ 100 million in prison gate security , to ensure that there be airport - style security . there be scanner , include body scanner with very high resolution , so that people come into jail can be scan for illicit contraband that may be be transport internally ; that be important . we be also roll out additional technology that can scan mail for psychoactive substance impregnate into the paper . that be just one of a suite of measure that we be take — plus there be the drug abstinence wing . may I take this opportunity to say that I misspoke early ? Ian Coates be the third victim of the Nottingham attack . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee , Sir Robert Neill KC . thank you , Mr Speaker . I welcome my right hon . and learn Friend ' s comment about the progress make on tackle reoffende , but he will be aware that it remain stubbornly high . we be in an unfortunate position : we imprison more people than most of our neighbour in Europe , but still have high rate of reoffende . do that not posit the fact that we need to make more intelligent use of prison , and of alternative to custody , as part of a join - up system ? would he agree that the Sentencing Bill be particularly valuable in this regard , and can we hope for its swift return to the House ? I thank my hon . and learn Friend for his excellent point . he say something with which I passionately agree : strip out the emotion and follow the evidence . the evidence show that there be tool available to this generation of politician that be not necessarily available 10 or 15 year ago . I be talk not just about GPS tag , which we have double , but alcohol tag , with which there be a 97 % compliance rate . the reoffende rate among those who live with the sword of Damocles hang over they can be much low than for those who spend a short time in custody . as it be his birthday yesterday , I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Speaker . you be never go to let I forget about my birthday . I very much thank the Secretary of State for his answer , and for his very clear commitment to physical and skill training . the other important issue be education . if we keep people ' s mind and body active , they will not wish to offend when they leave prison , so what be be do to help , educationally ? will the Secretary of State share the idea he clearly have with the equivalent Minister in Northern Ireland ? absolutely . importantly , we be roll out a prison education service , with a considerable sum of money — about £ 150 million a year , which be significant . however , it be critical to have tie - up between the local employment advisory board , liaise with the governor , and the New Futures Network to ensure that the education provide be tailor to the job on the outside . People be be assist with literacy , for example , so that they can do job in hospitality , kitchen or horticulture . education work when it be tailor to job opportunity on the outside . that be how we get prisoner motivated and engage — and yes , I be happy to engage in the way that the hon . Member propose . last Power of Attorney Agreements what step he be take to prevent the potential abuse of last power of attorney agreement . when an LPA application be submit , there be a statutory four - week waiting period before the LPA can be register , during which objection can be lodge . as for register lpa , any concern about an attorney abuse one can be report to the Office of the Public Guardian , which will investigate . as part of the modernisation of lpa follow the passage of the Powers of Attorney Act 2023 , new identity verification process will be introduce to far strengthen the system . More than 6 million people in Britain have last power of attorney agreement . I have be inundate recently with so many harrowing story from across the country of abuser target elderly people and steal their estate from under their nose . will the Minister ensure that a proper medical assessment be carry out before an LPA be activate , and that the digitisation of lpa do not lead to family lose their love one ' s estate to unscrupulous abuser ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , and I be more than happy to take that away and write to he about the step we take to ensure that that level of check be in place . I reassure the House that people can check the " use a lasting power of attorney " service on gov . uk to see where lpa have be issue , and whether one have be issue without their knowledge . Secure Youth Estate : Violence what step he be take to reduce violence in the secure youth estate . the number of child in custody have fall by nearly 70 % in the last decade , but that mean that those in custody be more complex ; 71 % of they be detain for violent offence . although the rate of prisoner - on - prisoner assault decline by 7 % between July and September 2023 , compare with the same period in 2022 , the rate of assault on staff increase . that be why all site have a safety strategy reflect local driver of violence . that include tackle the use of weapon , and training staff in conflict resolution . much have be do , but there continue to be more to do , and we remain focused on do it . those strategy be clearly not work . there be 320 assault on staff between July and September 2023 , of which 24 be serious . that be a 9 % increase , year on year , in assault in the child and young people ' s estate . when will the Minister put in place a proper plan to cut violence in the youth estate and keep staff safe ? the plan we have put in place be work , but there be more to do . the hon . Gentleman highlight statistic that , as he will accept , I acknowledge from the Dispatch Box . we believe that our approach to tackle violence and to conflict resolution in our youth estate be right , and we will continue to press forward with it to reduce rate of assault on our hard - work and dedicated prison officer and staff . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have decide to change the use of Cookham Wood youth offender institution to an adult prison . that follow a lack of progress in improve young people ' s access to education , and increase violence on the prison estate . the behaviour management method of keep young people in their cell have fail . this decision put a spotlight on the wide crisis in adult prison . when the young people be transfer , how will the Minister ensure that the practice of keep they in their cell , and the cycle of violence , will end ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for her question about Cookham Wood . as she will be aware , a number of specific local factor at work in Cookham Wood lead to the urgent notification , and the challenge in address that . as for those young people and their transfer to other institution , a number of they will be release before Cookham Wood close . those still in custody will be assess individually , and they and their family will be engage with to ensure that they be place in institution that be well suited to their need , and that give they the great opportunity to progress and make positive life choice for when they be release . it be a shame that the Minister do not address the violence specifically . violence be a challenge across the youth estate , not just at Cookham Wood . recently , a girl with challenging behaviour and complex need at Wetherby YOI be restrain and then strip — not once , but twice — by male officer . in the context of rise violence and extreme self - harm , do the Minister believe that be acceptable , and what alternative provision do he have in mind other than the Keppel unit in Wetherby YOI ? I do address the point about violence on the estate in response to the original question from the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . the hon . Lady ask specifically about a case highlight by the chief inspector of prison in his recent report . what happen there be clearly against policy . it be clearly wrong and concern , but I do have to correct she : the individual involve be at no point strip - search . that be inaccurate reporting . at all time , the modesty of the individual be protect with a blanket , so I be afraid that what be say in report that it be a strip search be not correct . clothe be remove under a blanket in order to protect life where there be imminent risk to it . those officer make a difficult decision in the circumstance to protect life . it be right that we look into the specific of what happen , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor and I have do . I think we just need to be a little cautious at this point about accept everything that be report as fact . violence against Prison Officers what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of violence against prison officer . all assault on prison staff be utterly unacceptable . that be why we have take step to protect our staff . I put on record something that I suspect those on both side of the House share , which be our gratitude to all those who work in our prison . to protect staff , we have roll out PAVA — pelargonic acid vanillylamide — spray in adult male prison , and body - wear video camera . the maximum penalty for those who assault prison officer have be double , and we have complete our £ 100 million security investment programme to clamp down on the illicit item that fuel prison violence . the rate of assault on staff in the 12 month to September 2023 be 10 % low than in the 12 month to September 2019 — before the pandemic — but it be still far too high . I know the Minister care about this issue and want to see solution for how we protect prison officer across the prison estate , but accord to the Prison Officers Association and the Community union , serious offence against prison officer be up 10 % on last year . some 750 of those assault be deem to be serious , and 23 attack be be record every day on the prison estate across England and Wales . there be huge concern about overcrowding . the level of prison officer be 10 % low than in 2010 . it be positive to hear the Secretary of State talk about open new prison , but if there be no prison officer to work there , how will we resolve these issue ? more worryingly , prison officer be take to the medium to say that they be frightened for their life to work on the prison estate . I do not think the plan be work . I believe the Minister want to fix it , but what be the next plan to resolve thing and ensure that prison officer remain safe on our prison estate ? no one , in any walk of life , should be in fear of assault at work , and that obviously include dedicated prison officer . I have already highlight the step we be take to tackle some of the root cause of that violence . we have the £ 100 million security measure to tackle illicit drug and mobile phone — the sort of thing that fuel the violence — and the ability to deploy PAVA spray . the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight the importance in this context of the number of prison officer . that be why I be pleased that in the late statistic publish at the end of last year , number be up by 1 , 500 , and retention rate be improve , too . victim of Domestic Violence : Court Proceedings what step his Department be take to help ensure that victim of domestic violence be protect throughout court proceeding . the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 be transformative with the protection it give to domestic abuse victim through the justice system . to give just a few example , up - front legal aid be available to all domestic abuse victim seek a protective order , without have to establish evidence of abuse . our upcoming legal aid mean test review will significantly increase eligibility and exclude dispute asset , such as the marital home , from consideration . perpetrator be prohibit from cross - examine their victim , and victim be entitle to the support of an independent domestic violence adviser throughout the process . my office have recently assist with several case regard the use of court proceeding involve victim of domestic abuse . in many case , family issue be go straight to trial without any mediation , which cause far more trauma for all party concern . can the Minister assure I that we will always place the victim at the forefront of court proceeding in these circumstance ? it be specifically to address that issue that we commission our harm panel , which conduct excellent work , as a result of which the Ministry of Justice have conduct a pilot of pathfinder court in Dorset and north Wales focus on prevent exactly this issue . those court have focus on create a less adversarial system where domestic abuse allegation be investigate and resolve at an early stage without be intensify through the court . my hon . friend will be glad to hear that so successful have the pilot be that it will now be roll out on a national basis , start next month with court in south - east Wales and in Birmingham . in 2023 , 67 , 938 rape be record by the police , but there be just 2 , 008 rape conviction . it be well document that there be not enough support for rape victim through the court process . the use of counselling note have a chilling effect , and the long wait for their case to go to trial have an intense impact on survivor , often cause they to withdraw . what will the Minister do to ensure that victim and survivor be support throughout the court process ? it be not in dispute that rape be the most serious offence a person can experience that be not homicide . it be as a result of the implementation of the end - to - end rape review that we start Operation Soteria through the police force . that have not just improve rape prosecution ; some force be refer quadruple the volume of case to the Crown Prosecution Service that they be once before , and overall prosecution have more than double . we have close to 1 , 000 independent sexual violence adviser work in the system , hold a victim ' s hand from the minute they go to the police to the conclusion of the process . I meet some in Hatfield last month , who tell I that victim have tell they they have only stay in the process because of that support . it be night and day from where it be in 2010 . we review the outcome of the rape review every quarter , and the curve be go upwards , so of course it be a crucial issue , but one on which significant improvement be be make on every single matrix . domestic abuse have no place in modern society or any society . what work be happen to ensure that victim of domestic abuse be support throughout the entire process ? we have a fantastic organisation in Watford call Watford Women ' s Centre , which help many abuse victim , but what be the Government do to ensure that victim be support throughout and that the perpetrator be take to court and justice be serve ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent question . I give he a similar answer to the one I give the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . one thing that have be transformative in victim support be the provision of not just independent sexual violence adviser , but independent domestic abuse adviser . again , there be nearly 1 , 000 adviser in the system help victim every step of the way . one thing that I be most excited about in this challenging area of the law be the pilot launch next month for domestic abuse protection order , which will give police or victim the ability to go to the magistrate court or the family court to seek a blend of measure , whether that be a non - molestation order , an occupation order or a stalk protection order , and create positive obligation on the perpetrator , whether that be on alcohol abuse or through the perpetrator programme . there be a comprehensive package of support for domestic abuse victim . in Scotland , victim of rape and serious sexual assault be now able to access free court transcript . the project will give victim free access to transcript that previously would have cost thousand of pound . however , the UK Government refuse to match the scheme and be only commit to a one - year pilot scheme , in which free copy of sentencing remark will be make available to victim of serious crime . that be not good enough . it fail victim like my constituent , Juliana Terlizzi , who be charge over £ 7 , 000 to read the transcript of her rapist ' s trial . ahead of Report stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill in the other place next month , will the Justice Secretary meet Juliana and I to discuss match the scottish scheme , which will help get victim the justice they deserve ? I reassure the hon . Lady that the Courts Minister have say that he will meet she to discuss the matter . she will know that the cost of transcription for a full trial can be as high as £ 20 , 000 , but the power and impact of any trial , where there have be a conviction , be in the judge ' s sentence remark at the end , in see everything , and society ' s opprobrium be express through the voice of the judge . that be why we be conduct a pilot for free sentencing remark in all those case . child in Care : family Courts what assessment he have make of the impact of delay in the family court on child who have be take into care . delay in decision making during care proceeding can have a significant impact on child , and we recognise that there be more to do to address that challenge . that be why last year the Government publish their response to the independent review of child ' s social care , set out a programme of action to achieve well outcome . the Department for Education be invest an extra £ 10 million on new initiative to address the long delay and meet the statutory requirement to resolve proceeding within 26 week . datum from Cafcass show that child who have be remove from their parent by the state have to wait an average of 46 week to get a final decision on where they will live . that be heartbreaking . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of extend family proceeding on the mental health of the child involve and their ability to access support and child and adolescent mental health service ? the hon . Lady raise a very serious point . the impact on the child and the wide family be appreciate . we have invest in capacity , with more money for Cafcass , judge and recorder , and more sitting day to ensure that we increase capacity so that hearing can be hear effectively . we be also focus on the public law outline , which set a maximum number of hearing and the time limit , to ensure that proceeding be hear on time . if the hon . Lady wish to raise any specific case , I will be happy to meet she to get to the bottom of any specific problem . I call the shadow Minister . despite the response give to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , the Government be still a long way from solve the crisis in the family court . we have hear of the 46 - week average , but in 13 of the 42 designate family judge area in England and Wales , the wait be double the statutory target of 26 week . then , there be the 80 , 000 private family law case that can take 45 week to be resolve , and the number of new case be increase fast than disposal . do the Government have any concern or compassion for some of the most vulnerable child in the country who be be let down ? I invite the Minister to try again and assure the House that the crisis will not get even bad . if there be a lever that I have not pull , I invite the shadow Minister to let I know what it be , and I will address it . this government be spend more money on attract more judge and recorder , maximise sit day and invest in the public law outline and , on the flip side of public family law , on private family law as well as mediation . we be invest an extra £ 55 million , as announce in the Budget , to address productivity and the backlog . every single lever that will increase capacity and productivity be be pull , but I be more than happy for the hon . member to share any insight with I , and I be sure that we can work on a well solution . Crown Court Backlog what step his Department be take to reduce the backlog in the Crown court . what step his Department be take to reduce the backlog in the Crown court . More than 90 % of all criminal case be resolve in the magistrate court , which include burglary , theft , assault , criminal damage and drug offence . thank to magistrate ' exceptional effort , the caseload have come down significantly from its post - pandemic peak , and case be be hear promptly . to help bring down the caseload in the Crown court , the Government have invest heavily to allow court to operate at full throttle . we have recruit around 1 , 000 judge and tribunal member across all jurisdiction this financial year . we have keep open 20 nightingale courtroom to boost capacity , and we be on track to increase spending on criminal legal aid by more than £ 140 million a year . in Yorkshire , Sheffield Crown court have be force to shut twice in the last two year due to flooding . that be in addition to the already record - break court backlog across the UK of 67 , 000 case . what measure have the Government put in place to deal with unplanned court closure , to ensure that people still have access to justice ? one of the first thing I do when I take on this role be to extract from the Treasury an additional £ 80 million to go into our court maintenance fund . that be important because it allow we to plan not just reactively this year , but proactively over time . that will create more efficiency and get we more for our money , and will mean that great court such as those in Sheffield can continue to do the business . how do the backlog in criminal court case vary by region ? what discussion have the Secretary of State have with local judicial team on prioritise and communicate those backlog ? the senior preside judge will keep a close eye on regional discrepancy . in certain case , there be the power to transfer they from one court to another , but that will depend on the suitability for defendant , and witness and victim who need to attend hearing . it be important that we send the message from this Chamber that more than 90 % of all criminal trial — the case that people want resolve such as criminal damage , drug matter and common assault — be deal with in magistrate court , and magistrate up and down our country be do an excellent job at get through those case . I absolutely endorse the Lord Chancellor ' s comment on magistrate work incredibly hard to clear backlog in court . he will have see recent journalistic reporting relate to single justice procedure , which be an important element of magistrate ' work . the principle behind the single justice procedure be good , and I have sit on case in SJP court , but there be some concern , in particular around vulnerable individual who may have mitigation that be not necessarily be address . do he agree that perhaps he could remind member that magistrate can already use their discretion to refer case back to open court , where prosecutor can review case to ensure that individual who be vulnerable be not serve with un - justice ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend and his colleague for the exceptional work they do to ensure that justice be do . on the single justice procedure , fairness be non - negotiable , so it be critical that every person who come before the court , whether via the SJP or an open court , get that fairness . there be an issue about transparency . some important point on that have be raise , and echo by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . it be something that we ought to consider recalibrate . everyone accept that the SJP work well and be a useful addition . we just need to see whether it ought to be refine in the interest of promote transparency . end of Custody Supervised Licence how many prisoner have be release early under the end of custody supervise licence scheme since October 2023 . end of custody supervise licence begin in October 2023 . analysis of and statistic on its use will be base on one year ' s worth of datum and publish on an annualise basis in line with other statistic , such as death of offender in the community . we consider that to be the appropriate approach . early this month , the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who be in his place , say that prison be at " bursting point " , while the Prison Governors ' Association say that without the extension of the ECSL scheme , our criminal justice system " may have grind to a halt " . meanwhile , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner label the plan as " dangerous to domestic abuse victim " . be the Minister satisfied that the scheme manage the prison population while keep the victim of crime safe ? if so , when will he release datum about which prisoner have be release ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . there be a number of point there . the ecsl be a response to , yes , acute capacity challenge , but it be a targeted scheme operate in prison as require and where necessary . I gently say to he that a similar scheme run from 2007 to 2010 . in that case , it bear significant difference to what be happen now . ECSL , as operate now , contain a range of important safeguard that be simply not in place between 2007 and 2010 . the 2007 - 10 scheme release some people straight into the community without any supervision and lead to the early release of some prisoner convict of terror offence . this scheme be totally different . it play a role in manage the prison capacity challenge , but it have those important safeguard in place to protect victim and society . our prison be full , so much so that the Government be sanction the early release of inmate to make space . at what point will we prioritise the deportation of foreign criminal who be take up one in nine of our prison cell , so that we can get back to zero - tolerance policing and ensure that no crime be too small to go unpunished ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , because she be quite right to highlight that a key element of tackle the prison capacity crisis be send back , through deportation , foreign national offender . she will be reassure that 18 , 000 have be deport in the past four year and we continue to drive that target ever higher . I call the shadow Minister . it be tell that the Minister be refuse to come clean with the public on how many prisoner be be release early under the scheme . as we know , the public be overwhelmingly in favour of an early release scheme if it be apply to his colleague in a general election . [ laughter . ] do he have any intention , before that happy day , of release the truth about how many prisoner be be let out early ? it be always a pleasure to face the gentle barb of the hon . Gentleman , whom I have know for a long time . as I have make very clear on a previous occasion in the House , and indeed just a few moment ago , we consider that an annualise publication of these statistic be the most appropriate approach , in line with the publication of similar statistic such as those relate to death of offender in the community . legal aid : immigration case what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of legal aid for immigration case . the Legal aid Agency monitor the provision of immigration legal aid and take whatever action be operationally available to it to ensure a supply of provider . I be hope for an answer but do not get one , so let I try this . while we all desperately want to see the Tories ' asylum backlog clear , this effort must be well fund and must ensure access to justice . what we have instead be an under - resource bureaucracy and a push to make rush asylum decision , combine with severe difficulty in access immigration legal aid , and as a result thousand of asylum seeker have effectively be deny the right to legal representation . why do the UK Government stand alone in not recognise the enormous crisis in immigration legal aid ? in fact , the Government spend £ 44 million on immigration legal aid in 2022 - 23 . we have increase the hourly rate for those undertake this kind of work , and we be look at remote access and payment for travel . all those step we have take to raise the level of funding in this important area . I have to say , however , that I think it take a particular bit of brass neck for the SNP to lecture we on the funding of legal aid . I refer the hon . gentleman to Scottishlegal . com , which have comment on how the SNP have decimate legal aid in Scotland . I call the SNP spokesperson . perhaps the Minister can answer this question . the Bar Council have repeatedly highlight the fact that asylum claimant who have otherwise meritorious case have often go through multiple appeal due to very poor or no legal representation . that jack up the cost for the court , the Home Office and local authority , all the while trap vulnerable people in an agonising limbo . if the Government will not address the crisis in immigration legal aid because it be the right thing to do , will they at least do so because it be the financially sound thing to do ? as I have say , we be already increase the fee for those who take on legal aid work in connection with the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . that be a 15 % increase on the increase that we have already see . on top of that , we be roll out remote access to the duty advice scheme and introduce payment for travel . those be major step towards ensure the availability of legal aid . I therefore do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s description of the position . if he want to start swap comment from the Bar Council , I can quote the Scottish Bar Council ' s view on the SNP ' s record . hmpps reoffende Programmes what recent assessment his Department have make of the impact of outcome datum from the Justice Data Lab on the recommissioning of HM Prison and Probation Service reoffende programme in the last 12 month . reduce reoffende be a core mission of this Government . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor say in an early answer , we act on the basis not of emotion but of evidence , deploy a series of carefully research intervention from the prison employment lead to the provision of 12 week of accommodation post release . that be why the reoffende rate have decrease from 31 % to 25 % since 2010 . the Justice Data Lab make an important contribution by provide hmpps and external organisation with a robust assessment of whether their intervention work , and we will continue to consider their work carefully . I welcome the adherence to an evidence - base approach to work out whether or not these various programme work effectively , but may I urge Ministers to go even far by ensure that every programme we currently commission be reassess on the basis of outcome , and then not recommissione unless those outcome measure up ? I can confirm that the Government will continue to base our investment decision to reduce reoffende on the well available evidence at the time . we be continuously improve our evidence base , for instance through the cross - governmental well Outcomes through Linked Data programme . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last session of Justice question I have visit HMP Liverpool , a prison that receive a poor inspection report some year ago , and I see how it have be transform . prisoner be engage in constructive activity in the cycle repair workshop and elsewhere , cell have be refurbish , and there be a clear sense of pride among prison officer , who be determined to deliver safety , decency and rehabilitation . prison as well as prisoner , it seem , can be redeem . I have also visit Liverpool Crown court to see our " intensive supervision court " in action , tackle the root cause of offend with treatment for addiction . in Coventry I see rapid deployment team of offender who have be sentence to carry out unpaid work clear up local neighbourhood , visibly atone for their crime , and do so within 48 hour of the project be nominate by the public . I be pleased to support the important Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill , promote by the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) , which be intend to tackle abusive and chilling lawsuit . we have also bring forward legislation on litigation funding agreement to ensure that third party can continue to fund court proceeding on behalf of individual or small business . that support enable the sub - postmaster to make their successful civil claim . our legislation will bolster access to justice , boost our legal sector , and ensure that in our court David can still take on Goliath . the Government have achieve only 5 , 900 of the promise 20 , 000 new prison place , result in they have to release prisoner up to 60 day early to alleviate overcrowding , thereby directly impact on public safety . how do the Secretary of State reconcile this with the conservative promise of be tough on crime , especially when his end - of - custody supervise licensing scheme expansion significantly deviate from judicial sentencing ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . when I be in practice , I have to listen to the then Labour Home Secretary say that he be go to cancel the three titan prison that he have boast he would open . not one be build . we have open Five Wells and Fosse Way , and Millsike be under construction . we have more cell come online in Birmingham , Liverpool and Norwich . we have rapid deployment cell , and we have new houseblock in Guys Marsh , Rye Hill and Hatfield . this be the party that be deliver . we will be tough on crime . may I gently say that there a lot of people I need to get in ? if we could shorten the answer , that would be helpful . I recently meet my constituent David Winnett , who be a family law solicitor and a member of Resolution . he tell I about Resolution ' s vision for family justice . I wonder whether my right hon . and learn Friend be familiar with that vision , particularly the importance place on early legal advice in family dispute . be there scope to add resolution ' s propose scheme to the mediation pilot that the Government currently have plan ? resolution do exceptionally important work , and in the Budget the Chancellor announce an additional £ 55 million of support for separate parent , include £ 12 million to deliver a new pilot . we be work with Resolution and other organisation to implement the pilot , which we aim to launch in September this year . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this Conservative Government promise 20 , 000 prison place by 2025 , but so far they have only deliver under 6 , 000 . the Justice Secretary be let violent offender out up to two month early because , as we find out from press briefing about dire warning to no . 10 , he have literally nowhere to put they . instead of focus on what happen 14 year ago under the last Labour Government , will he level with the public about the true scale of the prison capacity crisis that be unfold on his watch ? I have be very candid in say that there be pressure in our prison . but here be the thing : first , capacity in our jail be significantly high than it be under Labour ' s watch ; and secondly , we have a record of delivery and there will be 10 , 000 place by next year . here be the really important point . there be two question that I pose in my statement . first , would Labour have let out up to 16 , 000 people during covid — yes or no ? we say no . secondly , would Labour have get rid of jury trial ? we do not , but the opposition would have . if they have make the same decision that we do , they would have face the same pressure . this be opportunism , it be silly , and Britain deserve well . bring on the general election and I will happily answer those question . I be not surprised that the Secretary of State do not want to acknowledge the truth . probation officer have tell I that they genuinely fear not be able to keep the public safe , because they be be force to rush through the early release of violent man in order to free up space . he will have hear the same concern , so what be he go to do about it ? it be really important that the public be not inadvertently mislead . early release do not apply to those on life sentence , those on imprisonment for public protection sentence , those on extended determinate sentence , any sex offender , any terrorism offender and any serious violent offender . the difference between our scheme and the opposition ' s be that , under their scheme , governor have no discretion to block the release of prisoner ; under our , they do . that be the difference : we prioritise public safety ; the Opposition prioritise politic . my constituent Cindy go through hell when her daughter Victoria be brutally rape and attack by a serial offender , Donald Andrews . Victoria take her life not long after . this monster be a regular offender before and , to add insult to injury , his whole - life sentence have be quash and he be now apply for parole . Police psychologist and other professional have deem this attacker to be a high risk to society , so will my right hon . friend make similar representation to the Parole Board — that this monster should never be allow out ? many people in this House will have hear about some appalling case , but this case be truly one of the most shocking and upsetting that any of we will have encounter . I of course pass on my deep sympathy to Cindy Legg for the tragic loss of her daughter Victoria . I can indicate that I do enter an overarching view oppose release , and I can announce that he will not be recommend for release . I hope that will be of some comfort to the family . in the Victims and Prisoners Bill we be introduce an additional safeguard : specifically , a power for the Lord Chancellor to order a second check on the release of the most serious offender to keep the public safe . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Government ' s plan to introduce employment tribunal fee suggest that user should pay towards run cost , imply that only those use the system benefit from it . however , Resolution Foundation research show that tribunal be heavily rely upon to enforce worker ' right for all . do the Justice Secretary not appreciate that any action to deter lower - pay worker from bring forward case will be to the detriment of the system as a whole ? we do not believe that a £ 55 claim issue fee will be a deterrent . the tribunal system cost the taxpayer £ 80 million a year , and we do not think it be unreasonable that those who use it should pay a small contribution . to answer the question , we do not think it be a deterrent . the tragic reality be that when intimate partner murder , woman be the victim in 90 % of case . what progress have the Government make since the Wade review on ensure that justice be do in these case ? we be increase sentence by introduce statutory aggravating factor for murder that be precede by coercive or control behaviour , that involve overkill or that be connect with the end of a relationship . for manslaughter involve sexual conduct , we intend to target case where death occur in the context of abusive or degrading sexual conduct . we have consult publicly on sentencing , with starting point for murder precede by control or coercive behaviour and for murder commit with a knife or other weapon . People want access to justice . the Women ' s Budget Group have find that , as a result of the disastrous legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 , 85 % of vulnerable woman be unable to access civil legal aid and the majority of they be reach crisis point . do the Minister think it be right that these woman be be leave without basic access to justice ? the hon . Lady raise an important point and I would be happy to meet she and take representation on that specific point . I will also discuss it with Lord Bellamy , who , alongside I , deal with civil legal aid . I thank the Lord Chancellor for meet I and my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) to discuss the egregious case of Colin Pitchfork , the double child rapist , who have have problem bounce in and out through the Parole Board system . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend can not change the law on this retrospectively , but what can he do in upcoming legislation to ensure that we have the protection for our community to make sure they be safe and that reoffender be not release ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this incredibly important case and for take it up so powerfully on behalf of his constituent . in the Sentencing Bill , we have a proposal such that people who commit crime of murder involve sexual and sadistic conduct will not be release , because they will be expect to serve a whole - life order . that be just , on behalf of the british people , and it also help to keep community such as that of my hon . friend safe . the number of outstanding case before Gwent magistrate court have rise by 21 % in the last year alone . however , the number of magistrate be now 20 % low in the whole of south Wales . we have hear today about the great work of the magistrate court and the fact that magistrate come from all walk of life . what be the Government do to ensure that hard - to - reach people be offer their service as magistrate , include ethnic minority and , in particular , young people ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . I lead on diversity in the Department , and a piece of work be already under way on how we can increase the diversity of the magistracy and ensure that we recruit from those hard - to - reach group . I be more than happy to meet he to swap idea and discuss how we can continue to change the face of our magistrate . do the Secretary of State for Justice agree that in England and across the United Kingdom , the ancient principle of innocent until prove guilty should be uphold and restore , and that the punishment should never be the process ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be ask about my priority when I be appoint to this role , and I say that the guilty should be convict , that the innocent should walk free and that the public should be protect . it be very important that people who be accuse of an offence have confidence that the process will be prompt and humane . ultimately , the british people be fair minded . they want people to be rightfully convict , but they also want the innocent to walk free . since 27 February , there have be six sudden death at HMP Parc in Bridgend , and it appear that at least four of those tragic death be drug - related . what be the Government do to ensure that inmate at Parc be keep safe and walk out of prison safe and well at the end of their sentence ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for highlight a serious and important issue . I be happy to meet she to discuss it far , if she wish . in line with establish protocol for death in custody , we be not able to comment on individual case until the relevant investigation by the prison and probation ombudsman have conclude , but HMP and YOI Parc have mobilise a range of action to gather intelligence on drug entry point and on what have happen . I be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss this matter privately . when the National Crime Agency brief member who be interested in the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill , it estimate that between 550 , 000 and 800 , 000 serious sexual offender be at large in this country . what be the Government do to identify they ? how many more prison will we have to build to accommodate they ? I be proud that , since 2010 , the number of people prosecute for rape be up 32 % , sentence be around 40 % long and the proportion of those sentence spend in custody have increase . we be determined to do everything possible to send a clear message that address serious sexual offending be a priority for this Government . we will clamp down on it , and those who perpetrate this vile crime can expect the punishment they deserve . the Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) and which the Government now support , be a great opportunity to tackle pernicious lawsuit that seek to silence journalist , campaigner and even sexual assault survivor , but two key deficiency — the overly subjective test and the narrow definition of public interest — mean that anti - slapp campaigner tell I that they simply can not support the Bill in its current form . ahead of the important Committee stage , will the Lord Chancellor commit to look at the amendment suggest by the News Media Association and meet I to address its concern so that the Bill become fit for purpose ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this important issue . I be aware of the issue that have be raise . there be plainly a delicate balance to strike . it be incredibly important that individual can access the court to get a remedy in appropriate case , and we want to make sure that the balance be properly strike . we will consider the amendment with care , as I have with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . if the hon . Lady want to make representation to I , I will listen to they very carefully . Worksop witness the horrific murder of Pauline Quinn by a man who have be release after serve time for a double murder . the probation service have since admit that mistake be make . however , the public still have many unanswered question . do the Minister agree that , although it be understandable that all the information sometimes can not be put in the public domain , the probation service should seek to be as transparent as possible and give community that information , where possible ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important issue . he be right to highlight that there be occasion when it be not possible to make all the information public , but it be important that there be as much transparency as possible . if it would be helpful , I be happy to meet he to discuss it far . Selby be class by the Law Society as a legal advice desert for housing , education and family legal aid . what be the Minister ' s plan to fix that ? the Legal aid Agency keep the location of provider under constant review . we have invest an additional £ 10 million over the last few month in those specific type of legal aid . if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I can give he the detail of where the spend be go in his local area . Joshua Rozenberg KC have present " Law in Action " on Radio 4 over the past 20 year , and it have frequently shed important light on area of our justice system that need attention . do the Secretary of State share my disappointment that today ' s broadcast will be the programme ' s last , because it have not be recommissione ? will he also pay tribute to Joshua Rozenberg for his work ? I be very grateful to my hon . and learn Friend for raise this point . Joshua Rozenberg have make a profound and important contribution to our country . indeed , he be require reading , and I read he most day . I share my hon . and learn Friend ' s profound regret , and I echo his sentiment . I think the whole House will wish Joshua Rozenberg well . all through Lent , woman nationwide have face intimidation from the anti - choice group 40 day for life block their entrance to abortion clinic daily . why be that happen , give that mp vote by a ratio of 3 : 1 in 2022 for safe access zone , with the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) be one of they ? I concur with the hon . Lady that it be completely unacceptable that anyone should feel harass or intimidate when exercise their legal right to abortion service . I hope she will be reassure to hear that it be anticipate that section 9 of the Public Order Act 2023 will be commence no later than this spring . the consultation on the guidance publish by the Home Office close on 22 January and the final response will be publish in due course . I must just say one thing , however : it be right that a balance will need to be strike where compete right be engage , include under article 10 and 11 of the european convention on human right . our probation service be in crisis , with staff overwork , overstretch and undervalue . the expansion of the early release scheme will put yet more pressure on they , so what be the Minister do this year to help our probation staff face that extra workload ? probation officer do an exceptionally important job , as I believe we all agree . let I set out what we have do in respect of prison and probation staff . first , we accept every penny of the Prison Service pay review body recommendation . we have inject extra funding of more than £ 155 million a year into probation . Prison officer do a tough job , as do probation officer , but I be delighted to report that the retention of prison officer be improve , with the staff resignation rate in prison drop from about 10 . 7 % to 8 . 3 % , and their number have increase . as for probation , we have recruit about 4 , 000 people in the past three year . that be positive and we will continue to support they every step of the way . do we have enough crematorium in the UK , give that many family be now have to wait three , four , five or six week for a funeral slot ? why be there such a gap between the cheap crematorium in the country , which charge £ 408 , and the most expensive , in Stevenage , which charge £ 1 , 400 last year ? the challenge face crematorium , and in fact the whole funeral sector , be be review by the Law Commission . this be about not just crematorium , but burial space . there be challenge across the whole death management landscape , to use the technical term , which be why the Law Commission be investigate and bring forward proposal . the fee for civil legal aid be half what they be in 1996 and the number of provider have fall by 40 % in the past 10 year . if the Minister actually want to do something about civil legal aid , why have he kick the civil legal aid review into the long grass ? legal aid be always under constant review and I will always take advice from those close to it . that be why I engage with , for example , the Bar Association , the Law Society and the judiciary on what we need to do . as for kick thing into the long grass , all I can say be that I want to get this right and if that take time , it will take time . for the final question , I call Debbie Abrahams . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Justice Secretary do not quite answer my question on where the 67 , 000 criminal case in the backlog be , and how they be be prioritise and communicate . I do not want another historical child sexual exploitation victim to be tell by a Crown court that her case have be cancel twice because it be not a priority . the point I be endeavour to make , although I perhaps do not do so well , be that list be a judicial function . we have see the senior preside judge make a decision that certain sex case and those most serious rape , for example — all of they be serious , of course — will be give an early listing . as I say , I do not have complete control over that , but I do discuss it with the Lady Chief Justice and I know that the senior preside judge be keen to get through those case at the early opportunity . Israel and Gaza with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on Israel and Gaza . as the House know , the United Kingdom have long be call for an immediate humanitarian pause to allow for the safe release of hostage and more aid to reach Gaza , lead to a sustainable ceasefire without a return to destruction , fighting and loss of life . yesterday , the international community take a significant step towards achieve that . we welcome yesterday ' s United Nations Security Council resolution 2728 , which reflect widespread international support for Britain ' s position and considerable effort by our diplomat to secure a consensus . this be an issue that can polarise and divide , but yesterday in New York there be a shared sense of purpose . I be sure the whole House would agree that we must capitalise on this moment . we want to see an immediate , sustained humanitarian pause , which would allow for the safe release of hostage and more aid to reach Gaza . that be what yesterday ' s resolution call for , why the United Kingdom vote " yes " on that text , and why the Government be now focused on see the resolution implement as quickly as possible . this resolution set out the urgent demand for the " unconditional release of all hostage " . Hamas must act on this now . the kidnapping and violence on 7 October be appalling . it have be unconscionable to hold they in captivity for so long , and it be dreadful to hold they any long . we strongly support the intensive diplomatic effort by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to secure their release . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , Lord Ahmad and I have meet the family of hostage , and reiterate to they personally our desire to see their love one free and their agony bring to an end . we urge all side to seize the opportunity and continue negotiation to reach an agreement as soon as possible . yesterday ' s resolution also send a clear message on the need for all party to the conflict to uphold international humanitarian law and for delivery of aid to be scale up urgently . this require the lifting of all barrier impede its delivery . palestinian civilian face a devastating and grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza . his Majesty ' s Government continue to reiterate these message in their contact with the israeli Government , and the Government be explore every avenue to deliver aid by land , sea and air . last week , enough aid to feed over a quarter of a million people be deliver by land from Jordan . Britain be fully engage in the international effort to set up a maritime corridor for aid into Gaza . yesterday , the first airdrop of british aid by the Royal Air Force , with the support of Jordan , take place . we regret that this resolution do not condemn the abhorrent and brutal terrorist attack perpetrate by Hamas on 7 October . the UK condemn these attack unequivocally . we have be forthright in speak up for Israel ' s right to defend itself and ensure such an attack can never happen again . we want Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace and security . an immediate humanitarian pause , lead to a sustainable ceasefire , be the good way to achieve a last peace . we continue to work on the other core element require for such a process to succeed . we have support the formation of a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza under the leadership of Prime Minister Mustafa . an international support package be vital for building on Prime Minister Mustafa ' s appointment . we also want to see the removal of Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel . Hamas can no long remain in charge of Gaza . finally , we need to offer a political horizon to the Palestinians that provide a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution of Israel and Palestine live side by side in peace and security . the resolution pass by the Security Council yesterday do not guarantee this outcome , but it be a significant step forward . the Government will spare no effort in build on this opportunity . we want to create irreversible momentum towards a last peace . Mr Speaker , I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement and echo his support for the formation of a new palestinian Government , which must be support internationally , alongside the need for a two - state solution with Israel and Palestine live side by side in security and peace . yesterday , the UN Security Council finally pass resolution 2728 call for an immediate ceasefire , the immediate release of all hostage and full humanitarian access in Gaza . that be incredibly welcome and overdue . it must now be a turning point . labour welcome , too , the fact that the Government be able to support the resolution . it represent a major shift in Government policy , which previously call only for an immediate pause rather than an immediate ceasefire . why be the Government not able to back labour ' s motion last month ? much more importantly , what step be the Government take to ensure that the UN resolution be implement in full , put pressure on Hamas — who reportedly reject the late compromise — and Israel to reach agreement on a ceasefire now ? that could not be more vital give the terrible human cost of the war , with more than 30 , 000 Palestinians dead , israeli hostage still in chain nearly six month on from the 7 October massacre , and a man - make and preventable famine imminent . aid need to get into Gaza at scale , and it also need to be distribute . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be unmatched in its ability to distribute aid . with just a few week until the new financial year , can the Minister tell we whether the UK ' s funding to UNRWA will resume ? the UN motion also say that all party must " comply with their obligation under international law " . in that context , I will raise a specific incident with the Minister . on 18 January , an International Rescue Committee and Medical Aid for Palestinians compound be strike in a near - fatal airstrike by the israeli military . the co - ordinate be know to Israel and formally de - conflicted . a british medical team and local staff be inside , who , since then , have receive six explanation for that shocking incident , but the truth be still unclear . will the Government support a full and independent investigation to deliver accountability and reiterate that attack on humanitarian worker be outrageous and must not happen ? the Foreign Secretary be not require to come to this House , but he be require to provide legal advice to the Business Secretary on arm export . the law be clear that the Government can not grant a licence if there be a clear risk that the item could be use in violation of international humanitarian law . the war in Gaza have see numerous allegation make of serious breach of humanitarian law by israeli force , and the International Criminal Court be currently conduct an investigation into allege war crime commit by all party in Gaza . on Friday , I write to the Foreign Secretary ask he to publish the most recent legal advice he have receive on this matter . so I end by ask the Minister one simple question : have the Foreign Secretary receive legal advice say that there be a clear risk that item license by the UK might be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law ? the answer be a simple yes or no . first , I thank the right hon . gentleman for his strong support for United Nations Security Council resolution 2728 . he ask what the Government will do to ensure that it be implement in full . just as that resolution show considerable success for british diplomatic work — particularly in New York — he and the House may rest assure that we will be do everything we can to ensure that it be indeed implement in full . the right hon . Gentleman suggest that that be a reflection of Labour ' s position in the House . I hope that , by and large , the Labour position be supportive of the Government , but he should be quite clear that yesterday ' s resolution represent a tremendous success for british diplomacy . it mean that the European Union , the United Nations and the United States now take our position on the priority . I remind the right hon . member that what we say very clearly be that we need an immediate pause , so that we could get aid in and the hostage out , " lead to a sustainable ceasefire " . he will see that british position fully reflect in what be decide yesterday in New York . the right hon . Member ask I about UNRWA . I can tell he that the interim report by the former french Foreign Minister , Catherine Colonna — the final report be not due until 20 April — be now with the Secretary - General in New York and we hope to learn more about it today . the right hon . member refer to a specific strike , which the House have already hear about , and I agree with he entirely that we expect a full , total and definitive explanation for what happen from the israeli Government . he ask I about arm export licensing . let I give he a very clear response to that : we have a robust arm export licensing regime . all export be regularly assess against clear criterion . we regularly review Israel ' s adherence to international humanitarian law and act in accordance with that . as he indicate , we advise the Department for Business and Trade on the situation in - country . the DBT and its Secretary of State be the decision - make authority , but I would point out to he that UK export be very small , amount to 0 . 02 % of Israel ' s military import , and we publish a comprehensive report on official statistic every quarter . finally , the right hon . Member ask I to publish the legal advice . I would point out to he that no Government do that . he will recall , I think , the highly contentious position take at the time of the Iraq war not to publish the legal advice . for a party that aspire possibly in the future to be in Government , I be sure that Labour will see the merit of these convention . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . yesterday the UN Security Council pass a resolution for a Ramadan ceasefire — in effect , a pause . intrinsic to that pause be the release of hostage . can the deputy Foreign Secretary please update we on progress to get those hostage home to safety , because the resolution be very clear that that should happen immediately ? who be enforce the immediate release of hostage ? can he also clarify whether the Government agree with the US statement this morning that the UN Security Council resolution be non - binding ? how be we go to ensure that , on both side , the return of hostage and the ceasefire for Ramadan be enact ? if they be not , I fear that the UN Security Council will face an existential crisis . my hon . friend , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , set out with great eloquence what the international community now require to take place as a result of resolution 2728 be pass yesterday . as I set out in my early remark , we regret that the resolution have not condemn terrorist attack perpetrate by Hamas on 7 October , but I want to re - emphasise that all the thing that Britain have previously be call for be now accept and be record in that resolution . we will , as my hon . friend suggest , continue to do everything we can to ensure that the resolution be implement . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . we very much welcome the UN Security Council resolution , which demand an immediate ceasefire for the month of Ramadan . this be an important first step in achieve the permanent ceasefire that we on the SNP Benches have be urge for several month . we also welcome the UN demand for an immediate and unconditional release of all hostage . we call on all party to adhere to their obligation under international law , to protect civilian and to lift all barrier to humanitarian aid . that this motion specifically demand a ceasefire make it legally bind , and it oblige all combatant to adhere to it , yet already there be significant concern that Israel do not intend to comply with the demand . the israeli ambassador to the UN and the Foreign Minister , Israel Katz , among other , have indicate that they will not adhere to the demand of the ceasefire , with Mr Katz state : " the state of Israel will not cease fire . " Israel , as we know , have form for ignore bind resolution of the United Nations , but rarely can it have do so in such a blatant manner and with such a complete disregard for the rule on which we all rely to keep we safe . give that Israel have signal its intention to ignore the demand for a ceasefire , and rather than wait for the inevitable to happen before act , can the Minister assure the House that , if and when Israel launch its propose offensive on Rafah , the work will already have be do to impose immediate sanction , include , most importantly , the banning of arm sale to Israel , and that Tel Aviv will be under no illusion as to the consequence of its action should it ignore this resolution ? can the Minister update the House on what discussion have be have , or be be plan with our partner and ally , to ensure that we take decisive international action should Israel breach the term of this resolution ? finally , can he confirm whether it be the opinion of the UK Government that , should Israel not adhere to the UN resolution , it will be in violation of a bind resolution and thus stand in breach of international law ? first of all , may I welcome the hon . member ' s support for the Government ' s position , which have not always be the case in these statement ? in particular , I welcome the consensual language from the SNP on the ceasefire , the release of hostage and get aid in . that be very important . it mean that the authority that the Prime Minister bring to this Dispatch Box , which be now the essence of this new resolution 2728 , get broad support from the House , which be very welcome . on the remain part of what the hon . Member say , the Government want to try to bring people together . we want to end the violence as soon as we can , ensure that the hostage get out and aid get in , and lift people ' s eye to a political track once this catastrophe be over . that be what the Government be try to do , and the hon . Member will forgive I for not go down the rather more divisive line that he take . in respect of military action in Rafah , the hon . Member will have hear what the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and I have say about the importance of respect international humanitarian law and the position of civilian catch out in the open there , and I hope that he will agree with that . the terrorist attack of 7 October on Israel have provoke widespread antisemitism in this country and around the world . the late manifestation of that be at Manchester airport yesterday when Border Force guard make it apparent that they do not want israeli Jews to enter this country . two innocent victim of the music festival slaughter be berate and tell : " we have to make sure that you be not go to do what you be do in Gaza over here . " that be to two victim of the Nova music festival slaughter . blame all Jews for the action of their country be obviously antisemitic . these be people in uniform act for this country as Border Force officer . it be a disgrace beyond all proportion . the detention of those victim for several hour be clearly unlawful . they be be offer free legal representation , which I would urge they to take up . can the deputy Foreign Secretary confirm that Jews and Israelis be still welcome to enter this country ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his extremely robust comment on an absolutely outrageous , shocking and disgraceful incident , which be now be personally investigate by the Home Secretary . I think everyone will condemn without reservation the extraordinary event that appear to have take place at Manchester , which be make even bad by the detail that my right hon . and learn Friend give of the detention that take place . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I feel very uncomfortable about the Minister ' s comment about take credit for the UN Security Council resolution when the UK abstain twice in the process . there be not an immediate ceasefire and , after six month , I dread to think how many Gazans have be kill or will die of starvation . give the rapidly deteriorate situation in Gaza , do he agree that it be vital that the Cabinet Minister responsible for overseas aid make himself available to this House for scrutiny ? surely it be not right that member be update on the Foreign Secretary ' s view via the medium , rather than from his answer question in this place . when will the Government do we the courtesy of respond to the Procedure Committee ' s report ? the hon . Lady know that I greatly respect she and the work that she do on the Select Committee . I do not think she should feel uncomfortable , because Britain have take a principle position that be deliver by resolution 2728 , which be pass yesterday . I hope that she will join the general approval for the strong british diplomatic effort that help to deliver that . on the Foreign Secretary , I believe that the Government response to the Procedure Committee report be imminent . she ask about the member of the Cabinet responsible for british aid and development policy : that be I . both I and the Foreign Secretary speak with one voice . a lot of point will be make today argue that responsibility for the ceasefire lie purely with Israel , but that be simply not true . a ceasefire must take place on all side . those who want Israel to lay down its arm but do not insist on Hamas lay down theirs be basically say that Israel do not have the right to ensure that its security be in place . until Hamas dismantle their terrorist organisation , which threaten the life of jewish people , who they do not think should exist — they do not think the state of Israel should exist — we must ensure that any ceasefire be observe by both side of this coin . my right hon . friend make a good point . I hope that he will have notice that I be try to take a balanced approach to these matter . the reason Britain do not call for an immediate ceasefire before , as so many other country do , be that it be perfectly clear that it be not go to happen . he will recall that , when ask about a ceasefire , Hamas make it absolutely clear that their intention be not only to not have a ceasefire , but to replicate once again the terrible event that take place on 7 October . the Minister have say on numerous occasion that the UK have a robust export licensing regime . many Opposition Members be not satisfied with that response . will he finally tell we what the legal advice be on whether this country be in compliance with our obligation under international humanitarian law to ensure that those arm be not use to commit offence in Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman really should not expect I to make a different point from the Dispatch Box have already set out the Government ' s position . that be the position of the Government , and that be what I will reiterate . on the arm export licensing and the application of international humanitarian law , I set out the Government ' s position clearly in my response to the shadow Foreign Secretary . I have nothing furth to add to that at this time . the UN resolution have undermine effort to secure the release of the hostage hold by Hamas , with a collapse in negotiation only today . Hamas have reiterate their hard - line position , which be previously criticise by the United Kingdom . do my right hon . friend share my concern that the resolution will not only embolden Hamas , who hope to achieve a ceasefire without release the hostage , but enable they to maintain their grip on the people of Gaza ? it certainly should not do that . if I may , I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to the explanation of vote that be publish at the same time as Britain support the resolution yesterday . we say : " we regret that this resolution have not condemn the terrorist attack perpetrate by Hams on the 7th of October . the UK condemn these attack unequivocally . " I hope that he will bear that in mind in reach his conclusion about resolution 2728 . what be the Government ' s response to Israel shut off north Gaza to UNRWA , the only aid organisation with the ability to deliver aid at scale ? when will the Government reinstate funding to UNRWA to stop and alleviate the starvation of Gazans ? we have make it clear that we will look at the interim report from Catherine Colonna , and the United Nations report . we hope that reform will be make in such a way that we can reinstate funding , but I should emphasise to the hon . Lady that no funding be due from Britain until the end of April . in respect of her point about the spread of UNRWA , it be the only organisation that have the asset in place — the warehouse , the vehicle , the logistical support — so it be essential that those logistical element be available if aid be to be distribute effectively in Gaza . constituent have be in touch to tell I that they feel badly let down by the vote at the UN yesterday . I just do not understand how the Minister and the Foreign Secretary can say that nothing have change in policy term when the UK have just vote for a resolution that do not condemn the Hamas atrocity of 7 October , and de - link a ceasefire with the release of hostage . as my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) point out , do that not make it less likely that the hostage will be release ? I do not agree with my right hon . friend . the resolution set out the urgent demand for the unconditional release of all hostage . we welcome the ongoing diplomatic effort by Egypt , Qatar and the United States to that end — she will have see the report in the medium . as I say , we have set out clearly in our explanation of vote our regret that the resolution do not once again condemn the terrorist attack , but she have hear we say repeatedly from the Dispatch Box that we do condemn it . over the past week , we have see Israel continue to commit atrocity across Gaza , with the Al - Shifa Hospital besiege for several day . medical staff from inside the hospital report gun battle , worker be beat , patient die on the floor , and even execution - style killing . that be yet another example of Israel ' s merciless target of civilian . will the Minister unequivocally condemn Israel for authorise and carry out such heinous attack , and make clear that hospital and place of refuge must not be target ? the House will not recognise all of the thing that the hon . Gentleman have just say . let I make it absolutely clear once again : Israel do have the right of self - defence , but she must abide by international humanitarian law . it be a testament to how polarise and contest our world have become that the custodian of international security take six month to agree UN Security Council resolution 2728 , which call for a ceasefire , the release of hostage and access for aid . do the deputy Foreign Secretary agree that it be concern that vital UK aid have to be airdrop into Gaza by the Royal Air Force , effectively bypass Israel ? should the new port be build off Gaza to operate the new maritime corridor become a permanent operation with inspection , allow the international community to ensure that the scale of aid require get into Gaza ? I be grateful to the former Chair of the Defence Committee for what he say . he be right that the good way to get aid into Gaza be by truck — by road — and that be what Britain have consistently press for . we know that there be 500 truck a day before the catastrophe of 7 October . there have be an increase in March , but we be now look at something like 150 a day . we be do everything we can to try to ensure that we get aid into Gaza in the easy way possible , but as my right hon . Friend say , we be also look at all other option , include the airdrop that take place yesterday on 25 March in which the Royal Air Force drop 10 tonne of food . we anticipate that further airdrop will be necessary because of the situation he have outline . can I set the record straight for Conservative Members that we on the liberal Democrat Benches have be call for month for an immediate bilateral ceasefire , and that we welcome yesterday ' s UN Security Council resolution ? however , the reality be that northern Gaza be on the brink of famine , with child die of malnutrition , and ten of thousand of child be be kill or maim by israeli force ' bombardment . do the Minister believe that Netanyahu ' s Government be comply with the International Court of Justice ' s provisional order , which state that Israel must ensure with immediate effect that its force do not commit any of the act prohibit by the genocide convention ? if he do not think that the israeli Government be comply with that order , what be he do about it ? in respect of the second part of the hon . Lady ' s question , let I make the Government ' s position clear : we respect the role and independence of the ICJ , but we do not believe , and have never believe , that the case launch now will be helpful in bring the two party together . she will know that the court have call for the immediate release of the hostage and the need to get more aid into Gaza , and we strongly agree with that . she will also know that the ICJ ' s provisional measure order be bind on the party to the dispute as a matter of international law , but she will see that through the work we have be carry out , we be try to address all the point that she make in the first part of her question . we be obviously grateful for the support of Liberal Democrat Members in try to achieve that . may I press my right hon . friend far on the answer he give to the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) ? the humanitarian situation in Gaza be , of course , dire . in northern Gaza , it be estimate that some 70 % of the population be suffer the most appalling food shortage and be resort to eat animal feed , bird seed and grass . do the Minister not recognise that respected international partner such as Australia , Canada , Sweden and Denmark have now restore full funding to UNRWA , which be the most important and capable humanitarian organisation in Gaza ? do he not think that the United Kingdom should also do so as quickly as possible , and in what circumstance and under what condition will that be do ? at the moment , Britain do not have a requirement to provide extra money , because we have fully fund UNRWA through our commitment to that organisation up until the next financial year , which effectively mean the end of April . in an early response , I address the point that my right hon . Friend make so eloquently about the requirement for UNRWA asset to be use . as he know , we will look very carefully at the two report I mention — include the interim one , which should be available in New York today — in the hope that measure will be take that will allow everyone , not just Britain , to restore funding to UNRWA in due course . Diolch yn fawr , Mr Speaker . in the past hour , news agency have report that the israeli National Security Minister , Itamar Ben - Gvir , have tell israeli Army Radio that , " we must enter Rafah now " . surely this announcement that a military assault will be undertake on an area of 1 . 7 million displaced people be a breach of a bind UN Security Council resolution and of international law . the Minister must urgently set out what action he will consider to prevent the israeli armed force take such action . more specifically , do the UK agree that should Israel proceed with this action and refuse to adhere to the demand for an immediate ceasefire , it will be in violation of a bind resolution and in breach of international law ? give the position that the hon . Lady have just outline , I be sure she will welcome yesterday ' s resolution 2728 and the progress that it reflect . she have quote a specific israeli Minister , but she will know that there be many voice in Israel at this time . Israel be a pluralist democracy — the only one in the region — and we be hear many different voice . in respect of any attack on Rafah , she will have hear the word of the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , and indeed myself at this Dispatch Box on the ill - advise nature of military action in Rafah at this time . I have listen carefully to the answer that my right hon . friend have give about the resolution pass , but it be my understanding that only a few week ago , the UK explain at the UN that it could not vote for a resolution that do not condemn the atrocity Hamas commit , and that simply call for a ceasefire would not make one happen . it even say last month that such a resolution " could endanger the hostage negotiation " . as night follow day , the resolution be pass yesterday , and the Israelis have have to withdraw their negotiator due to what they have describe as " delusional demand " from Hamas . will my right hon . friend accept that this resolution have make a material change for the bad , and that get the hostage out have now actually be make less likely ? I do not agree with my hon . friend . the british position have always be very clear : we want a pause that enable the hostage to come out and enable food and vital humanitarian supply to come in . we believe and hope that that will lead to a sustainable ceasefire , and I do not think there be anything in resolution 2728 that act or go against that . the deputy Foreign Secretary state early that he will expect a full explanation from Israel of the incident that be highlight by my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . that incident happen on 18 January , and the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) and I raise it with the Minister around eight week ago . I have also be to the UN in the past few week and raise it with diplomat there . when can we expect an explanation of why british aid agency have be bomb by Israel , potentially use weapon provide in part by we ? can the Minister tell I when that explanation will come ? I be extremely grateful to the hon . Lady for support the position that the British Government and I have set out — that we require an explanation from the israeli Government of the action that take place . we continue to press , but she will understand that timing be not a matter on which the decision rest with the British Government . however , the israeli Government will have hear her voice and , indeed , our voice on this matter . the immediate impact of this resolution appear to be that Hamas have harden their stance on the release of hostage , and the Israelis have say that they will not move until hostage be release . apparently , the negotiation in Qatar be limit to be about only 40 of the hostage , namely the most weak and vulnerable . what be leave out of the resolution be the requirement for immediate access to those hostage for the International Committee of the Red Cross , so that it can assess their condition and , indeed , whether they can travel at all . will my right hon . friend take action to demand immediate access to those hostage for the Red Cross , so that that assessment can take place ? yes . we have be absolutely clear that the hostage must be release as swiftly as possible . my hon . friend will have see the report about the negotiation that have be take place over the past few day , and while I can not give a run commentary , I can tell he that Britain be do everything it possibly can to ensure that those negotiation be successful . to address what he say about the resolution , no one can be in any doubt about the position of the British Government , and indeed the House of Commons , on the release of the hostage . we can all see the devastation in Gaza , where more than 30 , 000 people have be kill . two third of those people be woman and child , and aid be still not get in . while that be take place , the situation on the west bank be , equally , worsen , so will the Minister condemn the recent announcement that 800 hectare of the west bank have be designate as israeli state land ? on the hon . member ' s last point , she will know what we have consistently say about the illegality of these annexation , and I repeat that today . she talk about the position on the west bank . she will have see the extensive work that our Foreign Secretary have put in by go there , and by ensure that Britain do everything it can to make certain that , when we have the opportunity for a political track , the Palestinian Authority be able to move forward . on the point she make about Gaza and the lack of humanitarian support , she will have see that on 13 March , Britain pledge a furth £ 10 million this year , take the total to over £ 100 million , and that on 15 March a field hospital fund by UK aid , from UK - Med , go into Gaza . it have UK and local medic , and we hope that it will shortly be treat 100 patient every day . I welcome the immediate humanitarian pause in UNSC resolution 2728 , and I congratulate our diplomat on their role in this resolution . as the deputy Foreign Secretary have say , the key to deliver enough aid to prevent famine be the use of Israel ' s land corridor , so could my right hon . friend confirm whether Israel will provide enough access to prevent a potential famine , and whether both Israel and Hamas be commit to continue talk during the remain 15 day of Ramadan , with the aim of move towards a sustained ceasefire afterwards ? I thank my hon . friend for what he say about the unstinting work of british diplomat , for which our entire country should be extremely grateful — particularly the work that they have do in New York at the UN to drive forward Britain ' s contribution to the resolution of this matter . on the restriction on land entry , my hon . friend be right that we need to do more . there have be some increase : 137 truck get in on 24 March , and 81 truck , mainly carry food , be able to get in on the 25th . however , we urge the israeli Government to do more about ease the restriction on opening hour , to limit or stop the demonstration at Nitzana , and to do more to grant visa , as there be some 50 application for visa pende . if all those step be take , it would make a material difference to road entry . after six month of bloodshed , starvation and the deliberate blocking of essential aid to Gaza , the UN Security Council have finally demand an immediate ceasefire for the rest of Ramadan . however , let we be clear in this House that 15 day be nowhere near long enough to deal with the humanitarian catastrophe across Gaza . we see no meaningful end to the violence today , the 16th day of Ramadan — almost two month after the ICJ warn of the plausible risk of genocide . frankly , that leave the resolution ring extremely hollow . will the Minister heed the call of this House and demand a permanent , lasting ceasefire , and can he explain how he expect this ceasefire , demand by the Security Council , to be enforce if the UK Government be sell arm to the israeli military — arm that be use to bomb Gaza and break this UN - mandate ceasefire ? I address the issue of the supply of arm in early answer on this statement . I put it to the hon . Gentleman that he be not recognise the importance of the resolution that be pass yesterday . first , it implement the key thing that Britain have be ask for , and secondly , it represent a unity that allow the issue that he and I care about so much to be advanced . I put it to he that resolution 2728 be of much great importance than he submit . it be clear to many international partner that the UK Government must now accept that Israel be potentially commit war crime and genocide . if there be even a chance that Israel be break international law by potentially commit war crime and genocide , why will the UK Government not take all precaution to adhere to their obligation as a party to the genocide convention and the arm trade treaty , and immediately cease arm export to Israel ? I say to the hon . Gentleman , for whom I have great respect and with whom I have work in the past , that there be something uniquely repulsive about accuse Israel of genocide , give the event that take place on 7 October , when more jewish people perish in a pogrom than at any time since the holocaust and the second world war . the UN Security Council have vote for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza for only the remainder of Ramadan . it be almost two month since the ICJ ' s plausible genocide ruling , yet the killing , the destruction and the weaponise starvation go on . can the Minister outline what conversation he and the Foreign Secretary be have with their counterpart in the United States to ensure that the UN resolution this week be implement , and will the UK Government cease arm Israel , to ensure that the UK uphold the ICJ ' s ruling and its provisional measure ? I do not precisely recognise the hon . member ' s description of the ICJ interim ruling , but I welcome her support for resolution 2728 and the position of the British Government . on the work we be do with our counterpart , not only in America but all around the world , I can assure she that it will continue with the great vigour . no matter which way we look at it , the Government ' s backing of the one - sided UN resolution yesterday represent an abject surrender to the demand of the Hamas propaganda machine and the cynical use of the palestinian population as human shield . can the Minister explain to we how such a resolution , which give hope to the terrorist , will ever lead to the release of the hostage and ensure no repeat of the atrocity of 7 October , especially as it enable Hamas to preserve their unit , regroup and re - establish their regime ? I simply do not recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s description of resolution 2728 . it be Hamas who be use the palestinian people as a human shield in the grotesque way that we see in Rafah . I welcome the UN Security Council finally call for an immediate ceasefire , as well as for the return of all hostage , include palestinian child who be in military prison . the Minister must now indicate what enforcement measure the Government will implement to escalate the pressure to stop Israel ' s military assault , uphold the ceasefire , and ensure that emergency assistance be provide through the United Nations Relief and Works Agency to those be starve to death . I thank the hon . Lady for her support for UN resolution 2728 , which , as I set out in the statement , reflect widespread international support for Britain ' s position and the very considerable effort by our diplomat to secure a consensus . the United Nations Security Council ' s vote for an immediate ceasefire , the immediate release of all hostage and full humanitarian access in Gaza must be receive by the UK Government as an immediate push for that UN resolution to be enact . I hope that the Minister and the Government will act accordingly , because it be so necessary . rather than obfuscate on the issue , will the Minister actually condemn from the Dispatch Box the recent announcement of 800 hectare of the west bank as israeli state land ? surely this colonial - era land grab ploy , and the building of more illegal settlement , must be condemn and halt . the position of the British Government , and I believe of the official Opposition , have always be clear on illegal settlement , and I reiterate it a moment ago . I , too , warmly welcome yesterday ' s resolution , and the change in the Government ' s position that support it . as both side be now in clear conflict , with a clear breach of a United Nations Security Council resolution that be support by the UK , what be the implication for future UK arm sale to Israel ? I be extremely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his support for resolution 2728 , but there have be no change whatsoever in the position of the British Government . Britain have long be call for an immediate humanitarian pause lead to a sustainable ceasefire , and without a return to destruction , fighting and loss of life , as the fast way to get the hostage out and the aid in . that be what the resolution call for and why the United Kingdom vote yes on that text . it be a very considerable tribute to the work of british diplomat around the world and in New York . the passing of the UN Security Council resolution demand an immediate ceasefire be incredibly welcome , and the issue now face our government be what they will do to ensure it be enforce . we see overnight more israeli bombing , and more killing of palestinian civilian in Gaza . it be right that sanction be impose on extremist settler last month . if the israeli Government continue to ignore the ruling of the UN ' s high body , should our Government not be clear that severe consequence will follow , include further sanction , until Israel respect the ceasefire resolution and international law ? the hon . Gentleman will forgive I if I dissent from the language he be use , and instead seek , as the British Government have consistently do , to ensure there be a pause that allow aid to get in and the hostage to get out , and for there to be a sustainable ceasefire . that be the right approach , and one that be substantially honour in resolution 2728 , which be pass yesterday . state and party to the arm trade treaty be oblige to deny arm export if there be an overriding risk that the arm transfer could be use to commit breach of international humanitarian law . a dutch court rule on 12 February that the Government of the Netherlands must stop the export of part for the F - 35 joint strike fighter to Israel . the UK Government be also think to export part of the F - 35 under an open general export licence . will the Minister consider that under these circumstance we should stop the arm trade with Israel , and that at the very least this House need a stand committee to examine arm export ? I have long make clear that Britain have the strong regulatory regime in respect of arm export . I make clear in my response to the shadow Foreign Secretary the Government ' s view on that issue , and I have nothing furth to add to what I say then . I hear what the Secretary of State say about his pride in the principled position that he feel the Government have take with a ceasefire , but he will know that we can only defend international law if we uphold it . he have hear across the House concern that UK - make arm may be be use in Gaza , and he know full well the detail of the strategic licensing export criterion . he know that man - make famine be a violation of those human right obligation . that be why many of we be leave wonder why the Government have not suspend arm sale to Israel in light of that evidence . I hear what he say early about the process ; I understand the process he set out . he talk about review licence every quarter . one must presume , as we be come to the end of March , that this be the end of a quarter . when will we see a report publish on the matter of arm sale to Israel ? the point I make be that we publish comprehensive official statistic every quarter . that be something we will continue to do , and I have nothing to add to what I have already say about the arm regime . the hon . Lady raise the issue of famine , and she will know that the british Government be incredibly concerned about the failure to get more food into Gaza . that be why we have be pursue a maritime route , why yesterday the Royal Air Force drop some 40 tonne of food , and why we have deploy a field hospital . we will continue to do everything we can , as she would wish , to ensure that famine do not take hold in Gaza . the UN Security Council resolution be welcome , but it require action by individual member state . as well as take action on arm sale , will the UK ensure that there be no complicity with the israeli war machine in the use of UK air basis by F - 35s , or any other military co - operation with Israel as its war on Gaza continue ? secondly , will the Secretary of State ensure that the suspension of funding to UNRWA , which he recognise be the organisation well place to deliver humanitarian aid on the ground , be lift forthwith , give that it be solely base on israeli allegation that have already largely be refute ? I be not sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s final point will resonate across the House , but I be grateful to he for his support for resolution 2728 , which be pass yesterday . he will know that Britain have fully fund the money for UNRWA in accordance with its commitment , and we very much hope that the position will be clarify as a result of the two report for which we be wait by the time any additional british money would be due . the UN resolution be welcome and long overdue , give the humanitarian disaster that be unfold in Gaza , but I wish to press the Minister on the licensing of arm for export to Israel . he say that the process be robust and regularly review , imply that because no action have be take , those review have not raise any risk . I have previously ask he to condemn the many video circulate on social medium that show israeli soldier film themselves perform act that range from the unbelievably crass , such as pose on the bike of dead Gazan child , to the vilely violent , such as set fire to food store or bomb residential building — violent and potentially criminal . will the Minister say whether he have see those video , and if so do he condemn they ? do he have confidence that no british export be part of what seem to be vile and potentially criminal act on the part of the IDF ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support for United Nations resolution 2728 , which be pass yesterday . she ask whether I have see any such video , and I have not . be such video to be genuine , and be they to portray what she describe , I be sure that everyone in the House would condemn they without qualification . in today ' s statement the Minister say that we need to offer a political horizon to the Palestinians , and he be ask that while those whose family , friend and neighbour have not already be kill be be bomb out of the shelter they make after be bomb out of their house and home . surely only an immediate permanent ceasefire will afford the people of Palestine the opportunity to lift their eye to an optimistic political horizon . the Government have set out a clear vision , together with our partner , which we be seek to drive forward so that when this catastrophic conflict be over , everyone may focus on that political track . I remind the hon . Gentleman that it be after the second intifada that progress at Oslo be make , and we must hope that that might be possible once again . on what be happen in Gaza , I draw his attention to my early remark that it be absolutely appalling that Hamas be cynically use the good people of Gaza as a human shield , as they continue to incarcerate the hostage who should be release today . I add my voice to those of colleague who have express significant and severe concern about arm manufacturing and export to Israel in the current context . I meet a number of sole remain member of palestinian family who have be wipe out in Gaza . I mention that not to highlight the appalling tragedy but to focus our mind on what it mean . one of they have lose all her relative — more than 50 — and be the only one of her family leave . to echo the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , will the Minister reassure we on what he be do with the international community to ensure that resolution 2728 be apply by Israel and Hamas and that we get aid into this appalling situation ? I thank the hon . Lady for what she say about the price of conflict in appal individual suffering . everyone in the House will agree with she in that respect . on arm export licensing , I have nothing to add to what I say early . she will , like many , welcome 2728 , because it express , with the full authority of the United Nations , a pathway ahead . Britain will do everything it can to make sure that that pathway be pursue . Israel have widespread control of the border of Gaza and much of the land within it . give that be the fact of the situation on the ground , be we not then entitle to assume that the restriction on the flow of aid into Gaza be deliberate on the part of Israel ? should that not therefore make we review the sale of arm to Israel ? in term of the restriction to which the hon . Gentleman refer , a little early I set out how I believe those restriction can be mitigate , particularly in respect of the opening hour at various crossing point . there be also the need for more visa , some 50 of which I mention be pende . he may rest assure that the Government use our very strong relationship in the region with Egypt and Israel to propagate the case for more aid and more humanitarian relief get in by all mean . we also do more than that , because we be drop food from the air only yesterday , thank to the work of the Royal Air Force . we will do more of that if we can not get more in through the road route . the Minister will remember that last week , in the previous statement , I mention a briefing I have attend with other member that be lead by lead aid organisation , include Oxfam , Islamic Relief and Action against Hunger . they detail the scale of the suffering and the scale of the man - make famine . the Minister have be on his foot for more than an hour now , and he have mention all the different way we be get aid in , but the reality be that only 137 truck enter Gaza yesterday , accord to Oxfam . we know that pre - October it be 500 truck a day . UNRWA be unmatched in its aid distribution . the Minister have say that . do the Minister not agree that a way to mitigate this suffering , be to restore the funding to UNRWA now ? the funding to UNRWA from Britain have not stop ; we be pay up effectively until the end of April . let I reassure the hon . Lady that as soon we have see the two report to which I have refer , I very much hope that , subject to the necessary change be make , we will indeed be able to commit to the future funding that she and I would like to see in the right circumstance . it be become increasingly apparent that Israel have no intention of comply with international law . it be refuse entry to International Criminal Court investigator ; it have flat out deny the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice ; it have not adhere to the legally bind order from the ICJ advisory opinion of 26 February ; and , it have ignore other UN resolution call for access to humanitarian aid . what else can the Government do to put pressure on Israel to adhere to international law ? as I have set out previously to the House , we have previously assess that Israel be commit and capable of comply with international humanitarian law , and that be keep under review . be there to be any change in the position and view of the British Government in that respect , we would inform the House . on that matter , the Government do sometimes publish legal position statement . accord to the Cabinet Office , on 11 December 2023 the Government publish a statement of the legal position in relation to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , and it publish a similar legal position statement when introduce the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill in July 2022 . will the Minister publish such a statement set out any breach of international law by any party in the Israel - Gaza war ? the hon . Gentleman , who be an enormously distinguished lawyer , be well aware that we do not disclose our internal legal advice , and that have consistently be the position of government of both the major party . we have no plan to change that position . the Minister have repeatedly say that international humanitarian law must be adhere to , but those word be meaningless unless they be follow by action , so what consequence will the british Government introduce for any country find guilty of commit war crime by the ICC , such as by the deliberate withholding of food and aid to another country ? the hon . Lady invite I to qualify or add to the word I have already use to answer that and similar question . I be sorry to disappoint she , but I be not go to do so . for what will soon be six month , this Government have repeatedly reject call for an immediate ceasefire from mps and aid agency , so I welcome the change position take at the Security Council yesterday . however , I be confuse by this insistence that the Government ' s position have not change . can the Minister clarify that he be call for an immediate ceasefire , that the UN resolution be bind and must be implement immediately , and that there be consequence for non - compliance ? any dither and delay , include with UNRWA , mean more innocent civilian kill and more child starve . the hon . Lady be not right in what she say about there be a change in the Government position , for the reason that I have repeatedly set out . the United Kingdom have long be call for an immediate humanitarian pause lead to a sustainable ceasefire , and that be what resolution 2728 seek to deliver . I understand what the deputy Foreign Secretary say about want both side to acknowledge United Nations Security Council resolution 2728 , but he must know that the people in Gaza face starvation , go to bed every night wonder whether it will be their last , do not have the power to bring the hostage back . the people who have the power to bring the hostage back be sit in five - star hotel in Qatar , so it be useless to allow the aid for people in Gaza to be block by Israel , and for they to continue to be on the end of a bombardment , while somehow suggest that they be master of their own destiny . will he say what this Government will do in the event that Israel continue to ignore a bind United Nations Security Council resolution ? the remedy for what the hon . Gentleman so eloquently describe in his question rest with Hamas and the negotiator in Qatar . if they release the hostage and a pause be agree , that will lead to the resolution of all the point that he have so rightly make . I have hear what the Minister say about not release legal advice , which be clearly disappointing for member in this House . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) have already say , the Government have issue legal advice in the past , and this be a matter of great interest to my constituent . if a country take offensive action contrary to a UN resolution call for an immediate ceasefire , I would not need to see the legal advice because that would clearly be a breach of UK arm export licence . I note that the hon . Gentleman be disappoint that we will not release the advice , but I can only point to the precedent to which I refer early — one that have be strongly endorse on both side of the House . the appalling death of child in Gaza have bring condemnation from around the world and , of course , immense psychological trauma to their family and friend . on 27 February , I ask the Minister whether he would recognise that the killing of 12 , 000 child show clear evidence of collective punishment . the Minister do not answer my question . that figure have rise with the death of a further 1 , 000 child , so will he now answer my question and recognise that the killing of 13 , 000 child show clear evidence of collective punishment ? no , I will not do that , but I hope that the hon . Lady will join I in call for Hamas to release all the hostage they be hold as swiftly as possible , so that the other point in the statement , which I hope I have set out clearly to the House , can be achieve . the deputy Foreign Secretary rightly refer to the devastating and grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza and the urgent need to increase the delivery of aid by land , sea and air . he mention that the first delivery of UK aid by the Royal Air Force take place yesterday . do he anticipate that future air drop will increase in frequency until such time as the barrier to the delivery of aid via land be lift ? the hon . Gentleman be right to identify the delivery of aid from the air , for numerous reason that hon . member will understand , as suboptimal . the key way of get urgently need aid into Gaza be by truck and by road , but need must , which be why the RAF be able to deliver some 40 tonne yesterday . if the position continue as it be , Britain expect to get aid into Gaza by sea and air as well as by land . the Minister say there be precedent on the non - publication of legal advice . there be a precedent set — you and I be here , Mr Deputy Speaker — in the debate on the Iraq war , when the legal advice be fully publish . that be to provide protection for the Government and Members of the House in their deliberation , as well as to provide advice . do he not appreciate that we now have the Security Council resolution and the ICJ decision , which mean that any action by a Netanyahu Government against those decision and that judgment will actually be portray as war crime ? any Government that supply arm to that regime therefore can be equally accuse of war crime , and any Member of the House support the Government in those action be open to that charge as well . do he not appreciate what member be say to he about the rule of law and the importance of the House abide by the rule of law ? the Government be second to none in seek to uphold the rule of law , and that point have be consistently reiterate from this Dispatch Box . the right hon . Gentleman raise once again the issue of the Government publish legal advice and cite in aid the advice publish by the then Labour Government in respect of the Iraq war . I do not think that be a wise avenue to go down . the Armed Forces Minister have state that israeli military personnel have be train alongside UK armed force . as a result , we clearly want to know what purpose that have , what operation those individual have be involve in , whether they have impede the delivery of aid or , indeed , have perpetrate suffering against the people of Gaza , and how that comply with international humanitarian law . the hon . Lady will not be surprised to hear I say that the british military force always comply with international humanitarian law and be absolutely require to do so . I be sure she will note , like I , that when it come to the issue of target and military operation , just as Britain use extensive military lawyer and legal advice in make those decision , so too do the israeli Government . we desperately need an immediate ceasefire , the immediate release of all hostage and full humanitarian access in Gaza , as the UN Security Council resolution now call for . I recently meet medical aid for Palestinians , which talk about the severe difficulty with rule on aid . more widely , we know that aid agency have report that the list of good allow into Gaza by the israeli Government be difficult to access and can change without warning . will the Minister put pressure on the israeli Government to publish an official list and one that include all the nutritional and medical aid that be need ? the british Government and the department within the Foreign Office that deal with humanitarian aid and planning look all the time at all those matter . the hon . Gentleman raise specifically the issue of medicine , and I hope he will be pleased to see that Britain deploy a field hospital on 15 March fund by UK aid under UK - Med . as I mention early , UK and local medic will be work there and will be treat — fairly shortly , I hope — 100 patient a day . I thank the Minister for his statement and his answer . will he confirm what discussion have take place and what action have be agree to ascertain whether there be any assistance we can provide to ensure that Israel be in a position to safely end the conflict , have achieve security for their nation and their people ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . he will know that it be a central aim of Government policy to ensure that both Israel and Palestine can live safely and securely side by side behind secure border — the implementation of the two - state solution . everything the Government do be design to try to advance that objective , which I know he strongly support . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Minister repeatedly say that neither have he see , nor be he in possession of , Catherine Colonna ' s interim report , suggest instead that it have only be deliver to the United Nations in New York . could he clarify whether he or his official be in receipt of the interim report , have see it , have have a read - out of it , or have be make aware of its content ? if any of that be true , why have it not be deliver to the House , particularly give that this be the last sitting day before recess in this financial year ? it be hugely important that the House be aware of that . Mr O ' Hara , that be not a point of order for the Chair ; it be an endeavour to extend the question on the statement . if the Minister wish to respond , I will allow he to do so . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . let I reassure the hon . gentleman . he rightly say that today be the last day before the House rise for the Easter recess . that be why , in discussion with the usual channel , the Government offer this statement today , which I very much hope he welcome . my understanding be that the interim report from the former french Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna be receive by the Secretary - General ' s office yesterday . it be my hope and expectation that the British Parliament representative at the United Nations in New York may be able to have sight of it today , but neither I nor official in London have have sight of the report as thing stand . on member ' behalf , I thank the Minister of State and those on the Opposition Front Bench for remain for well over an hour and take the relevant question . build Safety with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the continue work to fix building with unsafe cladding across England , and the Government ' s increase determination to enforce against those who fail to take responsibility . since the beginning of 2023 , there have be a step change in all aspect of remediation in England , from a limited programme to full coverage of all residential building over 11 metre ; from developer not take responsibility to their now be responsible for £ 3 billion of remediation across more than 1 , 500 building ; from just over 1 , 600 building in remediation programme last year to over 4 , 000 now ; from 783 building have start or complete work in February 2023 to over 1 , 800 now ; and from only 461 have complete last February to 863 now . every month more building be identify , and more be begin and complete work . that mean that for some , albeit not all , the end be in sight . from the start , we have prioritise the remediation of the high risk building . ninety - eight per cent of high - rise building with the most dangerous Grenfell - style aluminium composite material cladding have either start or complete work . of the 10 occupy building remain , two will start work this month and enforcement be be take against a further six . substantial progress can also be see for building over 18 metre , with over half of know building have either start or complete work . the much more extensive work require for building between 11 metre and 18 metre be well under way . since the full launch of the cladding safety scheme last July , over 400 building in the scheme have live application . Grant funding agreement have be complete or be be sign for 152 building , and work have start on site for the first building . a further 4 , 000 building be be investigate and , where necessary , will be invite to apply to the scheme in the month ahead . further transparency be be bring to the social housing sector . register provider report that work have start on 525 building as of the end of November 2023 , up from 394 at the end of August 2023 . a further 200 have now be complete . for the first time , last Thursday we publish detailed information on a provider - by - provider basis , which will be update quarterly to ensure that resident can track what their individual provider be do on remediation . while many building be be fix or , well still , have complete remediation , there remain a reduce core of building owner who continue to hold up remediation . that be unacceptable . the Government continue to do whatever be necessary to change that . all building owner must step up , do the right thing and fix their building without delay , or face the consequence of their inaction . the Government be lead the way on enforcement , with strategic intervention by our recovery strategy unit target the most egregious actor who be unwilling to make their building safe . the RSU be key to force Wallace Estates to agree to four remediation order , ensure that 400 leaseholder will be safe in their home . our legal action force Grey GR , a subsidiary of Railpen , to fix building safety defect at Galbraith House within three week . the first trial against Grey GR for Vista Tower in Stevenage be imminent . nine remediation contribution order be take out against three further organisation last week , include developer , to recover fund pay out by both taxpayer and leaseholder to fix building . we will continue to take action against those who do not step up to their responsibility . colleague in the fire and rescue service and local council be critical to the fight to ensure that resident be safe , and we be work with they to increase action . many council and fire and rescue service be do a good job , but some need to do more . over the last year , the additional funding that we have provide for council have mean that the pace of enforcement have step up markedly . council be inform we of enforcement action at a rate of four per week , compare with one per month in 2022 , and we expect that to accelerate far . to support that , today we be publish our first league table , outline where enforcement be be take so that resident can see exactly what be happen and where . we will regularly update the league table to ensure that the public remain sighted on their authority ’ enforcement activity . our focus now be on more , and more consistent , enforcement . last week , I meet the Building Safety Regulator and sector leader to discuss how we can build a share plan to increase the pace of remediation far . today , I be announce a number of initiative to boost enforcement : a furth £ 6 million to council enforcement team , the development of a new regulatory protocol for great consistency and a new fund that partner can access for legal support in complex case . for a task as big as this , remediation of building with issue be always go to take time . there be no doubt that in some part of the sector it be still take far too long . yet already , almost 60 , 000 homeowner have peace of mind that remediation be complete , and a further 300 , 000 dwelling be well on the way to the same . [ Official Report , 15 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) every week that go by , more be do : there be more start and more completion and , vitally , more of those who be unwilling to do the right thing be be expose . we will not stop until we have fix cladding issue . today , I hope the House can see the real and accelerate progress that be be make . I call the shadow Minister . let I start by thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . I must be clear that I do not share his enthusiasm that the end of the building safety crisis be somehow near , and neither do campaigner up and down the country , include end our Cladding Scandal . just last week , new Government figure , to which the Minister refer , show that only 21 % of high - rise block have be fully — I stress , fully — remediate . we be now nearly seven year on from the Grenfell fire , the tragedy where 72 people lose their life , yet hundred of thousand of family and individual be stick in flat with dangerous , flammable defect , whether clad , miss fire break or wooden balcony . the toxicity of this crisis go on and on . everybody deserve to feel safe in their own home . despite year of reactive policy from the Government , and now billion of pound commit through a plethora of fund to fix unsafe home , progress remain painfully slow for far too many . all of that mean that far too many people be live in fear of their life every day . what those family need be action now to speed up remediation and to hold all those responsible for the building safety crisis to account . action be need for all those trap in unsafe building face eye - water bill , whether for the black hole of service charge or for insurance premium . they simply have no control over their future . action be need to let the resident of these building finally turn the page . I be disappointed that today ' s statement be not much more than a rehashing of statistic and data point that be put in the public domain last Thursday . I be particularly disappointed that it do not include the second staircase guidance , which be desperately need . the Minister will know that the absence of that guidance have hold up the construction of thousand of safe home across the country . in London alone , the Mayor have say that the botched implementation have stop at least 38 , 000 home from be build . during the delay , key design detail have be miss , and both house builder and local authority have be leave in limbo . what be more , some site have completely grind to a halt . what exactly be take so long ? how many building nationwide do the Minister estimate have be hold up ? it would be useful if the Minister could provide an update on the position on personal emergency evacuation plan , which many campaigner continue to push . move onto the specific of today ' s announcement , I welcome the new initiative to boost enforcement , but they would more effective if they be part of a broad strategy instead of be reactive , piecemeal announcement . the initiative be just a drop in the ocean of what be need . while I welcome the support for council enforcement team , the Minister and the Government simply can not pass the buck . the Department need to play a more active and robust role . I welcome the new regulatory protocol for great consistency , but I would like to see the detail and a timeframe . the Minister rightfully call out some owner and developer , but will he also call out the manufacturer and make all those responsible for the building safety crisis pay ? finally , I want to mention the scale of the problem with insurance premium , which the Minister will have see report in the Independent early this week . it be constantly raise with I and I know it be raise with the Minister , too . he will be aware of allegation of profiteer and the many thousand of pound be pay in premium , in some case go up by 1 , 000 % , even when building have be remediate and make safe . he previously mention pool scheme . the industry have put forward its own scheme , which will go live on 1 April . resident and campaigner be not convinced that it will bring premium down , so I would like an update from the Minister today . the Minister will not need remind that today ' s announcement be just one cog that need to be turn to solve the building safety crisis . I look forward to work constructively with he to do the right thing for the hundred of thousand of people still trap in the building safety crisis . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . I welcome the element of his remark that confirm that we be make progress . I will comment on some of the other in a moment . I take it from his reference to the statement be just a " rehash " of stat that he be pretty content that the stat be move in the right direction . indeed , part of the point of today ' s statement be to highlight that we have make significant progress in recent month and over the past year , while still recognise , as I do in my opening remark , that there be much more to do . there be clearly actor who be not do the right thing , and we be try to take systematic , consistent and coherent action against they . I just caution the hon . Gentleman that I do not indicate that the end of the building safety issue be near , despite both of we share the desire for that to come as soon as possible . I do , however , say that progress be be make . to get to the end point , we must make progress . I think what the statement demonstrate , just like the write ministerial statement in October , be that we continue as a Government and as a country to make progress . the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight that this have take time , but if we look at individual fund , we can see that those that be open the early be now come to a conclusion . for the ACM fund , 98 % of know building be remediate or on the way to be remediate . that be open in 2018 - 19 . for the building safety fund for building over 18 metre , over half be either complete or on the way to be complete . that be open in 2020 . so , again , there be progress . these thing take time . they be often very complicated . unfortunately , we often have to drag freeholder to do the right thing , for example to encourage owner of building between 11 metre and 18 metre to get involve in the fund . we be do that as actively as we can . there be work to do , but further progress be be make . the hon . Gentleman raise the specific question of second staircase . the statement be an update on build safety , but I will extend the scope slightly . we have commit , have already provide some information in recent month , to provide further information on second staircase by the end of the month . I can confirm that that will occur this week . on enforcement , I gently say that it be absolutely incorrect to talk about reactive , piecemeal announcement . if we go down the list of what be be announce in the league table today , we can see clear evidence of progress be make all across the country : London Fire Brigade , 94 statutory enforcement notice ; Greater Manchester , 32 ; East Sussex , 26 ; West Yorkshire , 14 ; and Hampshire and the Isle of Wight , 11 . I could go on and on and on . there be multiple page here where we can see progress . the Government be make the information as transparent as possible , so that resident who be impact can understand where their individual local body be and hold they to account where necessary . finally , on insurance premium , the hon . Gentleman and I share a great deal of focus on try to make thing move as quickly as possible . I completely agree with he that progress need to be make . I be pleased that the industry have announce the launch of its industry - lead insurance premium scheme , from 1 April next week . bluntly , it have take too long . I have spend an awful lot of time over the past few month encourage the sector to do that . from the moment it open , we will monitor extremely carefully what the impact will be on the most affected building . I hope we will be able to say more about that in the come month . I encourage colleague who have insurance concern — many member in the Chamber have already raise they with I — to continue to raise they . where remediation be under way or have conclude , we would expect some form of accommodation to be make against the premium in those building unless there be a good reason not to do so . if hon . member have individual example of where that have not occur , I would be very grateful to receive they . I call the Father of the House . it be some year since our late colleague , David Amess , lead a few of we who be interested in fire safety even before Grenfell . we must remember that in the month after Grenfell , everyone back away think that residential leaseholder would be the only people who would have to bear the £ 10 billion to £ 15 billion cost of remediation — and that be before we know all about the other fire defect , which our building control standard and inspection have allow to accumulate over the decade . we should all hang our head . the Minister rightly talk about need more transparency . I say in pass , although it be a very serious point , that anyone who look at page 3 of the Financial Times today , on the possible future policy on ground rent , will see an indication that people who own such building — the pension fund , the Long Harbours of this world , the Tchenguizes ' interest and other — ought to be look at their own social and environmental responsibility , get rid of ground rent and spend their money on make building safe for everyone to live in . clad group and leaseholder ' group deserve praise , as do the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership and the present chair of the Government ' s Leasehold Advisory Service , who can point out some of the thing that have not yet be do . this be an interim statement and we look forward to hear more , whether by write or oral statement , but may I say to the Minister that the one group that seem to have be let off be the insurance company who back the developer , architect , surveyor , builder and component supplier ? the Government should find a way to take together the potential claim of all the resident , tenant , leaseholder and owner of property , and have a roundtable with insurance company and get the billion of pound out of they that they would have to pay if it go to court , without pay the lawyer half the money . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment . he have have a long - stand interest in this issue and in leasehold on a broad basis . he be absolutely right to highlight the tireless work of so many people across the country , include the group and organisation that come together , both on the leasehold side , which he be involve in , and on the cladding side . they do not want to have to come together and spend so much time to make progress and end our cladding scandal , but they work incredibly hard to ensure that we make progress . I be grateful for all their constructive work with we . it be absolutely the case that more need to be do , but as the statement outline , week by week and month by month , we be make progress . I hope we can do more in the month ahead . finally , my hon . friend be a long - stand campaigner on leasehold and highlight his thought very clearly . no decision have be take . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have be clear about his own personal view . I know my hon . friend ' s view will have be hear as a part of the discussion . one of my priority in Battersea be to ensure that everyone have a safe , decent and affordable home . however , seven year on from the devastation of the Grenfell fire , many of my constituent be still live in unsafe building . government support have so far be available for building 11 metre or over . it beggar belief that that be the case . can the Minister be clear about what the Government be do to ensure that prioritisation for funding be allocate accord to risk , so that all household be protect , include the many in my constituency that be below 11 metre ? with the great respect , I do not think it do beggar belief that a line have be draw at 11 metre . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady be chuntere from a sedentary position ; I have hope that she would listen to my answer in the first instance before make comment on it . this be a relatively recognised and relatively long - stand position . follow the commitment give by my predecessor back in 2022 , when we have receive concern about building under 11 metre we have take action . we have look at those building and have commission report when that have be necessary , and in the overwhelming majority of case it have subsequently be confirm that they do not require remediation . if any member have outstanding concern about building less than 11 metre high , I encourage they to get in touch and we will happily look at they in more detail , because if the trajectory that we have see in the case that have be raise with we so far already be follow , it be highly likely that life - critical safety concern will not be visible once we have do so . there be a complex interplay between what the Minister have say today about build safety , cladding and remediation and the agenda relate to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which , of course , many of we in the Chamber be still right behind . will the Minister please reassure we that the Government as a whole remain committed to this vital transformative and conservative agenda ? as the Minister himself have say from that Dispatch Box , there be no prouder word in the english language than " freeholder " . we want to see more freeholder liberate from the tyranny of the ground rent grazer and some of the deep - pocket people in this so - call sector who be now try to make out , if the reporting be accurate , that if we press ahead with our reform to reduce ground rent to a peppercorn , the whole sector will be destabilise and the Minister ' s vital work of remediation will somehow be affect . I , like many other , do not accept that assertion in any shape or form — it be , of course , complete nonsense — but will the Minister please reassure I , and many other , that we will continue to reform this sector and liberate the leaseholder so that they can own their property , while also continue to make they safe ? my hon . friend be right to say that the work that have be put into the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , and the measure that we have introduce in it , will be transformative for leaseholder . I know that , and I know she know that , because she be the person who put in the work in the first place , and I pay tribute to what she do in this role previously . my hon . friend be also right to draw attention to the link between those who have be impact by clad and leaseholder in general . it be through reform such as those in the Bill that we will be able to bring even more transparency , include on insurance , which the hon . member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) rightly raise . that apply not just to leaseholder who be impact by clad remediation , but to leaseholder in general . we will ensure that they know what they be pay for and can fully recognise whether the arrangement be fair or not . I thank the Minister for meet leaseholder from Barrier Point in my constituency last week . during a Zoom call last night , leaseholder from Waterside Park make it clear that although the original builder and the current freeholder have agree on the specification of the work to be carry out , the work itself be be hold up by quibble between their respective lawyer over detail . be there anything that the Minister or his Department can do to knock head together and get this long - await work under way ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for highlight the inherent challenge that may feature in process that involve a lot of actor , a lot of complexity and often a lot of money , but it be absolutely the Government ' s view that they must proceed as expeditiously as possible and that the organisation and actor involve in they should not hold they up unnecessarily . there must be a reasonable accommodation for reasonable discussion , but the overarching objective to ensure that building be remediate , and to allow leaseholder to get on with their life even more than they be able to do at present , be paramount . if there be particular concern or particular issue from which the right hon . Gentleman , or any other Member , think we can learn in order to improve the policy , I shall be keen to hear about they . the cladding safety scheme be meet the cost of address fire safety risk associate with clad on residential building over 11 metre high , but that do not include low - rise building . the Minister have be contact by Barnet Council follow an investigation of a fire at a low - rise residential property last year , which establish that 459 property in my constituency constitute a category 1 hazard as define by the Housing Act 2004 . the council say that the remedial work will cost each homeowner £ 23 , 000 , an unaffordable amount for many of my constituent . while low - rise building pose less of an escape hazard than high - rise building in the event of a fire , the widespread existence of clad defect be a result of regulatory and industry failure and be not cause by action take by my constituent . do the Minister agree that that be simply not fair , and will he draw up proposal as a matter of urgency to assist my constituent in this endeavour ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the matter of low - rise block . accord to the evidence that the Department have see when look at property less than 11 metre high , it remain the case that the overwhelming majority do not require fire safety remediation , but I should be happy to meet my hon . friend to talk about that in more detail . it be important that we continue to highlight the low likelihood of a problem such as we be discuss today , but it be also important that there be route to redress . the extension of the Defective Premises Act 1972 provide an opportunity in that regard . it be important for resident , leaseholder and other to be aware of such avenue , and I should be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss those further as well . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for the meeting I have with he and his staff recently about an issue face my constituent . it concern Galliard Homes and resident of Drayton Park in my constituency , who have be deny access to necessary information . Galliard Homes claim that the fire safety regulation have be adhere to , but that be hotly dispute by just about everybody else . as a result the resident be pay vastly enhance insurance rate and be unable to move , unable to sell their home , and unable to move on with their life in any way . that be cause unbelievable level of stress , of which many member be well aware from event in their own constituency . the Minister be engage with the issue and fully understand it . may I ask he to do two thing ? first , will he release all the information about the fire safety assessment so that an air of transparency surround all this ? secondly , will he ensure that the developer , Galliard Homes , step up to the plate and do the remedial work that be necessary to bring down insurance cost and enable the resident to move on and get on with their life ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for highlight this issue , and I be also grateful for the meeting that he arrange with the representative of the leaseholder and the time that he give for we to go through it . it be very useful to work through individual case : although they be often the trickiest , the knotty and the most challenging , it be important for we to understand the policy implication . let I say to the right hon . gentleman — without go into the detail of the individual property , which I should be happy to discuss with he separately — that in general we seek to be as transparent as we possibly can , hence the publication of some of the additional datum today . we remain committed to make progress on both individual building and property as a whole , and I hope that both the property and the developer that the right hon . Gentleman have highlight will make progress as soon as possible . I thank my hon . friend for his update , but it appear from his statement that there be still two tall building with ACM cladding on which no work be go on and on which the Government have take no action ; I should be grateful if he could clarify that . another issue that arise directly from his statement be that there be now 4 , 000 home between 11 and 18 metre high whose resident will probably not be able to get a mortgage , insure their property or sell they . will he speed up the process of assess those block so that the resident can feel safe , and if work be require on they will he ensure that it be carry out speedily , so that home be make safe for the resident and for whoever they sell they to ? I be grateful for the question . on my hon . friend ' s first point , there be 11 building that have not start or finish their ACM remediation . one be not occupy . of the remain 10 , work will commence on two in the next few week . eight building will be remediate at a further date , and the remain two have enforcement action be take by the relevant authority . although I would like the number to go down to zero at the early possible opportunity , the situation be well than it be when we provide the update in October , and I expect the number to continue to move on a positive trajectory in the month and week ahead . on my hon . friend ' s point about the 4 , 000 building that be be review , we provide a further 1 , 000 potential lead to Homes England , which be lead on the cladding safety scheme , a number of month ago . a significant number be find to not require any remediation . although I can not comment on where the 4 , 000 will land , it be likely that a large number of they will not require remediation in the end , so I encourage resident not to worry about the number , but to see what come out of the process . since December 2022 , we have also take action to make sure that we be start to separate the need for remediation on property from people ' s ability to get on with their life . the mortgage sector have be free up to allow people to take mortgage , to remortgage and to move property when big life event happen , and we hope that that will continue . I be monitor , on a month - by - month basis , the large bank and building society that be provide mortgage , and I can see that progress be be make . Master Gunner Place in my constituency be in need of remedial work , and the resident have be supply with a letter of comfort from the developer to say that it will cover the cost . my constituent have write to I to say that his service charge have go up by 360 % in the last eight year . in the last year alone , it have go up by 107 % . he be now pay a £ 6 , 000 - a - year service charge , even though hampton say that the average cost in London for a similar - sized property be £ 1 , 700 . my constituent say that the additional cost be build safety - relate . what do the Minister have to say about that ? can anything be do to stop developer recoup their cost in this way ? the first thing we need to do be bring great transparency to service charge , which be what we be try to do through the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . assume that progress be make in the other place , I hope that it will be on the statute book as quickly as possible , and then it will be clear exactly where such cost come from . the second thing that be that our colleague in the Financial Conduct Authority be bring in the fair charge regime to make sure there be no inappropriate commission and that , from an insurance perspective , exchange be not under way with broker , which will hopefully reduce the cost . the third thing be the industry - lead insurance scheme , which should hopefully bring down insurance cost for those who be most expose . however , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : we need great transparency and a great understanding of where these cost be go , and we need to make sure that freeholder and manage agent be follow the law , which be very clear about the kind of cost that can and can not be allocate . if there be something specific about the building he mention that the Government can look at , I will happily talk to he separately . I thank the Opposition Front Bencher and the Minister for their participation in the statement . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I would like to raise a point of order regard last night ' s debate on the motion to appoint an act parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . follow an intervention from the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) , I wish to express the opposition ' s concern . at the root of our concern be the lack of information on why no . 10 have not provide its seal of approval , when it have be cite that the House should lead on the role . we be tell that the Prime Minister have have the nomination since January . as the Minister say , the process must be follow thoroughly and diligently , but some question remain . what process have yet to be complete ? have a representative from no . 10 and the chair of the appointment committee meet to discuss the delay ? if so , what be their conclusion ? give that Parliament be the lead on this appointment , when will member receive an update ? as member from across the House liaise with the ombudsman regard constituency query , this issue be important . Mr Deputy Speaker , could you please advise on whether you have receive notice of an upcoming ministerial statement on this matter in the first week back after the Easter recess ? that would be three month after no . 10 receive the committee ' s recommendation . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . would it be in order to reveal the identity of the person concern ? I notice that that do not happen yesterday , but it be well know who that person be and how well qualified he be for the post for which he have be recommend . I thank both hon . gentleman for their point of order , and I thank the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) for give notice of his . while the House Administration do take the lead — rise — order . I be on my foot . while the House Administration do take the lead in the appointment process , it be not a matter for the Chair of the House . the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent have put his point on the record , and I be sure that the House authority will be able to advise he on how to pursue the matter far . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the law around marriage be part of my portfolio as a shadow Justice Minister , but I would like to seek your advice this afternoon — don ' t worry , it be not marital advice that I require . give my portfolio , would it be in order for I to invite you and perhaps Members from across the House to congratulate a very special couple , who will mark their 70th wedding anniversary tomorrow ? they be particularly special , as they be my own mum and dad , Jean and John Cunningham , who be marry all those year ago . I be extremely proud of they for reach this remarkable milestone , and I be pleased that I have be able to share this news with the House . hear , hear . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be outrageously out of order — [ Laughter . ] but I be equally sure that the whole House will want to associate themselves with his remark about his mum and dad . I add my personal congratulation as well . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . last Thursday , the Minister of State for Northern Ireland , the right hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , make a statement announce the laying of regulation for the implementation of the Windsor framework , which he state be part of the Government ' s commitment to safeguard the Union — although I think the two thing be contradictory , give that the Windsor framework actually divide the Union . in his statement , he seek to justify the fact that Northern Ireland would be subject to some aspect of EU law , and he give the example of its exclusion from the ban on live export of animal , which I oppose in this House . in his statement , the Minister claim that the Government have offer to establish a sectoral roundtable to consider analysis of the propose trade ban , but this invitation have not yet be take up by any of those propose the ban . I be the one who move the motion in the House . the Minister in the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs have write to I to suggest have a roundtable with the Ulster Farmers Union , and he indicate that the Government have statistic that show why Northern Ireland should be exclude from the ban . I write back to he on 30 January , ask for that information to facilitate the discussion at the roundtable . despite that , the Minister claim that there be no response give , so he give the impression that I be not prepared to challenge , debate or discuss the implementation of EU law in Northern Ireland . I want to know how that can be correct . I have correct it on the record today , but I would like the Minister to correct the wrong information that he give in his statement . it be quite clear that a letter go to the DEFRA Minister to which he have not respond , either by supply information or by set up a date for a meeting so that it can be make clear that there be no unwillingness to discuss the implementation of EU law in Northern Ireland with the relevant Minister . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give at least some notice of his point of order , although I have to say that he have go rather wide than the information with which I be originally provide . I hope that he inform the Minister that he intend to refer to he in the House . indicate assent . thank you . that be not actually a matter for the Chair , but the right hon . Member have put his case on the record . Bill Presented Telecommunications Infrastructure ( requirement to Share Apparatus ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Emma Hardy present a Bill to require provider of electronic communication network to grant access to their apparatus to other such provider in certain circumstance ; to prohibit the installation of new electronic communication apparatus where service can be provide by share apparatus ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 21 June and to be print ( Bill 196 ) . Disposal of Waste ( Advertising and Penalty Provision ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in Bill to make provision about the advertising of waste disposal service ; to require local authority to issue fix penalty notice under section 34 of the Environment Act 1990 in certain circumstance ; and for connected purpose . we need a zero - tolerance approach to the criminal element in our society who be turn our neighbourhood and rural beauty spot into rubbish tip . no long should our inner city , suburb , town , village , and rural lane be see as dump ground for illegal waste . we need to build on the work we have already do on tackle fly - tipping and put the tipper out of business . shockingly , there be over 1 million incidence fly - tipping every year . government and local council spend hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money every year on clean up illegal waste site across the country . it be a blight that not only tarnish the beauty of our landscape but inflict profound harm on local environment and present many risk to public health . fly - tipping range from household item to industrial waste . it be discard at well carelessly , but sometimes very deliberately in our forest , field and riverside , and even in densely populate urban area . first and foremost , let we acknowledge the environmental and human toll of fly - tipping . toxin and pollutant contaminate the environment , and wildlife suffer as animal be expose to hazardous material . furthermore , fly - tipping pose a significant threat to public health . dump waste can contain harmful chemical and often hazardous material . these pollutant leach into the environment , contaminate the air we breathe , the water we drink and the soil that sustain we . all of this carry the risk of illness , disease and infection , not just to human but to domestic animal , pet and wildlife . this be a vicious cycle , and we need to break it . fly - tipping also blight neighbourhood and the urban environment . it drive down property value , discourage investment , and create an environment for crime . the unsightly mess leave behind by fly - tipper create a sense of neglect and decay , decrease any sense of local pride and foster a culture of apathy and resentment . I be sick to death of the mindless idiot who dump their rubbish on Peterborough ' s street . fly - tipping be see in both rural and urban area , and it be simply not fair on hard - work people that their neighbourhood be constantly the victim of this appalling behaviour . moreover , the cost of clean up illegally dump waste fall on those taxpayer , divert resource that could be well spend on essential service and infrastructure . what can we do about this pervasive problem ? of course , it begin with raise awareness and foster a sense of accountability . we must educate our community about the consequence of fly - tipping and instil a collective commitment to responsible waste management . People want to take pride in their area , but as well as education there must be a much high degree of deterrence . local authority must enforce the exist stringent law against illegal dumping , impose severe penalty on perpetrator and deter future violation . furthermore , we must invest in accessible and affordable waste disposal service , provide viable alternative to illegal dumping . at the same time , we must ensure that these service for dispose waste legally be properly regulate . if I go on the internet , I would find hundred of service that would take my rubbish away for I , but how do I know where it be actually go ? who be to say that the company I have pay to dispose of my waste will not just drive five minute down the road and dump it in a field ? the problem be that consumer do not always know who be qualified to do what , often through no fault of their own . they just want their waste take away as soon as possible . this can lead to non - register company operate illegally and dump household good . the Government ' s own statistic be that 68 % of all those advertising waste disposal be not register and be therefore trade illegally in newspaper , online and in shop window . even political activist fall foul of this . I have a lot of fun when a large number of " vote labour " poster appear on the private land of a business in Peterborough back in 2022 , but it portray the serious point that this political activist be a victim of the criminality behind those advert . at this point , I would like to recognise Martin Montague and Jo Smith of ClearWaste , who be sit with we in the Gallery today . Martin and Jo have be tireless advocate for action on fly - tipping for over five year , and the fly - tipping app ClearWaste have gather significant attention and have become a top 10 app . if member have not get it , take a look . it be one of the simple way to ensure that you be use a licensed waste removal organisation , and you can also report fly - tipping on it . my Bill will require the display of a valid waste transfer licence for all waste removal service advertisement up front . this would far significantly limit the avenue for illegal operator and would help people not to unwittingly use illegal operator and unintentionally contribute to the scourge of fly - tipping . the Government have take significant action over the last few year . maximum penalty have be increase , and a ban on DIY household waste charge mean that household no long have to pay to get rid of small - scale DIY waste at council recycling centre . funding have be make available to local authority for trial project include CCTV , AI and education , but there be much more to be do . my Bill will help to ensure a zero - tolerance approach to fly - tipping . the Government need local authority to act . I would like to pay tribute to Councillor Ishfaq Hussain , Councillor Bryan Tyler , Councillor Chaz Fenner and Alex Rafiq , who have be amazing champion in Peterborough for strong action on fly - tipping in urban setting , and to Councillor Steve Allen and John Peach , who have do the same in rural area . on the issue of council act , the second aspect of this Bill would make it mandatory for local authority to issue fine in case where the evidence for fly - tipping be clear on both public and private land . there have be great progress in many area , but it be still far too hit and miss . score of local authority do not prosecute a single case a year . this be unacceptable and we can no long tolerate town hall turn a blind eye . at the moment , a zero - tolerance approach in one area simply mean that a large - scale criminal enterprise can move its operation to a different area . only a consistent national approach to enforcement will put fly - tipper out of business . win the war on fly - tipping be a daunting challenge , but it be one we can not afford to ignore . I would like to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Heywood and Middleton ( Chris Clarkson ) , for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) and for Bury North ( James Daly ) for their support . this Bill would not be here right now without their unflinche support for these measure to tackle fly - tipping . through this Bill we will close the loophole that allow fly - tipper to advertise their criminality online , and we will force local authority to fine perpetrator on both public and private land . to end this scourge , we need a zero - tolerance approach . I have be fortunate enough to take two Bills through the House in my time as an MP . the Ballot Secrecy Bill , introduce by my noble Friend Lord Hayward , tackle family voting and those who would attempt to subvert our democratic process . the Local Government ( pay accountability ) Bill tackle excessive town hall pay and the need for transparency . it have pass its Second reading . now , fly - tipper and criminal who dump their rubbish be firmly in my sight and I hope that the Government and all hon . member will join we in the fight against fly - tipping . question put and agree to . order , that Paul Bristow , Chris Clarkson , Sara Britcliffe , Mr Ranil Jayawardena , Lee Anderson , James Daly , Alexander Stafford , Greg Smith , Jill Mortimer , Dr Caroline Johnson and Danny Kruger present the Bill . Paul Bristow accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 197 ) . Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] consider in Committee [ Sir Roger Gale in the Chair ] I remind member that , in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker " . please use our name when address the Chair . " Chair " , " Madam Chairman " , " Madam Chair " and " Mr Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 1 - power to regulate pedicab I beg to move amendment 9 , page 1 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) when make or exercise its function under pedicab regulation , Transport for London must have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State in accordance with section 7 ( 1 ) . " this amendment require Transport for London to have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State in relation to the making of pedicab regulation and exercise TfL ' s function under those regulation . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : Amendment 1 , page 1 , line 9 , after " must " insert " carry out a public consultation include detail of the propose licensing framework and " . this amendment would require Transport for London to carry out a public consultation before make pedicab regulation and would require that consultation to include detail of the propose licensing framework . amendment 2 , page 1 , line 10 , leave out " whoever " and insert " the London Pedicab Operators Association , Cycling UK and whoever else " . this amendment would ensure that the London Pedicab Operators Association and Cycling UK would be consult by Transport for London before TfL make pedicab regulation . amendment 21 , page 1 , line 10 , leave out " whoever " and insert " local authority , elect representative , and whoever else " . this amendment would require Transport for London to consult with local authority and elect representative as well as anyone else it consider appropriate before make pedicab regulation . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) transport for London shall not make provision for regulate pedicab in public place in Greater London until the Secretary of State have issue guidance under the provision of section 7 . " this amendment would ensure that no regulation could be introduce by Transport for London until the Secretary of State for Transport have issue guidance to Transport for London about the exercise of their function under pedicab regulation . clause stand part . amendment 8 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert " or at a level that enable investment in pedicab infrastructure in Greater London " . this amendment would allow pedicab licence fee to be set at a level that enable investment in pedicab infrastructure in Greater London . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( d ) designate site to be use as pedicab rank . " this amendment would allow Transport for London to use pedicab regulation to designate site as pedicab rank . amendment 12 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( d ) make provision for the designation by traffic authority of place where pedicab may stand for hire . " this amendment allow for the regulation to make provision for the designation by traffic authority of pedicab stand . clause 2 stand part . amendment 17 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the regulation may only create offence relate to the use of a pedicab for any of the follow purpose — ( a ) carry passenger for hire or reward ; ( b ) travel to carry a passenger or passenger for hire or reward ; ( c ) return from carry a passenger or passenger for hire or reward ; or ( d ) ply for hire . " this amendment ensure that offence create by pedicab regulation only apply when the pedicab be be use to carry passenger , when travel to or from carry passenger , or when ply for hire . amendment 14 , page 3 , line 20 , at end insert " , provide that equivalent conduct commit by the driver or rider of a motor vehicle be subject to a civil penalty . " this amendment provide that civil penalty relate to pedicab driver may only be use if equivalent conduct commit by a driver or rider of a motor vehicle would be subject to a civil penalty . amendment 15 , page 3 , line 22 , leave out from " immobilisation " to end of line 24 and insert " and seizure by a constable in uniform or by a civil enforcement officer of any pedicab that — ( a ) be be use in a manner that be cause alarm or distress to member of the public , or ( b ) be be drive in a manner that — ( i ) contravene section 35 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , ( ii ) contravene section 29 to 32 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 , or ( iii ) in the case of a mechanically propel pedicab , would amount to a contravention of section 29 to 32 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 if commit on a pedal cycle without mechanical propulsion , if the driver have be give warn on a prior occasion by a constable in uniform or a civil enforcement officer that the driver be use or drive the pedicab in a manner describe in this paragraph or paragraph ( a ) . " this amendment ensure that the power to immobilise and seize pedicab be assign to police constable in uniform or to traffic officer duly authorise by local authority , and that they be proportionate to the power to immobilise and seize motor vehicle in section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2002 . clause 3 stand part . clause 4 stand part . amendment 18 , in clause 5 , page 4 , line 17 , leave out from " mean " to the end of line 21 and insert " a pedicab , as define in section 1 ( 2 ) , which conform to the Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles Regulations 1983 ; " . this amendment define " power - assist pedicab " as a pedicab which conform to the Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles Regulations 1983 . clause 5 stand part . clause 6 stand part . amendment 3 , in clause 7 , page 4 , line 32 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to issue guidance to Transport for London about the exercise of their function under pedicab regulation . amendment 19 , page 4 , line 32 , leave out " may " and insert " must , within six month of the passage of this Act , " . this amendment require the Secretary of State to issue guidance to Transport for London about the exercise of their function under pedicab regulation within six month of the passage of this Act . amendment 10 , page 4 , line 32 , leave out " the exercise of " and insert " make pedicab regulation and exercise " . this amendment clarify that the Secretary of State ' s guidance to TfL encompass the making of pedicab regulation , as well as the exercise of its function under those regulation . amendment 11 , page 4 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in prepare guidance to be issue under this section , the Secretary of State must have regard to the follow objective — ( a ) the benefit to the environment , economic vitality and the health and quality of life that properly regulate pedicab service can provide ; ( b ) the safety of pedicab driver and passenger ; ( c ) the need to minimise danger , disruption and disturbance to the public ; ( d ) the reasonableness of pedicab fare for the passenger , rider and operator of pedicab ; ( e ) the designation of place where pedicab may stand for hire ; ( f ) the need for licensing and other charge or requirement impose on pedicab rider and operator , and the penalty for contravention of offence create by pedicab regulation , to be reasonable and proportionate to the risk that pedicabs pose to their rider , passenger and the wide public . " this amendment define the objective that the Secretary of State must have regard to when draw up guidance on pedicab regulation , include to take into account the benefit that properly regulate pedicab can provide . amendment 5 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " whoever " and insert " the London Pedicab Operators Association , Cycling UK and whoever else " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to consult the London Pedicab Operators Association and Cycling UK as well as anyone the Secretary of State consider appropriate before issue guidance . amendment 7 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " whoever " and insert " with local authority , elect representative , and whoever else " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to consult with local authority and elect representative as well as anyone the Secretary of State consider appropriate before issue guidance . clause 7 stand part . amendment 16 , in clause 8 , page 5 , line 8 , at end insert — " ' civil enforcement officer ' have the meaning give by section 76 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 ; " . this amendment be link to Amendment 15 . amendment 13 , page 5 , line 17 , at end insert — " ' traffic authority ' have the same meaning as in section 121a ( 1A ) and ( 2 ) of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 . " this amendment be link to Amendment 12 . clause 8 stand part . clause 9 stand part . clause 10 stand part . government amendment 20 . clause 11 stand part . new clause 1 — protection of child and vulnerable adult — " ( 1 ) the Policing and Crime Act 2017 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 177 , in subsection ( 6 ) , at end insert — ( g ) the Pedicabs ( London ) Act 2024 " this new clause include this Bill in the definition of " taxi and private hire vehicle legislation " for the purpose of section 177 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 . this permit the Secretary of State to issue guidance to public authority exercise licensing function so as to protect child and vulnerable adult . new clause 2 — licensing function under pedicab regulation : protection of child and vulnerable adult — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance to Transport for London under the provision of section 177 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 as to how its licensing function under pedicab regulation may be exercise so as to protect child , and vulnerable individual who be 18 or over , from harm . ( 2 ) the guidance must include a requirement for enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service check to be a condition of licensing . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must arrange for any guidance issue under this section , and any revision of it , to be publish . " this new clause be link to NC1 . it would require the Secretary of State to issue guidance to TfL as to how its licensing function under pedicab regulation may be exercise so as to protect child and vulnerable adult from harm , include compulsory DBS check . new clause 3 — condition of licensing : disclosure and Barring Service check — " ( 1 ) any provision relate to condition of licence under section ( 1 ) ( a ) may include a requirement for pedicab driver or operator to have enhance Disclosure and Barring Service check . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision that be consequential on this section . ( 3 ) regulation under this section must be make by statutory instrument and may not be make until they be approve by both Houses of Parliament . ( 4 ) regulation under this section may amend , repeal or revoke provision make by or under any legislation pass before this Act . " this new clause enable TfL to include DBS check as a condition of licensing for pedicab driver or operator in any licensing provision make by Transport for London . it also permit the Secretary of State to make regulation to make any consequential provision . I begin by put on record my appreciation for the positive way in which the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , have engage with our deliberation on this Bill . as discuss on Second Reading , the difference of opinion on the Bill centre around whether its consequence , deliberate or otherwise , will be to legislate pedicab out of existence . Pedicabs be to London what gondola be to Venice . they be an essential part of the colour and vibrancy of our capital city . the Evening Standard recently warn of the damage be do to London ' s nightlife and the night - time economy , and pedicab be an essential part of that economy . I be sure we would not want to do anything to far undermine the viability of that night - time economy . be this Bill the equivalent of a morphine syringe driver to kill off pedicab , or be it a necessary protector of responsible pedicab operator ? both I and , I think , the Minister want it to be the latter , and so do Cycling UK , which have a membership of some 70 , 000 cyclist — it be quite a large organisation — as well as the London Pedicab Operators Association . I express my concern about over - regulation on Second Reading , as do my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who ask the Minister for an assurance that " when this regulation come into force , it will be light touch and not onerous , so that we do not kill this young and perfectly acceptable industry ? " and the Minister reply : " the answer be yes and yes . " — [ Official Report , 28 February 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 375 . ] that clear and unambiguous response be extremely welcome . it be important that we be able to deliver on that commitment . the question often arise of whether we can trust Transport for London . those of we who live in London during the week , and other who be resident in London throughout the year , be quite concerned about Transport for London ' s failure to listen on issue such as the ultra low emission zone extension and the proliferation of 20 mph zone . transport for London produce an outline of how it will use the process of regulation , which it will be give under this Bill , in January 2022 , and it be update in February 2024 . the Minister make arrangement for the new draft to be circulate to all interested member . unfortunately , and I know it be not his fault , the draft be circulate not with his letter but late on Thursday , about half an hour after the House have rise and the deadline for table amendment have pass . my amendment therefore take no account of that document . have I see it before the deadline , I might well have table additional amendment . I accept my hon . friend ' s point that there be an issue with the TfL regulation not be provide until Thursday . he may recall that he be involve in meeting with I and tfl on my private Member ' s Bill back in 2021 - 22 , when my office email he the same draft regulation on 20 January 2022 . he have have a couple of year to read those regulation , which I do not believe have be change . I hear what my hon . Friend say , but the draft regulation have be change to take into account the discussion on the Bill in the other place . as she confirm , a document exist in 2022 yet , when I table a parliamentary question to the Minister ask for the draft regulation to be make available , I be tell that they be not available . it be important that draft regulation be share with all legislator and be not the subject of private meeting . I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) be as eager as anybody to ensure that Transport for London ' s intention be explore so that we can be sure that it genuinely want to retain the benefit of have a lively and vibrant pedicab industry in London . I will address the content we have now see in the potential licensing framework for pedicab in London , because I do not think it will excite much support from people who be keen to defend the interest of genuine pedicab operator . there be an issue with the ability of pedicab to lawfully ply for hire in London . when people think of pedicab , they think of go up to the driver of a stationary pedicab on the side of a London street and ask for a ride . I be not aware of any statement from the Government suggest that they believe that pedicab should not be lawfully available to ply for hire yet , when one look at the draft regulation , one can see that Transport for London be raise the question of whether or not pedicab should continue to be able to lawfully ply for hire . I come to another area of concern . currently , there be no regulation of fare for private hire vehicle , and for good reason . as the document set out , we do not have to regulate the fare of private hire vehicle because they be subject to a lot of competition . yet the draft regulation suggest that TfL would wish to regulate the fare of pedicab , even when they be be use , in essence , for private hire . do the hon . Gentleman acknowledge that in a previous debate on the Bill a great deal of concern be raise by a number of hon . member from across the House about the conduct of some pedicab driver and the level of fee sometimes levy on passenger , some of whom be tourist who be unaware of the nature of the business they be get into ? I believe the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) raise that issue in the previous debate . I accept that , but those concern relate to the use of pedicab when they be ply for hire , and people then get into they and be — to put it colloquially — " rip off . " there should be regulation of fare in those circumstance , but where the pedicab be a private hire vehicle — where an agreement have be make prior to its hire — the term and condition will be a contractual arrangement between the hir and the pedicab operator . that be exactly equivalent to what happen in the private vehicle hire sector at the moment , where there be no regulation of the fare . I do not understand why TfL be seek power to regulate the pedicab fare even when that be a private hire arrangement , rather than the subject of a hire arrangement make on the street . page 5 of the potential licensing framework for pedicab in London state , " TfL would seek to introduce control on fare for pedicab , include fare for pre - book journey . " that be completely inconsistent with the point TfL make in the previous paragraph , which say , " TfL do not regulate fare for private hire vehicle . as private hire vehicle be pre - book , passenger be in a position to make a consumer choice before hire the vehicle . private hire vehicle fare be thus set by the operator in a competitive market , which allow price to be one of the factor passenger take into account when choose which operator to book with . " so why be tfl seek to introduce control on fare for pre - book journey ? the next issue of concern , which have not be resolve , be whether pedicab should be able to charge per passenger . currently , taxi can not charge per passenger ; they charge per journey . one can understand why , because the taxi be license for a certain number of seat — for example , five — and the number of passenger do not make much difference to the speed of the vehicle . the situation for pedicab be significantly different , because take four passenger in a pedicab require a lot more cycling effort from one person than one passenger do . so surely it be reasonable that pedicabs should be able to charge per passenger , rather than just per journey irrespective of how many passenger be there . alarmingly , the potential licensing framework make reference to the possibility that TfL might require pedicab operator to accept any fare that be offer . so if a group of people get together and say , " you ' ve get four seat in your pedicab , we wish to take all four of they and we require you to take we to Leicester Square " , the pedicab driver would be require to accept those four people , who might be heavy . that would be the case despite his wish to have only one or two people in his pedicab because he be not sufficiently fit to transport all four people in his pedicab . those be further concern I have about what be contain in these draft regulation . the cycling fraternity be very worried about pedicab be legislate out of existence , which be why they have argue that the pedicab regime should be national , rather than limit to London , and that it should not be an extension of the rule relate to taxi and private hire vehicle . I table a question to the Minister follow his helpful intervention on Second Reading , when he talk about the issue of licensing authority across the rest of the country and refer to paragraph 8 . 3 of his Department ' s publication " Taxi and private hire vehicle license good practice guidance for licensing authority in England " , which be update on 17 November . in that update , the Department advise that licensing authority " should make appropriate adjustment " to take into account the demand for pedicab service in their area . during the early debate , we have hear that some such area include Oxford , Salisbury , Bristol and Cambridge . so I table a write question to the Secretary of State ask " what information his Department hold on ( a ) the number of pedicab outside Greater London that be license as ( i ) taxis and ( ii ) private hire vehicle and ( b ) the number and proportion of those pedicab that be in ( a ) Oxford , ( b ) Salisbury , ( c ) Bristol and ( D ) cambridge ; and if he will make an assessment of the potential impact on the number of licensed pedicab of paragraph 8 . 3 of his Department ' s guidance entitle Taxi and private hire vehicle license good practice guidance for licensing authority in England " . the answer I receive from the Minister on 25 March rather duck the question : " Outside London pedicab can be license as taxi . Pedicabs can not be license as a private hire vehicle as legislation define a private hire vehicle as a motor vehicle . the Department for Transport issue guidance on license taxi and private hire vehicle to authority who should consider the recommendation make and their obligation under the Regulators ' Code to carry out their activity in a way that support those they regulate to comply and grow . the Best Practice Guidance … set out that where there be local interest … . licensing authority should make appropriate adjustment … subject to the legal requirement , it be for licensing authority to consider " . what the Minister do not say be what impact , if any , the change in the good practice guidance that he issue have have on pedicab operator or on people be able to start pedicab operation outside London . the answer , as far as one can gather , be that outside London there be no licensed pedicab operation , because , despite the Government ' s apparent good intention , those who wish to operate pedicab outside London use the taxi and private hire vehicle regulation be unable to get their operation off the ground . that be largely because of the regulatory burden and the cost associate with insurance , apart from anything else . there be those who believe , as I do , that pedicab be a highly environmentally advantageous mean of transport : the pedicab driver be take good exercise in cycle his pedicab and it be not cause any emission . in addition , pedicab enable people to get from one part of London to another and to have an enjoyable experience . in the same way that not many people in Venice use gondola as a means of get from a to b quickly , pedicab be not use as an alternative to the bus or the underground . they be there for a bit of fun and recreation . why would this Conservative Government want to legislate they out of existence ? I do not think they want to do that , which be why I have propose a series of amendment design to tighten up the pedicab regime . my first amendment " require Transport for London to have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State in relation to the making of pedicab regulation and exercise TfL ' s function under those regulation . " my point be that the making of the regulation be what be important rather than the exercising of the function under they , so the amendment require Transport for London to have regard to that . that link to the requirement in amendment 19 to ensure that the Government produce the guidance within six month of the Bill receive Royal Assent . without that provision we could have a situation where the Government be require by law to produce regulation , but there be no time limit on that . as an example of how time lapse , I remember that just over five year ago , on a Friday in this Chamber , my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) bring forward a Bill to control bad behaviour by rogue parking operator , who can cause abuse at the behest of transport organisation , access driver and vehicle detail , and impose severe penalty , include enormous fine , on allege miscreant who have park on private property . the Government assure we that a code of practice would be draw up , and I put forward an amendment specify the period within which that should be do . I be assure by the then Minister — none other than the person who be now our Prime Minister — that my amendment be unnecessary , but five year later that code of practice have still not be produce , to the frustration of motorist up and down the country . that be why we need to include an amendment that specify the timescale within which the Government must produce their guidance . amendment 19 suggest a timescale of six month . transport for London could introduce its regulation thereafter , have take into account the Government guidance . clause 7 be purely permissive : it permit , not require , the Government to issue guidance to Transport for London . it be essential that the Government issue guidance that ensure Transport for London realise it will not be allow to prevent pedicab ply for hire in London ; it will not be able to require pedicab operator to put a maximum of four heavy people in their cab and not get any extra fee for transport they ; and it will not be able to require other potentially damaging provision in the draft regulation . my next amendment relate to consultation . amendment 1 " would require Transport for London to carry out a public consultation … to include detail of the propose licensing framework . " it be clear from the document that have be produce that Transport for London be intent on do that , so I will not press that amendment . however , we need to be more specific about the people with whom the consultation should be carry out , so amendment 2 say that the consultation must include " the London Pedicab Operators Association , Cycling UK and whoever else " . currently , the Bill say : " before make pedicab regulation , Transport for London must consult whoever it consider appropriate . " why be that so vague ? it need to be much more specific . I be pleased that the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) have table an amendment that deal with the same concern . she seek to spell it out in a slightly different way , but her amendment 21 reflect our joint concern . amendment 4 provide that " transport for London shall not make provision for regulate pedicab in public place in Greater London until the Secretary of State have issue guidance under the provision of section 7 . " as I have say , if we have a requirement for the Secretary of State to issue that guidance within six month , that point be cover off as well . the London Pedicab Operators Association and Cycling UK have raise the issue of where pedicab will be able to stand . we already have taxi rank . if we be to have a properly function pedicab regime in central London , there need to be some provision for the designation of place where pedicab may stand for hire . amendment 12 require that the regulation " make provision for the designation by traffic authority " of pedicab stand . when one walk around London these day , one often find the pavement litter with bike , many of which have fall over and some of which be still on their stand . they obstruct the pavement and there do not seem to be any effective regulation of they . it would be ironic if Transport for London be to single out pedicab operator as not be able to have anywhere to put their pedicab and rest while ply for hire , while the user of what I still call Boris bike seem to be able to dump their bike wherever it suit they in London , cause obstruction to the highway and pavement . amendment 17 would ensure that the offence create by the pedicab regulation apply only when the pedicab be be use to carry passenger , when travel to or from carry passenger , or when ply for hire . many pedicab be use for the transport of good around London , which be obviously an environmentally friendly mean of do so . concern have be express that if the regulation be design only to protect passenger and their safety and security , there could be a situation that we do not want to see where the pedicab driver who be just carry good find himself subject to the same potential offence as those carry passenger . it be important to note that Pedal I , an organisation that carry out freight delivery via pedicab , have always be supportive of the Bill , because it firmly believe that there should be regulation and that the whole industry should be properly regulate . it already ensure that its driver be properly check and safe , and that its vehicle undergo regular , proper security and safety check . it be an important point to make that part of the industry — particularly those that carry freight — be supportive of the Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point , which be similar to one make by the London Pedicab Operators Association , which have be campaign for 20 - plus year to have proper regulation of pedicab so that its business can be carry out in a lawful and responsible way and not be plague by rogue operator . it be good to hear that the organisation to which she refer be of a like mind . indeed , I think nobody across the House be against the idea of have some regulation of pedicab . the difference be in whether we want to introduce safeguard that will prevent those regulation from be so stringent that they regulate pedicab out of existence . when my hon . friend and I have the discussion to which she refer early , she be unfortunately unable to commit — in what be her Bill at that stage — to include provision that would have set that out in clear language . I suspect that be because , as we know , one of the organisation that would like to legislate pedicab out of existence be the London Taxi Drivers Association . that be perfectly understandable — it be much easy for its driver if they have few competitor on the street — but we owe it to the people who have transform transport for people in the centre of London , particularly in the late evening and past midnight , and have introduce this alternative : namely , the provision of pedicab . amendment 15 would ensure " that the power to immobilise and seize pedicab be assign to police constable in uniform or to traffic officer duly authorise by local authority , and that they be proportionate to the power to immobilise and seize motor vehicle in section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2002 . " I hope that that be a no - brainer and that , in respond , the Minister will be able to assure we that exactly that will happen in practice . at the moment , it be not clear in the regulation that Transport for London have that in mind . it seem to be keen on the fix penalty notice regime , with all the potential injustice that flow from that . amendment 18 be on how we define a pedicab . the amendment would ensure that power - assist pedicab — pedicab not just drive by human effort but assist with a battery — be define as a pedicab that conform to the Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles Regulations 1983 , thereby secure some consistency across the regime . as you will know , Sir Roger , a power - assist pedal cycle under those regulation be not allow to go more than 15 . 5 mph , although apparently quite a lot of they do . I have see cyclist go a lot fast than 15 . 5 mph , but Transport for London have it in mind in the draft regulation to require pedicab operator to install equipment — in effect a speed limiter — that would prevent the pedicabs from go fast than 15 . 5 mph . that must reinforce the case for say that electrically assist pedicab should be regard as electrically assist cycle rather than as other sort of powered vehicle . there be a clear distinction in law between vehicle subject to the Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles Regulations and those that be not , which could be regard as ordinary motor vehicle . whether we define a pedicab as a cycle or as a motor vehicle will have significant implication in third - party liability insurance . one of the big constraint on pedicab operator be the cost of insurance . the regulation will rightly require insurance , but it be important that they should be draft in such a way as to make it easy for the cost of that insurance to be less penal than they might otherwise be if pedicab be define as equivalent to an ordinary vehicle . I have refer to amendment 19 , and amendment 3 offer a less preferable alternative . amendment 10 would clarify that which be not clear in clause 7 : that the Secretary of State ' s guidance to Transport for London should encompass the making of the regulation as well as the exercise of the function under those regulation . you will appreciate the difference between those two proposition , Sir Roger . I look forward to hear whether the Minister can provide we with some reassurance in relation to that guidance . amendment 11 go back to the objective of this Bill . Chris Smallwood , the spokesman for and on behalf of the London Pedicab Operators Association , have write to I to express his support for my amendment , and he have suggest a number himself . he have say that he have have introductory meeting with official from TfL . he name they , but I will not repeat their name in the House . he say : " a concern be that when question about the objective that tfl ' s regulation be seek to achieve , they " — those official — " talk only about the safety of pedicab driver and other road user , which of course be a very important objective , and be reflect in our propose amendment on the objective for the Regulations . however , they seem reluctant to acknowledge that a well - regulate pedicab sector could provide health , environmental and other benefit , and that secure those benefit should also be an objective . " he go on to say : " it ' s not essential that this should be write into the Bill itself , if the Government state that these objective be write into their guidance to TfL . " I hope that , in his response , the Minister will be able to assure we that those objective will be write into the guidance to Transport for London , because it appear from what be be say by TfL official , representative from Cycling UK and the London Pedicab Operators Association that that be not common ground at the moment , which it should be . I hope that my amendment 11 , which set out the issue to which the Secretary of State must have regard when prepare the guidance , be both helpful and constructive . amendment 5 repeat the point make early about the need to consult with the London Pedicab Operators Association , Cycling UK and whoever else be think appropriate . amendment 16 , which be link with amendment 15 , would define a " civil enforcement officer " as have the same meaning as be give in section 76 of the Traffic Management Act 2004 . amendment 13 would insert a provision that a " traffic authority " have the same meaning as in section 121a ( 1A ) and ( 2 ) of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 . let I turn now to the new clause and amendment put forward by other member — I look forward to hear their contribution . I fear , however , that the collective consequence of those amendment and new clause would be to make it even easy for pedicab to be legislate out of existence , rather than facilitate a positive regime , which be what I want , where pedicab be welcome , encourage and enable to contribute to the life of London . at the same time , the Conservatives would be see to be support the hard - work small business that be involve in this perfectly legitimate activity . I say good luck to all those who wish to promote the cause of pedicab not just in London , but across the country . hopefully , in due course , the Government will ensure that pedicab become a much more widespread mean of transport in place where they be not currently use , despite the effort of a few entrepreneur , I hope the Government will introduce appropriate regulation so that it will be not just London but the United Kingdom that be pride across the world as have this very important form of transport . Mr Evans , may I say what a pleasure it be to be speak with you in the Chair ? however , have say that , I be very grateful to Sir Roger for not have interrupt I once during the time that I have be speak . I hope that that be an indication of the genuine good will that exist across the House about the importance of this issue and how we need to get to grip with it and resolve it amicably . this issue have be go on for more than 20 year . as I mention on Second Reading , it could have be deal with in the 2005 private legislation , which be bring forward by London authority . it have never be implement because there have always be a conflict between those in London who want to legislate pedicab out of existence and those who wish to have a properly license regime with good , effective and proportionate regulation . on that basis , I commend my amendment to the Committee . if no one else wish to speak , we will come to the Front Benchers . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak in my inaugural Committee of the whole House on behalf of the official Opposition . as we set out on Second Reading , Labour be clear that the Bill can help to sustain a thriving London pedicab industry that be also safe and trust by its customer , and we support its progress . however , there be two area in which Labour believe that the Bill can be improve : pedicab infrastructure , and the crucial safeguard of require enhance disclosure and bar service check for pedicab driver . amendment 8 , which be table in my name and those of my Front - Bench colleague , would enable Transport for London to use pedicab licence fee for investment in pedicab infrastructure in London . alongside passenger safety and unregulated fare charging , one of the big issue present by unregulated pedicab be the nuisance of operator block pavement and road as they ply for trade . the Heart of London Business Alliance , which represent over 600 business across London ' s west end , be clear that pedicab frequently block pavement and road outside many of its member ' premise . that can cause chaos at busy period , such as when many hundred of people be file out into the street after a west end show . the amendment would enable Transport for London to use fee levy from pedicab licence to invest in infrastructure that support the industry . that infrastructure could include designate pedicab rank in certain area , design to relieve the nuisance of block pavement by give operator a specific area in which to pick up customer . TfL have already set out in its potential licensing framework that it will consult stakeholder on the provision of pedicab stand . I hope that the Heart of London Business Alliance , along with other association and body , include the London Pedicab Operators Association , can feed into those discussion . my hon . friend be make a good closing speech on why regulation be important . the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and I share the view that the Bill strike the right balance between allow a sustainable and support pedicab industry to develop , and give Transport for London the power that it need to ensure that the sector run safely . do he agree ? I agree , but there could be enhance DBS check , which our new clause 3 would provide for . as I have say , TfL have already set out in its potential licensing framework that it will consult stakeholder , and I hope that that will include the London Pedicab Operators Association . of course , although it be vital that fee be set at a level that enable investment , they must remain proportionate . we be try to provide for a prosperous pedicab industry , after all , so we must ensure that fee be not prohibitive . clause 2 ( 4 ) already provide for TfL to set fee at a level that enable the recovery of cost incur for administer the licensing scheme . licensing fee be set on a cost recovery basis be fair and proportionate . amendment 8 to clause 2 ( 4 ) would simply grant TfL a degree of flexibility while acknowledge the benefit that investment in pedicabs infrastructure can have . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech clearly set out the importance of have the right balance . do he agree that , from this work in London , lesson could be learn for other town and city around the country , and that encourage the pedicab industry and other delivery by bicycle in a sensitive way around the country could generate a great number of local job and remove fume and other menace from the public realm ? my hon . friend make a very important point ; hopefully , during TfL ' s consultation , it will engage with those other organisation to ensure maximum benefit . labour ' s priority , after all , be to grant TfL the flexibility it need to implement a regulatory regime that promote safety while also allow the regulated pedicab industry in London to flourish . naturally , infrastructure such as pedicab stand would be compete against many different demand for the use of central London ' s kerbside , and it will remain tfl ' s responsibility to work with local authority on where infrastructure can be viably locate . some hon . member may not agree that this Bill be an appropriate place to discuss pedicab infrastructure . Labour believe that on the contrary , the conduct of pedicab driver and the safety of the public be undeniably link to TfL ' s ability to fund and make provision for infrastructure that support a regulated pedicab industry . amendment 8 clarify one potential revenue stream for the provision of that infrastructure , and I hope the Government will consider its merit carefully . I now turn to new clause 1 to 3 , which stand in my name and those of my Front - Bench colleague . all three new clause concern the safety of child and vulnerable adult use pedicab . as we hear on Second Reading , and as have be report widely in the medium and by numerous stakeholder , misconduct by pedicab operator arguably provide the strong case for the desperate need to regulate the industry . block street and pavement , reckless driving and noise nuisance be all important area that regulation will address , but they pale in comparison with the vital responsibility we have to ensure that TfL have the power to ensure public safety effectively . as TfL ' s propose licensing framework set out , that emphasis on safety will be its guide principle for pedicab regulation . at the front and centre be eligibility requirement for operator and driver . TfL have set out a raft of propose licensing requirement , include alignment of visa status requirement with taxi and private hire licensing , english proficiency , and highway code and hazard perception awareness . that be of course welcome , but TfL be also clear that it would like to see compulsory enhance Disclosure and Barring Service check for pedicab driver , again in line with the taxi and private hire requirement . that should be a vital component of ensure the safety of pedicab customer , but TfL have explicitly state on page 5 of its draft licensing framework that it would require change in legislation , because while clause 2 ( 6 ) ( a ) of the Bill empower tfl to regulate licensing eligibility , enhance DBS check may not form part of those requirement if TfL do not have the right power . those difficulty be raise in the other place and be acknowledge by the Lords Minister himself . the draft licensing framework also make a clear distinction between basic and enhance DBS check , and explicitly state that enhance DBS check for pedicab driver would be tfl ' s preference . I say for the benefit of colleague that an enhanced DBS check may show information hold by local police force on individual . that intelligence may prove vital when decide whether to award a licence to a pedicab driver , and it be absolutely right that TfL should be able to require enhanced check . while enhance DBS check be not a panacea , they be clearly an important component of thorough eligibility requirement . labour recognise the need to balance get the Bill swiftly on to the statute book with the need to ensure that it convey sufficient power to tfl to truly make pedicab a trusted and safe mode of transport in London . if TfL do not have the right power to vet pedicab driver through enhance DBS check , that will threaten its ability to truly implement a watershed regulatory framework . labour ' s new clause 1 would add this Bill , upon Royal Assent , to the list of exist taxi and private hire vehicle legislation under section 177 of the Policing and Crime Act 2017 . as colleague may be aware , section 177 empower the Secretary of State to issue statutory guidance on how licensing authority can ensure the safeguarding of child and vulnerable adult . include pedicab in the list of licensed activity cover by the statutory guidance would be a crucial step towards a safe pedicab industry . labour ' s new clause 2 be design to build on new clause 1 by turn the Secretary of State ' s power to issue statutory guidance to TfL into a duty . crucially , under subsection ( 2 ) , this guidance would also include a requirement for enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service check to be a condition of a licence . in concert with new clause 1 , this new clause would equip TfL with the power it need to properly regulate in the name of safety by include enhance DBS check as a baseline standard for driver eligibility . finally , Labour ' s new clause 3 would insert into the Bill the power for TfL to make enhanced DBS check as a condition of a licence to operate a pedicab , and provide for the Secretary of State to amend the relevant secondary legislation to facilitate this . it be important to emphasise once again that these be power that Transport for London have explicitly say it want to use . if we be to truly place safety at the heart of these regulation , TfL must have the power to mandate an enhanced DBS check for all pedicab driver , and the three new clause provide a way to achieve that . however , in the spirit of get the Bill on to the statute book as urgently as possible , if it be clear that these amendment do not have the support of the House , I be content to not push they to a vote . I wish to address all the amendment that have be put down by all colleague . I be conscious that the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) represent the Liberal Democrats be not present , but I will deal with her amendment 21 , 6 and 7 very briefly . on her amendment 21 , the consultation will happen as she seek . on her amendment 6 , clause 2 ( 7 ) address her concern on that . on her amendment 7 , I believe that that be cover by clause 7 ( 6 ) . the hon . member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) have put forward a number of amendment . he and I have discuss this on a previous occasion and prior to today , and I will address a couple of his key point . they be make in the good possible way and in the right spirit , be conscious of what be discuss in the other place . on his new clause 1 , we believe it be not necessary give that clause 7 ( 2 ) already achieve the policy intention by specify that the Secretary of State ' s guidance may include guidance about TfL ' s function . the key point be that we believe clause 7 ( 2 ) address the overarching theme . the crucial point the hon . Member want to make be about DBS check , and I acknowledge that point . clearly , there be the primary check we have repeatedly discuss in the past , but I be strongly instruct that the appropriate way to deal with these matter be to make amendment to the exception through the Police Act 1997 ( Criminal Records ) Regulations 2002 , under the negative procedure , and the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 ( exception ) Order 1975 , under the affirmative procedure . I can tell the Committee that the Home Office and , in particular , the Ministry of Justice be currently consider a range of proposal for change to such eligibility , and we be look to bring forward a consolidated package of change in due course . I be not able to do that at this stage , and I do not feel that this Bill be the right venue to do it . however , the hon . member ' s point be well note , have be take on board and be very much live in the Ministry of Justice ' s consideration . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , in his typical way , make a heartfelt speech set out his genuine concern and his genuine desire to ensure that there be a pedicab business on an ongoing basis post regulation . I welcome his concern on that point , and as a strong conservative I want to see exactly the same as he . I put that on record , and I make it very clear that we want a thousand flower to bloom and we want pedicab to continue on a long - term basis . I know there be a desire to trade who say what over the last few year , but I want briefly to put on record some of the comment from some of the key organisation engage here . clearly , the London Pedicab Operators Association have make a variety of comment down the year . on 7 November 2023 one of the spokesman , Mr Schroder , state : " it ' s handy for we to have legislation and rule and regulation for the operator which include insurance … we ' ve be compete against operator who don ' t follow any rule , who can do what they want , and that make it difficult … it ' s a shame that they don ' t involve the industry in make the decision , because then it ' s take it or leave it . " Mention be make of Mr Smallwood , who state in August 2022 that he be " optimistic " because probably for the first time , all party have a determination to finally establish a bespoke regulatory regime for pedicab that extend throughout the country . he say this be a " positive and exciting " opportunity , and perhaps a singular chance in the foreseeable future to resolve this long - stand issue . he add — I think this be relevant to consideration of whether we be create a bespoke arrangement to allow an organisation to continue in a safely regulated way — that regulation across Europe and the USA be simple , straightforward and effective . clearly it be possible to regulate pedicab and at the same time to allow the industry to flourish . will the Minister reflect on the benefit of this regulatory approach be bring forward to look at other comparable new and emerge form of transport , particularly electric bike and scooter ? there be a great deal of concern among my constituent and other that we need a sensible approach to these new vehicle that encourage the use of more modest and environmentally friendly transport , but that also keep they off pavement and avoid people be scared to walk down the street . will he commit to look into that important matter as well ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to go somewhat beyond the Bill , and I will try to address that issue in a couple of way . clearly , the Department for Transport must look at all type of vehicle , in whatever shape or form , that utilise the road , include cycle and various type of scooter and the like . it be complex legislation , as we be show by deal just with the simple issue of pedicab , but it be unquestionably the case — I speak as the Minister who answer for accessibility issue — that this can not be the long - term situation . I accept that a research project be ongoing in respect of these alternative vehicle , but that can not be the case long term . it be my humble opinion that we have an unregulated system where vehicle can be deposit on the pavement , and those who have accessibility issue , or who be blind or have other disability , be unquestionably compromise by that . there must be regulation go forward . I be keen to see that but again — this slightly touch on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch — there have to be a way to get the right form of regulation to allow this to go ahead . to be fair to successive Mayors of London , have what be sometimes call Boris bike , and sometimes call other type of bike , with a docking station , have be exceptionally successful at get people out of a bus or car , and it be the right thing to do . I be utterly on board with what the hon . Gentleman say . it be for all party to look at their transport manifesto , but it would unquestionably be my view , as a very junior and humble Minister , that we must consider that issue . Ben Knowles of Pedal I state that pedicabs " have be undermine by the business model under which they ' re run and by the lack of regulation … so I ' m really excited to see this regulation come in because I think it might help boost standard across the industry and turn it into the reputable , useful service it always should have be . " to assist my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , and all colleague , I ask TfL to update , improve and enhance its draft regulation , and I wish to try to address that briefly . I do not think I have ever come across a Bill that be so brief but have such detailed draft regulation for pre - scrutiny . I have do this job for 14 year , and I have never see such copious detail . my hon . friend be make an important point . I have not always see eye to eye with the current Mayor , but on the regulation of pedicab we be absolutely at one . I know from his transport strategy that he want to encourage more cycling and more green transport , which pedicab be . the last thing the Mayor of London want to do be eradicate pedicab , and the fact that these draft guideline have be put together and that the Mayor have work closely with the Department for Transport make it clear that they want this regime to work . may I put on record my agreement with my hon . friend ? the Department for Transport and TfL have work closely to make progress . there be a desperate desire to get regulation ongoing , so that pedicab can go forward as a properly regulate business . to be fair , TfL have put that in writing , and I briefly mention the comment at paragraph 2 , which state " we recognise the need for regulation to not only improve safety but to minimise the other associate negative impact pedicab have on London , from congestion on street and pavement , to loud music cause public nuisance or disproportionate fare undermine London ' s reputation as a global tourist hub . once this behaviour be effectively manage through a regulatory regime however , we believe there be a number of benefit pedicab may have , especially in central area , where these service could offer a green and space efficient option . " I do not think TfL could have be any more clear about its intent to have a regulatory regime , but also a safe regime . I thank the Minister for make those point , and I thank the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . it be fitting , as we be come to the last few debate in the Chamber before Easter , that the Bill have be resurrect perhaps five time . we be nearly there . on what the Minister have just outline , do he agree that there be cross - party support for see a pedicabs industry that work , that support customer and driver , and that can flourish ? unfortunately , the current situation be cause tension , hence why we need this legislation pass quickly . it be unquestionable that this Bill have cross - party support . even my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , who have understandable concern , be supportive of light - touch regulation on an ongoing basis . may I just address a couple of extra point ? it be on the record that the Bill do not require a statement under section 13c of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , which be good news . I will be move my amendment 20 . as for my hon . friend ' s amendment , I regret that I will disappoint he , as I do not agree with they , but I will deal with they briefly . amendment 9 be cover by clause 7 ( 5 ) . amendment 1 be cover by clause 1 ( 3 ) , which require a statutory public consultation . we have the update and publish February 2024 guidance . on amendment 2 , those body will be consult , and no reasonable consultation could possibly go ahead without they be involve . amendment 4 be deal with by clause 7 . amendment 12 be the same issue as raise by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . on amendment 17 , the Bill be unquestionably for pedicab transport passenger . amendment 14 be deal with by clause 3 ( 5 ) . amendment 15 talk about what would happen in practice , but it be deal with by clause 3 ( 6 ) . amendment 18 be deal with by clause 1 ( 2 ) , which define pedicab as a pedal cycle or power - assist pedal cycle . the term " power - assist " capture the point raise by the amendment , and be broad than " electrically assist " . amendment 3 and 19 have be deal with previously , but clearly the Secretary of State must have the power to assess this process once the Bill have progress . amendment 10 be about guidance not circumvent consultation and regulation . amendment 11 be deal with by clause 7 ( 1 ) . will the Minister assure I that under no circumstance will the Government allow Transport for London to prevent pedicab from be able to ply for hire ? with great respect , this matter should be deal with through the upcoming consultation . TfL could not be any clear than the introduction to say consultation , where it state that it wish pedicab to continue . it be unquestionably the case that they will have to manage the number of pedicab there be , but , with great respect , that be deal with in both the introduction and the subsequent matter . after all , that be the point of a consultation . there should be an open consultation discuss the matter with all the particular individual relevant to it . in those circumstance and , with due respect , I invite all colleague not to press their amendment , and I commend the Bill to the House . I thank the Minister and everybody who have participate in the debate . on the last point about ply for hire , it seem as though Transport for London be actively contemplate a situation in which no pedicab will be able to ply for hire . page 8 of the consultation state , " if , follow consultation , pedicab be allow to continue to ply for hire " . that envisage a situation in which they might not be allow to ply for hire . unless they can ply for hire , that be the end of pedicab as we know they . the proof of the pudding will be in the eating on this matter . I have see over the year in London how we have a Greater London Council that interfere and act against the wish of the people . we now see Transport for London alienate a lot of people over the ultra low emission zone extension and its proliferation of 20 mph limit . I suppose we must trust Transport for London to ensure that it actually do what it say it will do , but I be grateful to the Minister for point out that he and I be ad idem in our determination to ensure that there be a vibrant , lively and continue pedicab industry in London . in those circumstance , I will withdraw my amendment because there be no need to take the matter any far , but I look forward to the consultation that will flow on those regulation . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . just for the record , Sir Roger tell I that you be gloriously within order throughout speak to the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 10 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 11 - short title Amendment make : 20 , page 6 , line 1 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . — ( Guy Opperman . ) this amendment remove the privilege amendment insert by the Lords . clause 11 , as amend , order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill , as amend , report . Bill , as amend in the Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I would like to place on the record my gratitude to colleague , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who have fight nobly to bring forward this vital legislation to the good burgher of London on an ongoing basis , through thick and thin , through private Member ' s Bill , through fair wind and foul . she have do a phenomenal job . it be rightly say that this be a cross - party Bill . I thank Transport for London for its work with the Department for Transport and my official , who have do a fantastic job to take it forward . it be right that I mention my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who try to introduce this legislation previously . fundamentally , this legislation have be overdue for well over 20 year . it be an important but discrete piece of legislation , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I will keep my remark brief , as this be the penultimate main business before the Easter recess , and far be it for I to delay colleague return to their constituency . I be grateful for all hon . member who have participate in the Bill ' s progress , particularly the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I be grateful for the hard work of colleague in the other place , which mean that the Bill come to we in a much improved state , specifically by add the provision for the regulation of noise nuisance . their effort to pressure the Government into change their approach on require parliamentary approval ensure that the power be fully devolve to Transport for London . that be commendable . as I set out on Second Reading and again in Committee , Labour support the Bill . for year there have be call on the Government to grant Transport for London the power it need to regulate this industry . labour welcome the Bill as that will finally become law , and a regulated pedicab industry in London will soon emerge , but it have take far too long to get here . I must repeat what I emphasise on Second reading : there be no doubt that the Bill be hugely welcome to London ' s west end and a handful of other London area , but these measure should have be introduce as part of a far wide transport Bill . elsewhere in transport policy there remain desperate need for major transport reform , particularly on e - bike and e - scooter , but the Government continue to duck that responsibility and have refuse to use this opportunity to bring forward a long - promise and long - delay transport Bill . I have be listen carefully to the Minister ' s argument , and I welcome the Government be content that TfL can mandate enhance DBS check for pedicab under current private hire vehicle legislation . it be regrettable that propose new clause 1 to 3 , all pertain to the safeguarding of vulnerable adult and child , be not accept . TfL itself have indicate throughout its draft licensing framework that passenger safety will be its guide principle , and it be keen to incorporate enhance DBS check into licensing condition under clause 2 ( 6 ) ( a ) , but believe that it currently do not have the power to do so . each of Labour ' s new clause offer a different way forward to incorporate enhance DBS check into tfl ' s regulation . it be disappointing that the Government have not take the new clause forward , but labour welcome the opportunity that table they have present to facilitate a discussion on the importance of TfL have the power to integrate enhanced DBS check into its licensing regime . I welcome the exploration of alternative mean , as the Minister describe , to achieve the same objective . in the light of that , I gently ask the Minister to meet I at his early convenience to discuss this issue far , and to identify way that we can work together on a cross - party basis to grant TfL the power it need to keep customer safe . overall , this Bill be welcome , if not long overdue . it be a great addition to the statute book . once again , I thank all hon . member and Lords in the other place for their involvement , in addition to the Clerks and stakeholder who have help we scrutinise the Bill effectively . it be great to see progress on this Bill . I want to start by congratulate my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , on first introduce the Bill . I congratulate she on her persistence in get this hard , long - await Bill to its last remain stage . like she , my Front - Bench colleague and the Mayor of London , I have long support the Bill as a means of give Transport for London real power to regulate our pedicab . I will keep my remark short . as other have highlight today , the Bill highlight the serious problem of the unregulated regime for pedicab in my constituency and other part of London . my support for the Bill do not come from want to see pedicab ban for good in all form from our street . instead , like everybody else , I want a properly regulate industry that work for everybody . unfortunately , what we have currently be one that create tension . business see their pavement block and consumer discourage , and resident be disrupt by excessively loud music during unsociable hour . passenger face hike , or even extortionate , fee for really short journey . most importantly , driver themselves be force to work in dangerous condition and be undercut by those who cut corner in maintenance . the Bill , with support from the Department for Transport , the Mayor of London and cross - party council across London , strike the right balance in allow a sustainable and support pedicabs industry to develop and flourish . we have wait far too long for it to be pass . while we have be wait , we have continue to see people be rip off , and consumer and visitor deter from come into the heart of London . we want more tourist bring their family and their money , but when they have a bad experience , that spread fast than the good experience . it be therefore really important that we continue to work together in the spirit of cross - party collaboration , and ensure we put an end to unregulated practice and get the Bill on to the statute book . I can not quite believe we be here , to be honest . Mr Deputy Speaker , you have spend many a Friday in the Chair listen to I make the argument for why we need pedicab regulation . it have never be about eradicate pedicab . it have always be about make they safe for the tourist who use they and for the driver who drive they , and make Westminster a much more pleasant place to live , work and have a business . People do not appreciate that in the west end of London there be thousand of people live in social housing , whether in Soho , Fitzrovia , Covent Garden or Marylebone . they have no choice where they live . they be give a home in a social housing block , whether via the council or a housing association , and they be not able to move . often , they have to live with horrendous experience that a minority of pedicab ply : the loud music play for hour on end in the early hour ; tourist rip off ; and so many other example . we must continue to grow the London economy , especially the central London economy , which have take such a battering follow covid and the energy crisis . we need to ensure that when tourist come here they have a fantastic time . I personally fully believe that licensing for pedicab will improve the offer . it will ensure that people enjoy it and that they have a special time in London . I be absolutely delighted that , after four private Members ' Bills , the Government accept the need for the Bill . I reiterate my thank to those in no . 10 , Will Tanner and James Nation , for all the support they give I , and to the Prime Minister , who be fully behind it . my great thank go to the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , who have really work I on this . I thank he so much . I thank the shadow Front Benchers for their support and my dear friend the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) — people talk about have friendship in the Chamber , and I be so proud to have she as a friend . I would also like to thank all the organisation across the west end — the Soho Society , the Marylebone Association and other — who have be behind I all the way . I honestly believe the Bill will make a huge difference , so I thank everyone again . for the people of the west end , this will make a huge difference . I , too , add my thank to the people involve in this issue . in particular , I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for the way in which she have take forward the interest of her constituent . I be disappoint , in a sense , that she have decide to throw in the towel and not stand again at the next general election . perhaps in her retirement from the House she will be able to become a licensed pedicab driver herself — [ Laughter ] — and thereby be able to use her knowledge and experience . she certainly will not have much difficulty in be able to pass the regulatory requirement of know the location of central London and how to get around it . I also thank the London Pedicab Operators Association and Cycling UK , both of which have help I in put question about the Bill . I think it important for awkward question to be put to those who be promote legislation such as this , and I have find it disappointing that a number of London Members have not question any of it . I think that today ' s interchange between the Minister and I should concentrate mind on ensure that the regulation , when they be finally implement , do exactly what we want they to do , so that we be able to have a thriving pedicab industry and activity throughout the country , rather than just in London . as we have hear , that be already the case on the continent and in North America . soon after I be elect — a long time ago — I start to take my two child on a tandem trailer , with my wife and I on the tandem . as a result , my commitment to cycling know no bound and can not be question . I hope that the Bill will reinforce the strong case for cycling , and encourage more people to take the strain and allow other to join they . indeed , an increase number of parent be now take their child to school and on outing on the back of their bike , and good on they for do so . it may have take 20 year for this legislation to get here , but reform legislation be an iterative process . twenty - odd year ago the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association be completely against the idea of pedicab , but I hope we will find that it now tolerate and indeed accept they , and perhaps we can encourage taxi organisation outside London to welcome this very valuable alternative form of transport . I will be brief , because I have not intend to speak , but have follow the debate , particularly in Committee and on Third Reading , I want to thank my hon . friend — I say that with such heartfelt meaning — the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , who have demonstrate the power of this place . we talk about come here and make tangible change , but what have happen today — in addition to the commendable work that my hon . friend have do , along with the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , in produce this legislation — just go to show that despite the bandying around and argy - bargy that sometimes happen , we can make truly bring about real change . I must also put on the record how sad I be to lose my hon . friend from this place , and how much of a loss it will be . she represent , without doubt , the good of this place and , if I may say so , the good of our party . I want to say how proud I be to have watch she take the Bill forward over the last four year in the way that she have . the fact that she have be able to do this for her constituent constitute a monument to she and a legacy . I simply say to she — and I think we would all agree , across the House — that she should be very proud of what she have do today , because she have follow this through and win it for her constituent . she have do what all of we in this place set out to do , and I think that her constituent will be proud of she and grateful as well . we be all go to miss you , Nickie — although obviously I will be go out to Dubai to stay for a few week . I will have a room ready for you . here we go ! question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with an amendment . National Networks National Policy Statement [ relevant document : Ninth Report of the Transport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , National Networks National Policy Statement , HC 903 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 . ] I beg to move , that this House approve the National Policy Statement for National Networks , which be lay before this House on 6 March . it be I again — it be d é j à vu all over again . I will be brief in my opening speech . I stand here today as the Minister in the Department for Transport who be responsible for infrastructure planning and delivery , although some of my colleague handle some of the other key development consent order in that respect . the national network national policy statement , or NNNPS , provide the planning framework for determine application for nationally significant road , rail and strategic freight interchange project . these be scheme determine under the process set out in the Planning Act 2008 . the NNNPS set out why we need to develop these network , and how application for project will be assess . it do not set out location where national network development will take place , neither be it a transport strategy govern wide transport policy , such as active travel . the exist NNNPS be designate in 2015 , and approximately 30 road , rail and SRFI scheme have gain consent since then . the draft NNNPS be subject to public consultation . alongside that , the Transport Committee , lead by my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , undertake an inquiry into the draft . we have make a number of change in response to the Committee ' s work , and I want to put on the record that I be grateful to the Committee for its careful consideration of all the issue raise through both write and oral evidence . I would like to apologise on the record to the Committee , because our initial response to its report do not include a response to one of its recommendation . today , I have lay in the House an amend version of the response , which respond to all the recommendation , include the recommendation concern the application of the NNNPS to other consent regime , such as under the Transport and Works Act 1992 . the NNNPS already provide guidance to applicant on that point , and we believe that this strike the right balance . you will be aware , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we have invest £ 24 billion in the country ' s most important road through the second road investment strategy , and be commit to the next five - year plan for maintain and enhance the network . in Network North , we have recognise the importance of local road infrastructure by provide major increase in funding for the major network programme , with some £ 900 million extra in the midland and £ 1 . 4 billion extra in the north to support regional connectivity and growth . our railway be a vital part of the country ' s transport infrastructure , and well - target rail investment play a crucial role in grow the economy and meet the connectivity need of customer and business . we also want to ensure that we support freight in all its form . freight train carry good worth over £ 30 billion per year across a range of different commodity — specifically , support construction and intermodal flow , which can include customer ' good . it be right that we provide a planning policy framework that enable we to deliver project and investment as quickly as possible . the revised NNNPS do that , and I commend this statement to the House . I have anticipate a slightly long open speech from the Minister . nevertheless , here we be today to debate a new national network national policy statement , a decade after the previous statement be publish in 2014 . the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) originally promise that the Government would review the NNNPS in July 2021 , but here we be , nearly three year on from that promise and a decade on from the last publish statement . perhaps the Minister could explain why it take so long to get to this point . the UK commit to reach net zero by 2050 when we sign the Paris agreement in 2015 . it be not good enough that it take nine year for net zero to finally be integrate into the NNNPS . since 2015 , we have move backwards on net zero . just look at the Prime Minister ' s delaying of the end of the sale of new petrol and diesel car and van . this row back on net zero be not just a disaster for the planet ; it will worsen the cost of live crisis for driver , with an estimate cost to consumer of an eye - water £ 13 billion in high fuel cost as a direct result of the Prime Minister ' s decision . then there be the mess he make of hs2 . the irony and symbolism of where he make the announcement be lose on no one : a disuse railway station at the end of the propose line . everyone recognise the impact of the decision on net zero . even the writer of " the Thick of it " would have dismiss such a plotline as far too implausible . freight train have 76 % few emission than the equivalent road transport capacity , but because of the Prime Minister ' s chaotic decision making , half a million more lorry journey will add to the clogging up of our road every year by carry freight that could have be deliver by rail . I wonder whether the Minister will respond to that point about rail freight . the hon . Gentleman have raise a legitimate point about HS2 . clearly the Prime Minister ' s decision on 6 October be to redistribute that funding to a variety of project , particularly in the north , but what be the Labour party policy ? be its manifesto proposal to continue with HS2 and the second leg or not ? it be a shame that the Minister do not stand up to announce that the Government have find some miraculous way of return to the consensus . we know that the Conservatives have take a wreck ball to the HS2 project , and that they blow the budget , which be why they cancel it , so we be not go to be able to revive it . after the rushing through of the fire sale of the land , the downgrading of ambition on major station such as Euston and the reallocation of funding originally mean for HS2 , which I think he refer to in his speech , there be no way we would be able to revive it . be it any wonder that the Transport Committee have warn we that there be still a lot of catch up to do when it come to our climate change commitment and to ensure that we deliver major infrastructure project on time and to budget ? the Transport Committee ' s member make their concern crystal clear when they say that " the Government should have be proactive and review the NPS upon the introduction of Net Zero target , and should do when any change be make to net zero target policy " . yet the late national network national policy statement still leave gap , notably in its admission that " residual carbon emission as an impact of NSIP " — nationally significant infrastructure project — " scheme be acceptable " . there be a further lack of clarity over what " residual carbon emission " mean in practice , and the policy statement do not offer a process to distinguish between acceptable residual emission and emission that would mean carbon target would not be meet . the Transport Planning Society have even warn that the contradiction between the NNNPS and the transport decarbonisation plan be " potentially incredibly dangerous " . we all know that our planning system be break , with too many project bogge down in development limbo for year on end as they wait for a decision , but the Transport Committee have warn that the gap in this policy statement that I have just identify could lead to even more costly and time - consume legal challenge to major project on climate ground . this would slow down our snail ' s - pace planning system even far , and it be the taxpayer that would pay the price for the delay . the flaw in the statement do not stop there . the Government have fail to take into account local authority - level target and carbon budget , to ensure that the local level impact of major development project be take into account . meanwhile , Midlands Connect warn that sub - national transport body have also be snub . many of these body have already develop strategic transport plan at regional level to support economic growth and reduce carbon emission . they should not be ignore . the National Infrastructure Planning Association have highlight a lack of clarity in a number of area , such as the frequency with which policy be review , and the need for further detail to be publish . the organisation warn that " weak link " ultimately result in " delay to decision on DCO application " . it warn that those delay to development consent order could " slow down the delivery of Nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects " . so will the Minister tell we whether the Government be go to take the action that be need so that Britain do not fall even far behind in the development of vital national infrastructure ? on the subject of exist delay to planning , the planning process have already become cumbersome and slow under this Government , with the time take to grant development consent order increase by 65 % since 2012 , to more than four year . in response to the Transport Committee ' s report , which flag the planning system as a key source of delay in deliver infrastructure project , the Government themselves even admit that they recognise " the need for modernisation and reform to the planning system " . I have cover the shambolic approach to HS2 , but a whole range of other major infrastructure project that the Minister ' s Department be supposedly commit to deliver have see soar cost and repeat delay . year of failure to deliver rail infrastructure upgrade such as the midland main line have rob community of the benefit of well transport service . the Minister mention his so - call Network North proposal , but I remind he that 85 % of its project be reannouncement . much of the investment be not even in the north . in fact , some of it include fill pothole in London — I do not think it be just north London , either . although the headline figure mask the fact that the money be spread over 11 year , as we establish at Transport question on Thursday , the average annual funding be equivalent to only a third of last year ' s increase in the backlog of local road repair . the consequence of these failure be not theoretical but all too real . community be be deny the huge economic opportunity that transport infrastructure project can deliver , and they be currently stick rely on creak victorian infrastructure . the reality be that this Government ' s track record on deliver nationally significant infrastructure project be woeful . today ' s debate should be an opportunity to review and to learn from what have go wrong after 14 year of delay , failure to deliver , constant policy change and contradiction . unlike this Government , Labour be committed to meet our climate obligation and to get Britain build again . we recognise the need to address the bottleneck on our rail network to cut congestion and emission , which be why we have commit to a credible and transformative programme of transport infrastructure investment to link our town and city , particularly across the north and midland . we also recognise the need to deliver for driver by cut congestion , improve the state of public transport and remove the barrier that be block the electric vehicle charge infrastructure roll - out . labour will do what this Government have fail to do by reform the broken planning system to ensure that upgrade and progress on our transport infrastructure be actually deliver . labour ' s plan for government will accelerate infrastructure delivery , extend the reform in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 and ensure that the action plan for the nationally significant infrastructure project regime cover the Transport and Works Act 1992 , the Highways Act 1980 and the hybrid Bill process . we will encourage active travel , support public transport and give local authority the power to well integrate their local transport network . we have launch an independent review of transport infrastructure . drive by industry expert , the review will explore how transport infrastructure can be deliver on time and on budget , learn lesson from the mess that this Government have make of major project such as HS2 . we will update all national policy statement within six month of take office to ensure they help , not hinder , the construction of important transport infrastructure project . labour be serious about learn the lesson from the staggering failure of the last 14 year . we accept that this national policy statement improve on what come before in some area , which be why we will not oppose it today , but the Minister really should set out why he believe that the policy statement ' s lack of clarity on crucial point , particularly on climate change commitment , will not worsen the delay that be already slow our planning system to a crawl . if the Minister can not or will not provide those answer today , Labour will look again at the provision when we embark on our own review of the national policy statement . as we seek to ensure that we both respect our climate change commitment and deliver on our mission to get Britain build again , Labour do not accept the manage decline of our vital infrastructure . we will not accept barrier and blockage to the upgrade we need for smooth , green transport and to enable everyone to benefit from the enhance economic opportunity that will follow from well transport connection . Britain be the country that give the world the railway . we can and should be lead the world on deliver well , green transport infrastructure . in government , Labour will make that a reality . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . it be a pleasure to make a short contribution to this debate . as the Minister allude to , the Transport Committee conduct the scrutiny of the draft national network NPS . we conclude it in October last year and publish our recommendation . before I get into the substance of my remark , let I take this opportunity to place on record my grateful thank to the Clerk of the Committee , Judith Boyce , her team , all the adviser we have and the witness who give we evidence . particularly on topic that can be very technical , their support and guidance be invaluable , and I thank they all for help I in this work . the review of the NNNPS be overdue and I be glad that the Government appreciate that there be a need for an update . I be also grateful that they accept one of our central recommendation : that the NNNPS should be place on a five - yearly review , with a short review term if that be justify by policy change . that do not mean we should look forward to a complete handbrake turn revision of the NNNPS , but it be important that there be the opportunity to consider the wide policy environment and Government priority . I also very much welcome the Government ' s acceptance of some of our other recommendation , with the first be that the NNNPS should , for clarity , explicitly state the Government ' s understanding of the legal precedent for permit major infrastructure scheme that increase emission where that increase be judge as not likely to harm the achievement of a national target . secondly , the Government accept that they should publish their own estimate congestion forecast for the strategic road network . thirdly , they accept a reinstatement of word on site of special scientific interest . the draft do not contain that and without it developer may have be able to argue that the impact of a project on biodiversity would not need to be mitigate . I be particularly grateful that that wording have be reinstate . alongside the Government ' s response to our recommendation , we hear two welcome announcement . the first be of a review of the transport infrastructure legislation to seek more effective delivery of future nationally significant infrastructure project . perhaps most significant be the announcement by the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , who be in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , that a wide independent review would be set up , head by Lord Banner , on speed up the delivery of major infrastructure project . over many government , there have be a frustration that significant project require for the country take too long , so look at way to speed this up be very much to be welcome . I just want to caveat that welcome with a suggestion that we also need to look more widely at the strategic decision - make process for transport and related infrastructure . the NNNPS and the two review I mention look at the " how " of transport infrastructure project delivery but less at the " why " and the " should " . one recommendation we make , which the Government reject , be that they should be more transparent in the decision - make process on potential alternative to nationally significant infrastructure project choice . the rejection of that recommendation raise a concern with I , as transport project be not just put in place for the sake of it ; we do not build a new railway , road , port extension and so on just because it be good in itself . these project be there for a purpose ; they be there to support wide policy objective . be it in support trade , housing and economic regeneration , decarbonisation or many other thing , transport do not sit in glorious isolation from other policy objective . I question whether we , as a country , have have the right decision - make process in place , over many decade , to appraise and evaluate different project , in order to ensure join - up thinking on policy across Government . to help explore that , one of the Committee ' s current inquiry be on strategic transport objective . I do not yet have any recommendation to make , as we be still part way through that inquiry . it look at a number of issue in the round , include policy development , what decision should be make centrally or at a devolved level , and how to inject long - term certainty into the system to help lever in additional private investment . transport will always fall below more immediate and electorally saleable spending . whether that spending be on the health service , the police , defence or a range of other area , transport will always be low down the priority queue under any Government . by their very nature , project last well beyond the course of a single parliamentary or governmental term , so have that long - term perspective be important . in addition to our inquiry , the Liaison Committee be undertake an inquiry on strategic thinking to ensure the way that the Government be wire enable a long - term planning perspective . I want to place those point on the record . in a 90 - minute debate we be not go to be able to get into all the why s and wherefore , but I welcome the revision to the NNNPS and the two related review that the Government have announce . it be two cheer from I , though , because there be another element that we need to consider . I look forward to the work of my Committee and other contribute to that debate . it be a pleasure to be able to speak briefly in this afternoon ' s important debate on transport infrastructure . it be a great pleasure to follow the Chair of the Transport Committee , the hon . member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) . I will be brief , but I want to make a number of point to support the shadow Transport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) , and to highlight the importance of invest in infrastructure to support economic growth . first , I will raise a few point that matter to my constituent , some of which be immediate because they happen this week . there be severe delay on the great western main line yesterday . a number of colleague , myself and many thousand of commuter be leave wait for long period , in some case up to two hour , because of a problem with the electricity supply to the overhead wire . that have happen a number of time before for various reason . I urge the Minister to consult with the Rail Minister and feed back the serious concern of traveller on this vital piece of infrastructure . the line connect London with town in the south - east , such as Reading , and be of strategic importance across the whole UK , connect Wales , Bristol , the south - west and part of the midland with the capital city . it be vital that train traveller can rely on this excellent service , which normally allow swift and easy access to the heart of London . it be now support by the Elizabeth line , which be a huge benefit to we all . however , there have be a series of issue with the overhead wire , which I hope the Minister will flag up . will he or a colleague write to I to update I on the problem experience by passenger and to highlight the action be take to address they ? on a related issue of regional and national infrastructural importance , I want to flag up the importance of get a sensible policy on smart motorway . in my part of England , we have have a smart motorway instal along the M4 from west London as far west as Theale , just beyond read . unfortunately , the work be carry out use the revise specification , which put refuge up to a mile apart . in my opinion and that of many critic , that be too far apart to be genuinely safe . will the Minister look at that policy again ? other part of the south of England have be affect by a similar approach to upgrade the motorway , such as the M27 around Southampton , Portsmouth and neighbouring town . again , unfortunately , when the work be carry out , a revise spec be use rather than the original one , which have more frequent refuge point . will the Minister write to I and colleague on that matter , which be of great importance to our region and to the country as a whole ? those two significant issue relate to exist infrastructure . my third issue relate to forthcoming infrastructure . I urge the Minister to implore his colleague to get the Government ' s act together on the electrification of vehicle . obviously , the Government backtrack on the 2030 target — sadly and wrongly , in my opinion — and in addition they have make matter bad by not achieve the intermediate step they set out such as put in a suitable number of charge point at motorway service area . range anxiety continue to be a major problem and be delay the purchase and uptake of electric vehicle in many case . it would be good if the Minister update colleague on progress . I understand that the Government have not achieve their target of about six charging point in each service area — that seem a low bar — and that we may have something like four per service area on average at the moment . even if six be achieve , that would be way below the potential need for vehicle if they be truly to be electrify quickly and effectively so that we can hit our target for tackle the climate emergency and boost british production of electric car , which be a success story in our motor industry . those be some key strategic issue . if I may , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will mention some area not directly cover by the policy statement but that many consider strategic priority . we have the appalling state of the road network as a whole with the increase in pothole , which have possibly be exacerbate by heavy rain and frost this winter . that be a huge challenge for the country as a whole . it affect many motorist , with people have to pay for expensive repair , and it be a huge safety issue for both motorist and cyclist . I urge the Minister to look at that again , as well as at the speed at which the backlog in pothole be be tackle , and to support local authority take a more progressive and imaginative approach . my council , read Borough Council , have approach pothole with an " invest to save " mentality , do large section rather than just fill in individual pothole , and that seem to be tackle the backlog more effectively than some neighbouring authority — Oxfordshire and Wokingham in particular — which be somewhat behind with their pothole fill . other matter that many people see as strategically important but be not under the statement ' s remit include the encouraging of walk and cycling . only 1 % of the transport budget be spend on those important area , yet their benefit to the country be huge . as we hear early when consider the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill , shift people from car to cycling allow more road space for those who do have to drive — we be not able to create much more road space — take pollution out of the atmosphere , which be vital , and can improve road safety and people ' s health and fitness . that be hugely important for the country , yet it get only 1 % of transport spending . surely we should be look at that again and try to encourage it . that include improve safety in particular for pedestrian and for woman at night by improve lighting , crossing and other measure . in my constituency , I commend local councillor , and will cross in Redlands ward in particular , who have ably champion the need for a pedestrian crossing on Upper Redlands Road . it should not take that much effort from a dedicated councillor to deliver something like that ; it should be much more routine , with more pot of money available , and be consider in aggregate a national priority . even if individual scheme be small , their overall effect be significant . thank you for indulge I slightly on those last few point , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the chance to speak and appreciate the Minister offer to write to I on some of the more immediate and significant matter . I have just a short contribution to make . the " National Networks National Policy Statement " refer at paragraph 3 . 2 to the fact that " Population growth and economic growth be the most critical influence on travel demand . " we know that the Government be much preoccupied with the need for economic growth . I wish they well , and I hope that we make a lot more progress than we have , particularly in economic growth per capita in the last 10 year . however , on the other aspect , we do not have any national policy statement about population growth , yet it be fundamental to all policy making do in government and in this House . why do we not have a national policy statement about population growth ? how be it that we have , by happenstance , allow our population to increase by the good part of another million over the past 18 month ? how can that continue ? there be a reference in the document to project growth over the next 20 or 30 year , but there be no basis for that . it seem to I that underlie all our policymake should be a policy about population growth . how many people do we wish to have in our country ? what do we think be the sustainable maximum population ? how be that population go to be look after in term of the age profile ? be we encourage more of our own people in this country to have child and sustain the population in that way , as they do very effectively in Hungary ? or do we have a different policy , which , effectively , be to import labour into this country , thereby increase the population exponentially ? I be not expect my hon . friend the Minister to come up with a definitive answer on this , but I think the point be worth raise . why be it that we have a national policy statement on national network , but we do not have one on population growth ? I hope , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we will be able to get one quite soon . once again , the Government seem to be dodge scrutiny . this national policy statement for national network have significant implication for the delivery of our climate and environment target , yet rather than give mp the opportunity to properly debate it , this Government have , it feel to I at least , rather cynically leave the approval of it to the very last minute before the Easter recess , when many colleague have already return to their constituency . there be barely 10 people here in the Chamber this afternoon . there be many concern , in my view , about this particular statement , but I wish to focus in my brief intervention on the climate and nature consequence . as the Minister be well aware , when the review of the NPS be announce in July 2021 , it be explain by the then Secretary of State on the basis that the 2014 NPS predate the UK ' s commitment to net zero by 2050 , the sixth carbon budget and the transport decarbonisation plan . align the NPS with our climate target be , of course , absolutely essential , not least because about 10 % of the UK ' s CO2 emission come from drive on the strategic road network and , accord to the National Audit Office , transport - relate emission between 1990 and 2022 be reduce by just 11 % — the low of any sector . there be a real problem here and , frankly , this policy statement fundamentally fail to rise to the occasion and to the challenge that that pose . in its 2023 progress report to Parliament , the Committee on Climate Change recommend what it call " a systematic review of all current and propose road scheme " , with only those that " meaningfully support cost - effective delivery of Net Zero and climate adaptation " to be take forward . perhaps the Minister can explain to I why his Department have refuse to undertake any assessment , and why the NPS essentially revert to the current pre - net zero carbon test . in the absence of such a review , can he explain how he plan to close the gape delivery gap when it come to cut transport emission ? just last week , the Green Alliance think - tank publish the late update of its net zero policy tracker , which reveal that transport account for 70 % — yes , 70 % — of the overall policy gap for deliver the fifth carbon budget , so this be a huge issue , with 37 % of the require emission cut have absolutely no policy set out for they . crucially , Green Alliance suggest that measure such as review road building and redirect funding into public transport would help to close the policy gap , so why be it not in this plan ? rather than make our constituent ever more dependent on private car , this NPS should have set out the need for bold rail and urban transport upgrade . it should have be about level up public transport outside London and improve cross - country rail . the first priority of the transport decarbonisation plan be modal shift , yet the NPS have no target for that . in fact , seven of the eight Department for Transport scenario on which it be base assume exactly the wrong kind of modal shift — in other word , a shift to car . will the Minister explain why the statement do not reference the 2030 target for 50 % of urban journey to be make by active travel ? look at our environmental target , it be profoundly disappointing that the NPS fail to set out the implication of the new Environment Act 2021 target at the strategic or scheme level . it be just not good enough to simply have due regard to some of the target . not only be this NPS unclear — as observe by Professor Stephen Glaister , former chair of the Office of Rail and Road and director of the RAC Foundation , who tell mp that " I do not see clarity in that draft myself " but it fundamentally fail to set out a new direction of travel to ensure the delivery of our climate and environmental target . in the age of climate crisis , we need more than pass reference to net zero and muddle attempt to justify the road programme . we need urgent and bold action to decarbonise the transport system . this statement clearly do not provide that . I will try to address some of the point that have be raise . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) , mention freight . he will be aware that we publish the future freight strategy , which be a long - term plan , in June 2022 . it be develop with industry and set out a cross - modal approach to achieve the long - term vision of a freight and logistic sector that be economically efficient , reliant , resilient , environmentally sustainable and value by society . I be the co - chair of the Freight Council , alongside Isabel Dedring , who be an independent industry representative . the " Generation Logistics " campaign , which we host in the House of Commons , and the work that the Road Haulage Association and other be do to drive forward true change in freight should genuinely be admire . turn to the point raise by the Chair of the Transport Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) , I take his two out of three cheer as be damn by faint praise . however , at the same time , no one be pretend that the statement be perfect . it be a work in progress — we all understand that . the document run to over 100 page and have be available for public consultation and oral hearing , and the Transport Committee have do an assessment of it , to which the Government have respond , so with respect , it be a substantial approach to this particular issue . I endorse the comment that he make about the future plan . the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , whom I will insult by call a friend of mine , raise a number of point , and I will ensure that the Rail Minister respond to he . on the electrification of vehicle , I push back gently . one have to be aware that the network of publicly available charge point be rapidly increase , with almost 57 , 000 instal — a 47 % increase since March 2023 . clearly , more can be do — no one would dispute that — and I echo and share his desire . he make the fair point that we need more charging point , and I take that on board . as for the great western delay , the Rail Minister will respond on that . the hon . member for Reading East and other raise the state of the road . the allegation be make that there be no vision either to support local authority or to address that , and that there be no long - term levelling - up plan for the north . with respect , the Prime Minister ' s decision on HS2 have do a number of key thing . the first , obviously , be that £ 8 . 3 billion have go out to local authority up and down the country , respond to the HS2 profile over 11 year . on average , that be a 30 % increase in funding over the past year for every local authority — genuinely game - change amount of money — and the long - term funding pattern allow local authority to invest in the future . that be something that every local authority say it want more of . turn to the aspiration to support the north , one of the key decision be to ensure that almost all of the HS2 money be spend in the north and / or the midland as the area affect by HS2 . that be why the money be go into Network North and into the local transport fund that be announce , which have see hundred of million of pound go out to lot of different local authority . some local authority have see their transport budget increase by nine time . the type of announcement that the Government have make also outline their direction of travel in relation to this issue . with respect , I will outline five thing that the Government have do in the past 10 day alone . I be proud to announce the safe road fund , which be spend a furth £ 35 million in multiple location across the country to try to enhance their road safety . last Friday , the Secretary of State announce the ZEBRA scheme — for those who do not know , that be the zero - emission bus regional area . there be dozen of location up and down the country with hundred of zero - emission bus fund and support by this Government . on Saturday , I announce active travel fund 4 , which be worth £ 101 million , and see some of the scheme that be be put in place in Darlington with the excellent Mayor , Ben Houchen , and my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . I have also be with my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) to see the £ 1 . 2 million that be go into the Medway active travel scheme . clearly , the Automated Vehicles Bill be something that this Government have also champion . hear , hear ! my hon . friend and co - Minister , and partner in optimism — I think that be the good way of put it — be address some of those point . there be further criticism in relation to the issue of climate change . I would gently push back : clearly , there have be a lot of change in Government policy since the national network national policy statement be designate in 2015 , particularly the Government ' s commitment to achieve net zero by 2050 . the transport decarbonisation plan , publish in 2021 , set out how transport ' s contribution to net zero will be deliver , and the Environment Act 2021 introduce a more stringent approach to environmental protection and opportunity for enhancement of the natural environment . we have also see the publication of road investment strategy 2 and the integrated rail plan , as well as support for rail freight , include the announcement of the rail freight growth target in December 2023 . the NNNPS have be review to reflect those change in Government policy and to remain a robust framework for decision making on nationally significant infrastructure project scheme . clearly , there be ongoing challenge in certain court to the development of road , and we await the decision of those court . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) tempt I to become the Home Secretary . as we all know , the chance of that be our old friend slim and none , but I will take up with the Home Secretary the question of whether there should be a population growth assessment . I thank all colleague for their contribution today . will the Minister give way ? no . I genuinely commend the NNNPS , which be a mighty piece of work , to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House approve the National Policy Statement for National Networks , which be lay before this House on 6 March . recommendation of the Infected Blood Inquiry I wish to present a petition on behalf of those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal , particularly on behalf of my constituent Mary Grindley and Lee Moorey . Lee be a pupil at the Treloar ' s boarding school , where many child with haemophilia be give contaminate blood product . Mary be married to her husband John , who die of AIDS age 41 . Mary have campaign tirelessly for justice for her husband and thousand like he for over 40 year . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Eltham , declare that people who have receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002934 ] I rise to present this petition , owe to the Budget ' s failure to allocate any money to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . the final compensation recommendation be make by Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood public inquiry , in April 2023 . this House vote in December to establish a body to pay compensation , as an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . with two victim of the scandal die every week , on average , justice delay be justice deny . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock Declares that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain etc . [ p002946 ] Petition - Rent and service charge increase in Lewisham East I rise to present this petition on behalf of Phoebe ' s Place resident in Lewisham East . it recognise that my constituent who live in shared ownership housing in Catford be be affect by rent increase of 9 % and service charge increase of up to 62 % by their housing provider , Moat Housing . I understand that the building need to be maintain . however , this huge rise be not the fault of the resident , and Moat Housing must ensure that resident be not leave with sudden unexpected cost . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons call for Moat Housing to review its decision , and that any increase this year and in future year remain at very least in line with inflation . follow be the full text of the petition : the petition of resident of the constituency of Lewisham East , [ declare that Moat Housing have write to inform the resident in Phoebe ' s Place , SE6 2fa , which be develop in 2021 of 27 Flats as part of the affordable housing scheme , regard increase in rent range from 8 . 6 % to 9 . 4 % , and increase in service charge , range from 30 . 3 % to 65 % ; note that this exceed current level of inflation ; and far that the petitioner believe that the propose rent and service charge increase be not justified nor affordable . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on Moat Housing to review their decision and that any increase in this year and in future year remain at the very least in line with inflation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002948 ] Public Transport : Carshalton and Wallington Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) Mr Deputy Speaker , as we approach the recess , may I wish you and all colleague a very happy Easter ? today , I would like to address the adequacy of public transport in my Carshalton and Wallington constituency , which be one of the bad borough for public transport connectivity in Greater London . be able to move around quickly and conveniently , as well as easily to commute to job and business across London , be vital for a vibrant economy and community , and my constituent live on the edge of London and Surrey deserve the same level of connectivity that the rest of our capital enjoy . I would like to mention a variety of area of public transport from train to bus , the Overground and , of course , our road . there be also area where transport provision could be much strengthen , and I will no doubt touch on some of those a little later . my constituent in Carshalton and Wallington have be deprive of consistent and reliable public transport by the Mayor of London , back up by a Liberal Democrat council . rather than help improve our connectivity , the Mayor and the council have oversee the shelving of the tram extension ; the scrapping entirely of the Go Sutton bus ; the possibility of reduce bus service such as the 410 ; the scrapping of the 455 , and replace it with an inconvenient exist route ; and all this while bring in the so - call Superloop , which be just the rebranding of an exist bus route . before the pandemic , I and my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) be keen to begin discussion on an extension to the London Overground from West Croydon to Sutton , but the sheer mismanagement of TfL ' s finance by the Mayor mean that be now unlikely . to almost no one ' s surprise , the Mayor be asleep at the wheel , otherwise occupy with his vanity project , and too busy impose the ultra low emission zone on my constituent . he seem content to leave my constituency strand without a public transport system that it can be proud of . since the pandemic , rail service to station at Carshalton , Wallington , Hackbridge and Carshalton Beeches have be run at a reduced level . regular , consistent service be vital to connect my constituent with employment , education and essential service in other part of London , and of course Surrey . that reduced service mean few train from Carshalton to London Victoria . indeed , something like half the exist service be run , which have mean a significant reduction in accessibility and convenience . off - peak service from Carshalton Beeches and Wallington to West Croydon and beyond have be reduce from six to four train per hour . fortunately , Thameslink service to Blackfriars have remain unchanged , which offer some semblance of stability , but the overall picture paint a concern narrative of dwindle connectivity and accessibility for my constituent . I have long campaign for , and be successful in convince rail operator to restore , some of the peak - time service post covid , as well as extend the number of carriage on some peak - time service . however , those service be still too far from what they use to be , and my mailbag be often fill with correspondence from constituent who have be unable to board extremely busy weekend rail service make up of just four or five carriage . I would appreciate any support the Minister can provide to help convince rail operator to restore more peak - time rail service , as well as adequate number of carriage on train and adequate weekend service . stay on the topic of rail , I wish to thank Network Rail and Govia Thameslink Rail , which operate Southern and Thameslink , for their continued engagement with I in a number of different area . one of those be the southbound platform at Hackbridge station , and we have now secure funding to fix what I call the Hackbridge gap problem . that gap be a huge step down from train to platform . it be extremely dangerous , and many people have fall down . the issue have become so serious that some people have have to travel on to the next stop at Carshalton , and come back to Hackbridge via the northbound line because they simply do not feel safe disembarking from Hackbridge station . I be glad that we have secure funding to do that , and I look forward to see the project get under way . I have also be campaign hard for step - free access to the southbound platform at Carshalton Beeches station . we have put in several Access for all application over the year , and I hope that the Minister will give some indication as to when the next round might be available for comment . I sincerely hope that we will be successful this time round , so that once again people do not have to travel on to Sutton , the next station , and come back to Carshalton Beeches the other way in order to disembark safely . move slightly outside my constituency , if I may , another area that would greatly improve transport for my constituent — indeed , this be probably the major sticking point when it come to increase rail capacity for my constituency and most of suburban London — be the Croydon area remodelling scheme , which be the major junction on the Brighton main line and the suburban rail network in south London and the home county . the project do a number of thing . it would upgrade East Croydon station and the surround rail infrastructure to enhance capacity and efficiency , and it encompass several pivotal element , include the revitalisation and renovation of the station itself , the remodelling of Selhurst junction , which be where train be become congest , and the expansion of railway track north of East Croydon . the capacity issue that that project would resolve be often the stick point for run more rail service in the region . indeed , GTR and Network Rail have speak regularly about their ambition to make suburban rail service a lot more like the metro system that we have on the London underground — a sort of turn - up - and - go system , rather than the strict and limited timetable we currently have . by deliver on the Croydon area remodelle scheme , or the Croydon bottleneck , we would help alleviate the congestion , which would be good not just for my constituent , but for the majority of London and the south - east . it would unlock rail capacity all the way down to Brighton and part of the south coast , as well as in the capital . in the word of the Rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) : " in the current economic context , it be more important than ever for the enhancement scheme we take forward to be affordable and respond to change in demand for travel " . that be exactly what the Croydon area remodelling scheme would deliver . moreover , as we await update to the rail network enhancement pipeline , it be essential to acknowledge the broad context in which the Croydon area remodelle scheme operate . the Government ' s commitment to rail enhancement , show through the Network North announcement , reflect an effort to modernise and expand railway infrastructure across the country , and they should be commend for that . the Croydon area remodelle scheme would bring a more efficient , sustainable and interconnected transport network to London and the south - east , and show clear improvement , not least to rail capacity , for my constituent in Carshalton and Wallington . finally , I want to talk about connectivity by road , which be still the most common form of transport in my constituency . the one thing that be attack my constituent the most and cause they the most grief be the dreaded expansion of the ultra low emission zone . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , who bring in a Bill to overturn ULEZ . it be incredibly welcome that the Government give it their backing , but very disappointing that Labour and the Liberal Democrats try to prevent the Bill from progress . in fact , Labour Members talk out the Bill to prevent its passage through this House . as the Secretary of State have rightly say , ULEZ be a cruel form of taxation affect the poor in society and hit heavily those who have old motor vehicle that they simply can not afford to upgrade , with or without a scrappage scheme . my constituent regularly raise their concern about ULEZ with I , and I completely agree with they . as I have stress , the Mayor fail to acknowledge the poor connectivity of Carshalton and Wallington . on top of that , he have decide to tax the most hard - work , poor londoner . it be time that the pollution argument that be often make when it come to ULEZ be eradicate . genuine concern for the environment would involve a complete ban of non - compliant vehicle , not a charge to use they . provide that Khan find himself with an additional £ 12 . 50 per car in the TfL coffer , people can drive as they please . the evidence be clear from the Mayor ' s own impact assessment and assessment that have be do since that this be not about air quality , but about the Mayor ' s inability to manage TfL ' s finance . the expansion scheme be roundly reject by the people of London , as can be evidence through his consultation , yet the Mayor , back by the Lib Dems and the Greens in City Hall , all gleefully vote in favour of it . in fact , the Lib Dems boast that it be their idea in the first place . the Mayor go ahead with this tax on motorist , and he do not even mention it in his manifesto to get elect . I urge caution to those voter who be now be tell by the Mayor that he will not bring in any more charge if he get re - elected — do not believe it . we know that the Mayor of London be currently look , and have employ people in TfL to look , at a pay - per - mile scheme , which mean that every single car driver in Greater London will be charge not only for use their car , no matter whether it be compliant , but for how long and how far they drive it . we must reject that . we must get rid of the Mayor of London on 2 May and replace he with someone who will not charge car driver , and that be Susan Hall . between 26 September and 6 November , in the early stage of the expand ULEZ , something like 2 , 700 fine be issue in Sutton , and nearly 100 , 000 in London as a whole , once again prove that ULEZ be simply a money - make scheme . I have hear from many of my constituent that they have not be accept for the scrappage scheme . only about a third of application in my borough have be accept so far , yet these people simply can not afford to upgrade their vehicle . that place a huge burden on people and be a threat to their livelihood . the ULEZ charge mean that elderly people be isolate in their home because they can not afford to get in the car and leave , and people be not come to visit they . small business either have to pass the £ 12 . 50 charge on to their customer or absorb it , at a time when they be struggle as well . it mean the Royal Marsden cancer hospital have to refund cancer patient £ 12 . 50 a day to come to Sutton to receive treatment for cancer . the NHS should not be have to reimburse ulez charge to cancer patient . there should not be ulez charge on cancer patient , and yet that be the reality we live with in Sutton . nurse , doctor , teacher , parent , charity and business be all be affect by the ULEZ charge , and hard - work londoner deserve well . to conclude , I ask the Minister whether he will continue to work with I to see what we can do to improve public transport connectivity at a time when the Mayor be clearly not interested in do so , and when the Lib Dems give up on my area a long time ago . I very much welcome the Minister . he have be a great friend to Carshalton and Wallington . he have visit before in other Government role , so I would be delighted to welcome he back to see the transport opportunity in Carshalton and Wallington . will the Minister reiterate from the Dispatch Box that the Mayor ' s unwanted ULEZ charge on Londoners do not help my constituent ? Labour should have back the Bill promote by my hon . friend the Member for Dartford last week . the ULEZ charge place a burden on people at a time when they can least afford it . we should be look to increase the public transport connectivity of London , rather than attack those who can not change to an alternative . I call the ever - present Minister , Guy Opperman . there be a sense of d é j à vu for you and I , Mr Deputy Speaker , because the last debate before the House rise for Christmas feature yourself as the Deputy Speaker ; the Transport Parliamentary Private Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) , honourably fight the fight on behalf of the Department for Transport ; and my good self , make the case at the Dispatch Box on an Adjournment debate . it be a privilege and honour to be the last Minister to speak at the Dispatch Box before Easter . I echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) , who say at the outset that we need to wish everybody in the House who work so hard to keep we safe in this place that we cherish , love and adore a very happy Easter and a gentle rest over the Easter holiday , so that we all emerge recharge , reboot and ready to keep the flavour of democracy alive on an ongoing basis , because that really matter . have the opportunity to address the House , make the case for democracy and for individual constituent , and bring their concern , hope , fear and aspiration to this place be something we should all cherish and adore . it be a great honour and privilege to respond to my hon . friend . I have visit his constituency in the past ; I would be delighted to visit it again , and I look forward to do so in the next few week . to answer his three point at the outset before I get into the nut and bolt of the issue , I would be delighted to work with he on the cause he have set out and delight to visit soon . I be also delighted to make the case that ULEZ be a blunt instrument , and we will discuss that in a bit more detail , although I assure the House that we will not spend the next two hour and seven minute discuss it . ULEZ be a blunt instrument that need to be take in the context of the individual circumstance of the Londoners and outer londoner whom it affect . it need to take into account the impact it have on low - income and public sector worker , because the stat on that be genuinely horrifying . it be not something — with great respect — that be be deal with sensitivity . it be not be do under the Mayor ' s manifesto . I be the Minister who respond to the Bill last Friday on behalf of the Government , and I will touch on that in some detail . my hon . friend raise a number of issue , which I want to address . the first be the issue of the Mayor and his finance because , as my hon . friend will be aware and as the Secretary of State have put on the record in writing , the Mayor have to be bail out by a multibillion - pound settlement due to his mismanagement of his fund . clearly , that have have an impact on the provision of bus service , which be key . as the Minister for bus , I be passionate about bus and the growth in bus service post covid . I be alarmed and concerned to hear about the litany of bus service that have be lose in my hon . friend ' s constituency due to the action of the Mayor . I regret to say that I have no power whatsoever to intervene in the mayoral zone to address any of the bus loss or to nudge individual operator to make change . I will come to rail in a second , because we have some power there . I know that my hon . friend have work with the Rail Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , in copious detail to address those issue . that be the reality of the mayoral situation on bus , and it be of great concern . only yesterday , I meet my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) to have an hour - long discussion with bus operator to thrash out difficulty and try to find a way for the bus service improvement plan and bus service operator grant to address particular issue . that ability do not exist , unless the Mayor provide the right sort of assistance and prioritise the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington . on bus , regretfully I be powerless to intervene , but his constituent have the ultimate power to do so , and I urge they to do that for the reason that he set out and that I utterly endorse . I put my backing behind Susan Hall . I know that my hon . friend have work with the Rail Minister over a period of time to try to improve and enhance the rail service that his constituent sometimes have enjoy and sometimes have not . as someone who commute in from south London when I be here in Westminster , I have experience some of that pain . I accept that there be ongoing difficulty , some of which have be address — he rightly identify the company that have assist he and play ball . we be at about 85 % of pre - covid number . I assure he that the Rail Minister be happy to meet he , operator and particular cohort of constituent and councillor to discuss potential improvement and further ongoing work that can be do . my hon . friend raise the important issue of the Croydon area remodelle scheme . I agree that it be clearly a massive improvement and enhancement that we should get behind . such an investment will be a massive improvement and be of wide benefit to his constituent . on the other rail and infrastructure project , he talk about Govia Thameslink Railway — GTR . he have work closely with that operator on the service that it provide , particularly the busy weekend service between Carshalton and London Victoria , which be vital . he rightly make the point that timetable change will take effect from June 2024 , and service will run with eight to 10 carriage , rather than five as some do previously . I be sure that he will welcome the additional capacity for passenger use those service . we require all train operator to continually review the service they provide so that their timetable reflect change passenger demand , carefully balance cost , capacity and performance . my hon . friend raise Access for all , which he have champion repeatedly . he would love I to triumphantly pull out the Oscar - win envelope from this Dispatch Box and confirm the campaign that he have fight for so assiduously for so long . I regret that I can not do that today , but in time - honour tradition I can confirm that the next announcement on extend Access for all and improve rail accessibility will be make very shortly . he have make his case repeatedly . if he have not again meet the Rail Minister who oversee that issue , I will personally communicate that to he , so that he fully understand how much it matter to my hon . friend ' s constituent and how brilliantly he have make the case . on ULEZ , there be a number of myth I want to address . we need a genuine discussion on this issue . my hon . Friend spend about five minute of his speech on it , and I want to spend some time on it in response . the principle of have a clean air zone in the centre of a city be , I think , utterly without dispute . the Government legislate for that , and local authority and mayor agree with it . for those of we who be right in the heart of the city in Westminster , the original congestion zone make total sense and be fully understandable . there be an argument — it be a hard argument to make , but there be an argument — that there be authority to extend it out to the south circular and the north circular , and that that would be a wide congestion zone . but it be patently clear from read the present Mayor of London ' s manifesto — I spend rather too long read it ; an hour and a bit of my life I will never get back — that there be no argument whatever for the extension that have take place . my hon . friend rightly talk about the consultation and the response to it . the good I can do be make two point . first , take the congestion zone in Bristol , which be clearly relatively successful . it be introduce with due consideration of business and people live in the heart of the city , try to keep a vibrant city go . that congestion zone be one mile by two — basically , two square mile . the London congestion zone have now go up to approximately 600 square mile . it be 50 mile by 50 mile . the impact on the wide economy of London — park for a moment the air quality , because he rightly address that — be obviously massive . everybody who live and work in London can see that . it have have a tremendous impact on the business that we all want to support . secondly , there be a democratic deficit . when the ULEZ be extend so far out to those on the outer limit of London and those who live beyond the London boundary , they be clearly penalise in a very significant way . more particularly , the penalty fall on two group . I take this from its own impact assessment , as I and other set out in the House on Friday . it fall on the low - income group and on public sector worker — surely the bad group to be try to penalise with an extra tax . anybody who know anything about the public sector know it be really hard to get NHS worker , care worker and police officer in central London . I could go on . the Minister be absolutely right about public sector worker . I mention that the Royal Marsden Hospital be have to refund ulez charge to cancer patient . one other point we must surely consider be that something like half of all Metropolitan police officer live outside the geographical area of Greater London . no wonder people do not feel that they can come and work in the city if they have to pay £ 12 . 50 a day . do the Minister agree that ULEZ will surely have an adverse effect on crime in London if the majority of our officer have to travel in and pay £ 12 . 50 a day to police our street ? my hon . friend have brilliant eyesight , because he can see the highlighted passage I be about to read out , show that 50 % of police officer in the Metropolitan police area live outside the London boundary and commute in . the percentage for all emergency worker be probably not far off that . there be no doubt that there will be a recruitment issue in all those sector . I have spend three and a half week of my life in St Thomas ' Hospital , require intensive care — and on not one but two occasion , because I be so accident prone . someone may require overnight nursing care , for example , and a nurse come into London from outside will be penalise on the day she come in , and when she leave her night shift she will be penalise again . she will be land with a double whammy of a ULEZ charge — and then we be surprised that London hospital be struggle to retain staff . be there evidence that ULEZ be make a dramatic difference to air quality ? the evidence that have be set out in a variety of way suggest that improvement be minimal in some respect , especially in the outer reach . be there an impact on the economy ? definitely : there be a negative impact . be there an impact on public service , public sector worker and the low - income people who , accord to the impact assessment , will be more affect by ulez expansion ? there be not a shadow of a doubt that that be the case . I do not want to get too political on the last day before the Easter recess , but my hon . Friend ask what would happen in the future , and the idea that the present Mayor will not expand the impact of the ULEZ be for the bird . it be a bit like ask , " be there moustache in Mexico ? " or " do bear go to the toilet in the wood ? " we both know that what the Mayor be propose to do be to extend the present proposal in a variety of way . the key point that be make on Friday by my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , my right hon . friend the Members for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Sir David Evennett ) and for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) — from a sedentary position — and various colleague from Watford be that great thought should be give to the benefit of this public policy as against the massive burden that be be impose . we must clearly consider why we be do this on an ongoing basis . my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington remain a massive champion of this issue , and I should be delighted to see the change that he seek . of course , the Rail Minister will continue to work with he , and good work be be do . we want to continue to support he and his constituent . I commend he for bring the debate to the House before Easter , and I commend his effort on behalf of his constituent . on behalf of Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers , I echo the word of the Minister and Elliot Colburn in wish a very happy Easter to everyone who work here to ensure that our democracy progress . I hope that they will get together with their family and friend , and to those who sadly can not do that because they be provide service to the rest of we , I say a great thank you on behalf of the nation . question put and agree to . House adjourn .