business before Questions Contingencies Fund Account 2024 - 25 Ordered , that there be lay before this House an Account of the Contingencies Fund 2024 - 25 , show : ( 1 ) a statement of Financial Position ( 2 ) a statement of cash flow and ( 3 ) note to the Accounts ; together with the Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General thereon . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — antisemitism on University Campuses what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of standwithus UK ' s " Voice of Students 2024 / 25 " report on antisemitism on university campus . I thank the hon . gentleman for highlight the report by StandWithUs UK . antisemitism have no place in our lecture hall , campus and university , and no place in our society . university must be place where all student feel safe and respected , and be able to thrive . a week ago today , I bring together university vice - chancellor and community leader to hear testimonial from jewish student , and to discuss next step to ensure safe and more inclusive campus for all our student . what standwithus UK set out in its report into antisemitism and support for terrorism at british university be a source of national shame . it be high time that we heed the stipulation in the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ' s definition that so - call anti - Zionism be nothing less that anti - jewish racism . I urge the Secretary of State to reiterate that crucial point and ask whether she will commit to enact the report ' s important recommendation , include introduce a framework of escalate financial penalty for university that fail to safeguard their jewish student from such hateful intolerance and extremism . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that incredibly important issue that we , as a Government , take extremely seriously , because no student should be subject to antisemitism on university campus or in any place in our education system . that be why we have commit £ 7 million of funding to address antisemitism in education . half a million pound of that have already be award to University jewish Chaplaincy to support student welfare on university campus . that run alongside the new condition of registration from the Office for Students that will ensure we protect student from harassment and discrimination . give my experience of work with the Holocaust Educational Trust in school in Mansfield , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that the history of the Holocaust will be teach in school follow the passage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which the Conservatives oppose . I can give that confirmation to my hon . friend . I join he in pay tribute to the Holocaust Educational Trust for its work to shine a light on antisemitism at the moment in our country , but also to ensure that we learn the lesson of history . I say to my hon . friend that yes , we have give that undertaking , ahead of the conclusion of the curriculum and assessment review , to ensure that all our young people learn and understand the lesson of the Holocaust , which be more important now than be ever the case . Employer National Insurance Contributions : School Redundancies what estimate she have make of the potential impact of increase in employer national insurance contribution on the number of redundancy in school . I be pleased to inform the House that the Government be over a third of the way to meet our plan for change milestone : compare to last year , we have over 2 , 300 more teacher in school and over 1 , 000 more in training . whether on private school tax break or on teacher recruitment and retention , the Conservatives ' scaremongere be not come to fruition , but they continue to talk down our education system , to be disconnect from reality and to be wrong . may I update the Minister , who seem to be very complacent on this issue ? in Harrow , where I have be out to see many of our school , since we pass the resignation date , vacancy be not be fill and many staff feel threatened with be make redundant from our school . that be not good for our child or for the education system . all the school say that these issue be because of the national insurance hike that have take place , which be penalise school budget . will the Minister take action to ensure that money be provide to enable school to recruit the staff that we need ? there be absolutely no complacency on the Government Benches — we see complacency over the past 10 year , and we be pick up the piece and fix the system . we have commit significant funding to school . we be provide mainstream school and high need setting with over £ 930 million to support they with increase in national insurance contribution . at the spring Budget , we announce additional funding to the tune of £ 4 . 7 billion per year by 2028 - 29 , compare with 2025 - 26 . we be support school to get on and improve education , create excellent outcome for every child , and we will continue to do so . I very much welcome the 2 , 300 extra teacher that Labour ' s plan for change have see in our school , but school support staff be just as important as teacher in ensure the delivery of the well - run school we have in Ealing Southall . will the Minister update the House on progress in reinstate the school support staff negotiate body , which be abolish by the conservative party in 2010 ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the fantastic work do in our school not only by teacher , but by all school staff . one of the first thing we do in Government be to introduce legislation to bring back the school support staff negotiate body , to ensure that those staff be recognise for their vital work and that they be part of the conservation about term , condition and pay . that process be under way in Parliament , and we be in strong negotiation on a continuous basis through our improve education together plan , which allow stakeholder to get around the table . I call the shadow Minister . the last Conservative Government add 27 , 000 extra teacher . although we would never know it from the Minister ' s answer , there be 400 few teacher in our school than last year . Labour promise 6 , 500 more teacher , but it be ignore the loss of 2 , 900 primary school teacher , because apparently they do not count . the loss of teacher be not a coincidence . the Confederation of School Trusts and the Association of School and College Leaders have show that school have be leave up to 35 % short in compensation for the national insurance rise . will Ministers finally admit that they break their promise to fully compensate school for that tax rise ? I think the hon . Gentleman ' s math need a bit of work . he will know as well as anybody that pupil number in primary be down and keep on fall , yet recruit and retain expert teacher be crucial to this Government ' s mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . that be why we have commit to recruit 6 , 500 additional expert teacher , and we be target they at the sector in which they be most need . it be not the Government ' s fault that those on the Opposition Front Bench do not seem to be able to add up or pay proper attention . smartphone in Schools if she will take step to stop the use of smartphone in school . if she will take step to stop the use of smartphone in school . mobile phone have no place in our school . government guidance be clear that school should prohibit the use of device with smart technology throughout the school day . if pupil fail to follow those rule , school have the power to confiscate device to ensure that classroom be free from disruption . school with a smartphone ban be rate higher by Ofsted , and their student achieve well gcse result . all the evidence show the benefit of ban smartphone in school , but the Government be simply issue non - statutory guidance and pass the buck . do the Minister not understand the evidence ? do he need more evidence , or do he not trust the Government to be able to implement a ban on smartphone in school ? I will take no lecture from the Conservatives on this issue . when they be in government , they exclaim that the same guidance mean a consistent approach across school . I have to ask : if they be wrong then , be they wrong now ? mobile phone in classroom be link to disruptive and violent behaviour . do the Minister agree that mobile phone should be ban in all school so that child be focus on their education , not glue to Instagram and TikTok ? I repeat my early answer : legislation be not necessary , because school already have the power to ban phone in school , and the majority have choose to do so . from speak with former teaching colleague and local school leader , I know that the impact that powerful school policy to restrict the use of smartphone and keep they out of school can have be really clear . fantastic work have be do on that , include by Hitchin boy ' school in my constituency , but sadly not all school be meet this high standard in ensure that they have robust and well - enforce policy . how can we ensure that we be spread this good practice to every school across the country ? would the Minister love to visit Hitchin boy ' school in my seat so that he can see at first hand the fantastic work it be do ? I think that show that school actually have the power to do this . it be worth say that everyone , include parent , school and provider , be responsible for ensure that child be aware of the importance of internet safety . we encourage school to consult and to build on that support with parent to develop a policy that work in the context and that keep child and young people safe . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State may dismiss ban smartphone in school as a gimmick , but teacher , health professional and parent be all call for action to reduce child ' s screen time . every day we have new evidence of the harm that screen be do , so why be the Education Secretary ignore that and press ahead with screen - base assessment for child as young as four from September ? do she accept that that be normalise screen time for young people , which be the opposite of what we should be do ? be that all that the right hon . Lady can go on ? after 14 year , the Conservatives break the education system . as I say , guidance be already in place for school , and the majority of school already have a ban on mobile phone use . School Estate what step she be take to help improve the school estate . what step her Department be take to improve the quality of school building . this Government be commit to sustained investment to improve the school estate , in order to give child the good start in life . we will increase annual capital investment for maintenance in real term , rise from £ 2 . 1 billion this financial year to around £ 2 . 3 billion in 2029 - 30 — over £ 400 million more than in 2024 - 25 . that be on top of around £ 2 . 4 billion per year over the next four year to 2029 - 30 to continue the school rebuilding programme in over 500 school . we will go far by expand the programme , provide long - term certainty through to 2034 - 35 , and we will set out detail in the forthcoming 10 - year infrastructure strategy . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer . I draw his attention to the process for get some of that funding . Battling Brook be a small primary school in the heart of Hinckley . it be well love , but it have have problem with two of its classroom have damp and fall into disrepair , so the school can not use they . it apply to the condition improvement fund but be decline . the school feel that the goalpost have be shift ; there be a six - month delay in the condition datum collection report , so it be mark down , and this all culminate in Battling Brook not get the funding it need . will the Minister look at this case and have a meeting with I , so that I can go back to Battling Brook and make sure it get the funding it need to reopen its classroom in September for the primary school pupil of Hinckley ? the hon . Member have not be shy in lobby I on these issue , but I would be very happy to meet he again . he will know that the Department provide advice and support on a case - by - case basis , and I be happy to discuss these issue with he far . child at Wreningham and Brooke primary school be receive a first - class education from excellent teacher , despite still be teach from portacabin due to a lack of investment by the previous Government . I thank the Minister for already agree to meet I . it would be rude if I do not extend the same invite to he , so would he like to come and visit those two amazing school ? the Government do not want any school to be leave behind , include those serve rural community . that be why we have invest significantly in capital funding this year , with almost £ 5 . 5 million for Norfolk county council to invest in improve its estate , include Wreningham and Brooke primary school . I look forward to meet my hon . friend . small rural school in Cumbria have some of the old building that be most in need of repair , but also some of the most pressured budget . will the Minister consider set out a special budget aim at make sure we tackle repair backlog in small rural school , such as those in my constituency ? the hon . Member will know that ensure school and college get the resource and building they need be a key part of our mission to break down barrier to opportunity and ensure every young person can succeed and thrive . I would be very happy to meet he to discuss these issue far . I thank the Minister for have take the time to meet I and hear the case for Saint Benedict school to be rebuild to be more sustainable , safe and secure . the neighbour primary school , St Mary ' s , be the green in the UK and an incredible example of what a rebuild can do to inspire young mind . will the Minister visit both school to see , on the one hand , what have already be achieve in Derby , and on the other , the amazing opportunity we have to achieve so much more ? I be very pleased to meet my hon . friend to discuss Saint Benedict , which will benefit from transform building through the school rebuilding programme . this Government have commit to continue and expand that programme to improve the school estate and give child the good start in life . I know that my hon . friend be a real champion on these issue , and I would be very happy to discuss they far . school - base Nurseries what step she be take to expand school - base nursery . what step she be take to expand school - base nursery . what step she be take to expand school - base nursery . what step she be take to increase the number of school - base nursery place . school - base nursery be a key part of deliver on our plan for change by make high - quality early year education more accessible and affordable , so that every child get the good start in life . at the spending review , we announce almost £ 370 million for school - base nursery , on top of the £ 37 million already award to school . the Tories leave a childcare pledge without a plan , but this Labour Government be deliver on promise make to family , save work parent up to £ 7 , 500 a year . the Government have announce £ 37 million for the first round of school to expand nursery provision , support the roll - out of the extended 30 hour childcare offer in England , but the Public Childcare now campaign point out that nearly two third of the fund school be part of multi - academy trust . while we be fortunate not to have academy in Wales , concern remain that this model encourage privatisation , reduce accessibility and undermine staff pay and condition , contribute to great educational fragmentation . what assurance can the Minister offer that expand entitlement without invest in public infrastructure will not exacerbate these issue ? I be delighted that so many academy be take part in our school nursery programme . academy drive innovation across our system and be an important part of the system we have . of course , it be the last Labour Government who first bring about the academy programme to drive up performance in our school and to make sure that all our child get a brilliant education . sadly , we know that after 14 year of the Tories , far too many child , include in our most disadvantaged community , do not get the education they deserve . that be why our school White Paper later this year will make it a reality once and for all that they do . Swallow Dell primary in Welwyn Garden City be a fantastic school . I have have the privilege of meet the leadership team , who be ambitious for every single child . they have a state nursery as part of the school , but they be seek to expand , and unfortunately their bid be reject in the last round . I be passionate and hopeful that this school might be able to benefit from the £ 370 million of additional funding , not least because one in three child attend Swallow Dell be eligible for free school meal . my right hon . friend know my constituency well , and she be welcome to visit . I hope that she will agree to a meeting to talk about Swallow Dell ' s bid for future funding . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the workforce at Swallow Dell for everything they be do to make sure our child get a brilliant start in life . I be sorry that they be not successful in the first phase . there be lot of demand , and that be why I be delighted that the spending review give £ 370 million to ensure that we can make further progress towards our manifesto commitment . I would be delighted to discuss it far with he . the Conservatives let down work parent by not have a plan for their pledge . I be proud of how this Labour Government have deliver to provide work family with 15 hour of government - fund childcare and funding for new school - base nursery , include at Keresley Newland primary academy in Bedworth , which I look forward to visit in the autumn . I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to join I . can she outline the role that school - base nursery will play in ramp up to the 30 hour of government - fund childcare this September , put £ 7 , 500 back in the pocket of hard - work family across my constituency of North Warwickshire and Bedworth ? I will certainly do my good to visit Keresley Newland , and I be delighted that it be take part in our school - base nursery programme . we be determined to make sure that every child get the good start in life . we know that the early year be crucial , and that be why we have set an ambitious target of make sure that a record number of child at the end of the early year foundation stage be ready for the next step on their journey through the school system . the last Government make all kind of promise to parent , but they do not fund they . in fact , they leave behind a huge black hole in the public finance . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) should know that well than most , because she be in the Treasury . I recently visit the excellent Matchborough first school in my Redditch constituency to meet headteacher Lynn Briers . it be select as one of the first school in the country to receive substantial funding to transform unused classroom into much - need nursery space . I see at first hand the difference that that funding will make . can I therefore cheekily ask the Secretary of State to confirm when the next round of funding will be available , so that we can deliver even more of these excellent project to support school and family in Redditch ? it be because we know the benefit that primary - base nursery can bring , often work with the private , voluntary and independent sector , that we be determined to move as fast as we can to deliver the next phase . I look forward to discuss that far with my hon . friend . I be delighted that family in Redditch and right across the country will benefit from the expansion of free school meal eligibility to all family in receipt of universal credit , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty and put money back in the pocket of parent . do the Secretary of State monitor the number of private nursery closure ? if so , can she tell we how many have close since the Budget ? yes , we continue to keep that under review , especially ahead of the further expansion of childcare in September . the figure will be publish in the usual way , and we will make sure that we have the workforce there to deliver on the commitment that have be make . I say to the hon . Lady that in addition to almost double the early year pupil premium , we put in place a £ 75 million expansion grant to make sure that ahead of the further roll - out in September , all our early year setting can deliver the place that be need . in my constituency there be more than 130 active case involve child with special educational need , many of which involve education , health and care plan that be either deny or issue in such a poor state that they contain the wrong name and describe the wrong condition , and therefore offer completely inappropriate package of support . give that Surrey county council have the high number of tribunal case against it every year — most of which be lose — may I ask whether the Secretary of State intend to reduce the right associate with ehcp , and whether she will do what so many parent ask I about and launch an immediate investigation into the council and its compliance with its legal obligation ? the hon . Gentleman have raise a number of important question . I will certainly look into the issue relate to Surrey that we have discuss previously , and will then come back to he . as for support for child with special educational need and disability , he have make the case for reform very precisely . the current system be simply not work , and the Government be determined to ensure that child get more timely early support and that we have a system that be base much more on need . as part of the process lead to the school White Paper that will come later in the year , I be engage with parent , campaigner and other , and I would be more than happy to discuss the matter far with Liberal Democrat colleague in order to understand their concern . this morning , in my constituency , I meet the chief executive of the Early Years Alliance . its Laindon nursery be face closure , not because of fall demand but because it be be hammer by the national insurance tax rise . how can the Secretary of State talk about expand provision when nursery after nursery , in my constituency and across the country , be be push over a cliff edge by this Labour Government ? I too recently meet the chief executive of the Early Years Alliance , and I will always be open to discuss the challenge face by the sector ; but let I convey to the right hon . Gentleman the point that I make to the chief executive . we be invest £ 8 billion in early year education , as well as almost double the early year pupil premium and provide a £ 75 million expansion grant to support setting ahead of a further roll - out in September . the right hon . Gentleman and the conservative party make a load of promise to parent at the time of the last general election , but they do not fund they , they do not ensure that the workforce would be there , and they leave we with the black hole in the public finance that this government be turn around . in the last couple of month , I have be speak to lot of nursery provider across my constituency about these issue , and the thing that come up again and again be small business rate relief . the Secretary of State ' s Department have already reply say that nursery can claim the relief , but a nursery have to have few than 18 child to qualify , and the average number in my constituency be 75 . those nursery be not eligible , and the national insurance and consumable change be cripple they , so they be now consider not take on government - fund child . what should they do ? I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , have be in touch with the hon . Lady recently to discuss this matter far , and I personally will happily look far into the case that she have raise . we be invest record sum in early year education and work with the sector to deliver the place that be need . that be a big challenge , because the last Tory Government do not leave behind a plan to deliver those place . SEND support : child without an EHCP what step she be take to support child with special educational need and disability who do not have an education , health and care plan . parent right across the country know that the Tories leave behind a SEND system that be , in the word of the last Tory Education Secretary , " lose , lose , lose " . labour will restore parent ' confidence with a support - first approach , prioritise early intervention and inclusive support in mainstream school to address need before they escalate . we will not be remove effective support , but we will also expand school ' capacity to deliver consistent , high - quality provision to help child thrive , with timely and effective support . in the last 11 month I have visit nearly all the school in my constituency , and wherever I have go I have ask whether people understand why the number of child with special educational need have be go through the roof . I have receive various explanation , such as lockdown , diet , social medium , drug in pregnancy , parenting , increase awareness and over - medicalisation . be the Department do any research on what be cause this phenomenon , so that we can treat the cause and not just the symptom ? my Department , and the Department of Health and Social Care , be keen to understand some of the driver identify by the hon . Gentleman . I know that he come to this discussion in good faith , but some people , include Reform Members of Parliament , sometimes do not approach it in a responsible way . I think we need to tread with a great deal of care when we approach and discuss this subject , not least because it be a welcome change in our society that we now well understand where child have additional need . the challenge , of course , be that the hon . Gentleman ' s party do not put in place the support that be require both to identify and to support child with special educational need and disability . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . one of the big challenge affect the delivery of support for child with special educational need and disability be the extent of local authority fund deficit . they be currently deal with through the statutory override , which allow local authority to set a balanced budget without account for their SEND deficit . give that the statutory override expire in March 2026 , do the Secretary of State agree that a White Paper in autumn 2025 provide far too little time for the Government to implement meaningful change without extend the override far , and when do she expect local authority to be able to have the certainty that they need to plan for the come financial year ? I agree that in addition to long - term reform , which the White Paper will deliver , it be imperative that we take action now in order to make sure that the school system well cater for child with a wide range of need . that be why we have invest £ 740 million to support council to create more specialist provision in mainstream school . I have see some fantastic example right across the country , and we need to see more . on the precise question about the statutory override , we want to make sure that council be well support through the process , and we will set out our position very soon . one of the good way to support autistic child in school be for teacher to go through mandatory training and to understand well the challenge that face by neurodiverse people . how be the neurodivergent taskforce progressing , and will the Government bring in mandatory training for new teacher ? we be introduce more training on SEND for new entrant to the profession . that will take effect from September , but there be more that we need to do , include support teacher and staff already work in our school . that be part of the work that the group have under way , and we will set out more through the White Paper . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s interest in the issue ; I know he care very much about make sure that all child , include those who be neurodivergent , have the support that they need to thrive , which be what this Government be determined to deliver . I thank the Secretary of State for her comment about the need to address the topic of SEND with great sensitivity , as we risk stigmatise entire family and generation who be affect so adversely by this issue . in rural constituency like Suffolk Coastal , the SEND crisis be incredibly severe and acute for many reason . be the Secretary of State look at the decline in population that we face in many of our rural primary school , and at how that extra capacity could be a huge resource and opportunity in tackle the SEND crisis ? I agree that in area where we be see space opening up in the school estate , it be allow we to do thing like open more school - base nursery . it also provide we with the opportunity to deliver more specialist provision in mainstream school . I have see some brilliant example , right across the country , of where that can be deliver . I have also see brilliant example that involve the mainstream sector work together with the specialist sector to improve training for staff in order to improve provision overall . this be a big challenge — one that many member from across the House want to see put in a much well place . we will all have hear anguished tale from parent who have have to fight incredibly hard for the support that their child need . alongside that , we will all have hear that many staff in our school feel that they currently lack the training and support they need to ensure that all child be able to thrive , and this Government be determined to change that . I call the shadow Minister . ask whether the Government be plan to restrict ehcp so that they apply only to child in special school , the Government ' s strategic adviser on SEND , Christine Lenehan , recently say : " I think , to be honest , that ' s the conversation we ' re in the middle of . " be she correct to say that Ministers be consider that , or not ? we do need to think differently about the system that we have inherit from the conservative party — one that member from across the House recognise just be not work . this be not about take away support for family or child ; it be about make sure that there be much early identification of need and that support be put in place much more rapidly , include ahead of any formal diagnosis . I urge the shadow Minister to reflect and to show a bit more humility about the terrible state of what he and his party have leave behind : a system that be adversarial and fail child , and in which child with special educational need and disability do not get the excellent educational outcome that should be the right of every child in this country . he should reflect on his total failure . level 7 apprenticeship : fund what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of change to funding for level 7 apprenticeship on people age 22 and over . apprenticeship start by young people collapse under the Conservatives . labour be rebalance the system towards young people to help they get on in life by back they and give they the skill they need to get job and grow our economy . over 95 , 000 apprenticeship be be undertake in the health , public service and care sector , and NHS Employers and many other have raise concern about the impact of the Government policy to cease funding for level 7 apprenticeship for those over the age of 22 . can the Minister tell we what plan be in place to ensure that the people support all of we and all our constituent be give essential training and support ? more particularly , what discussion have she have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care about the impact of this decision on our NHS ? we be encourage more employer , include the NHS , to invest in upskille their staff who be over 22 year old and to deliver level 7 apprenticeship where they benefit those business and individual . it will be for employer to determine the most appropriate training , and there be other training opportunity available at level 7 , include non - apprenticeship route . our reform will support 120 , 000 new training opportunity and up to 13 , 000 foundation apprenticeship start . apprenticeship start , participation and achievement be all up under Labour , and we be continue to go much far . I welcome the Government ' s plan to create those 120 , 000 training opportunity for young people , include these high - level apprenticeship . however , we know that there be significant shortage of those able to provide training and mentorship . with only 65 % of 55 to 64 - year - old employ , do the Minister agree that there be an opportunity to retrain old worker so they can pass on their experience to the next generation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we continue to support and train adult , and many adult with seniority in their profession will continue to offer excellent support , mentoring , internship and guidance to young apprentice . the change we have put in place will enable apprenticeship opportunity to be rebalance towards young people and will create more opportunity for those enter the labour market . I call the shadow Minister . Ministers recently announce that they be axe level 7 apprenticeship . strangely , they make the announcement during recess ; and also strangely , it be only the day after the announcement that they finally answer my parliamentary question from April , reveal that they be make a 90 % cut in those apprenticeship . this be blow a huge hole in the NHS workforce plan , lead to a shortfall of 11 , 000 nurse . if Ministers will not listen to the many employer say that this will make it much more difficult for people who be not so well - off to get into the profession , will they at least rule out cut level 6 apprenticeship next ? I can reassure the shadow Minister that level 6 apprenticeship be a core part of our offer , and we will continue to fund they . I also say politely to he that we will take no lesson from Liz Truss ' s previous Health Minister ; that Government leave our NHS on its knee , and we be have to rebuild it from its foundation again . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the number of health visitor in England have reach an all - time low , with just 7 , 000 remain , and there be a forecast shortfall of 37 , 000 community nurse by 2036 . the Department ' s own Skills England sectoral report show that the health and social care sector face the high vacancy rate , at 41 % . have there be any specific assessment of how remove level 7 apprenticeship funding for those over 21 will impact the pipeline of specialist community public health nurse into critical shortage role , and be Skills England work with the Department of Health on NHS workforce planning ? Skills England be take a pivotal and active role . also , of the 2 . 5 million worker in critical demand occupation , which include the NHS , the majority require a qualification low than degree level . we be rebalancing opportunity towards young people , whose rate of apprenticeship start have fall more dramatically than the overall decline over the last decade . to create more opportunity for young people , we will need to prioritise public funding towards those at the start of their work career and at the low apprenticeship level , rather than those who be already in work with high level of prior learning or qualification . Outdoor Education : National Curriculum what recent assessment her Department have make of the adequacy of outdoor education provision in the national curriculum . it be important for young people to enjoy the benefit of spend time in nature , as part of a balanced curriculum . beyond the curriculum , the Department be also work on an enrichment framework to support school in develop their offer , which include a variety of outdoor education opportunity . our National Education Nature Park initiative also aim to support young people ' s wellbee and develop skill for the future . learn in the outdoors allow child and young people to build their confidence and push their boundary in a safe but challenging environment , yet all too often young people from more deprived community , include in my constituency , do not have access to opportunity such as the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award . will the Minister meet I to discuss what more can be do to support school in roll out the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award across Bolton , Blackrod , Horwich and Westhoughton ? I join my hon . friend in recognise the value of outdoor pursuit and the value of the Duke of Edinburgh ' s award , which I benefit from take part in myself when I be at school . the Department have fund 300 school in area of high deprivation to start offer the award , and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be provide funding of a furth £ 1 . 5 million this financial year to extend the scheme . my hon . friend be of course keen to ensure that his constituent benefit and I would be delighted to meet he to discuss that far . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . worryingly , obesity level be predict to rise between 20 % and 30 % in the next five to 10 year . to combat that , physical education be important , as be the Government look at child ' s diet at school . those two thing can address obesity , so I be keen to hear the Minister ' s thought on they . I agree with the hon . Gentleman . we want all school to offer a broad and balanced curriculum , include outdoor activity , sport , PE and physical activity , and to ensure that every child can benefit . that be why we be legislate to ensure that the national curriculum apply to all school , through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . SEND Strategy what step she be take to develop a SEND strategy . colleague across the House have already hear today about the " lose , lose , lose " system that we inherit from the Conservatives . improve the special educational need and disability system be a priority . we be work to improve outcome for all child . parent should not have to fight for support for their child . we will be set out further detail in our school White Paper in the autumn . give the sharp rise in diagnosis in York of child with SEND , we have establish a SEND - focus family hub . we be also review other service . I be particularly concerned about the culture within school . we need nurture and inclusive education , so that we have a therapeutic learning environment . will the Minister say what she be do to ensure that school , local authority and other can feed into the White Paper to share good practice and raise concern ? I know that my hon . friend care very deeply about this issue . I can reassure she that we be actively collaborate with sector parent and expert on how we drive forward our SEND reform . that include work closely with Dame Christine Lenehan , our strategic adviser on SEND , and Tom Rees , who lead the expert advisory group on inclusion . change we make will focus on improve support for child and parent , end that fight for support , and protect exist provision . we be listen very closely as we develop the plan . it be rare but very encouraging when a constituent come into a surgery with some solution . a couple of month ago , Elizabeth Cordle come into my surgery to talk about Corefulness , which be a series of short , simple , evidence - base exercise programme to mature essential movement skill and help improve a child ' s readiness to learn and break down barrier to learn . she be uncertain on how exactly it could be apply to assist with SEND , but she be absolutely clear that , through the national roll - out that she be lead , it have enormous potential . will the Minister to engage with I and Elizabeth , so that as the strategy be be develop , we can examine whether that programme have a wide application ? I agree that we need to take a constructive and collaborative approach in how we improve outcome for all child , and intervene in child ' s live to ensure their need be meet at the early stage possible . we will support school to do that in any way we can . I would be more than happy to engage with the right hon . gentleman on his constructive suggestion . adoption : child in Foster Care what step she be take to reduce the time take for the adoption of child in foster care . where adoption be the right option for child , it need to happen without delay , and early permanence placement be a crucial way to offer child stability . Labour believe that child grow up in our country deserve the good start in life , which be why we have provide £ 250 , 000 in funding for Adoption England to promote the practice . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill represent the big overhaul of child ' s social care in a generation , and it be a shame that Opposition Members oppose it . I thank the Minister for that response . as an adoptive parent and a foster carer , I know the transformative effect that early permanence can have on the life of child in care . it be not right for every child or for every parent , but adoption agency could make much wide use of it . would the Minister be willing to meet I and adoption charity to discuss how we can maximise the benefit of early permanence ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important topic ; he be a champion for child in Cannock Chase . I agree that we should continue to promote early permanence . Adoption England have publish national standard to promote and shape early permanence practice across the country . I regularly meet the organisation my hon . friend have mention , but I be more than happy to meet he , too . adoptive parent right across my constituency be rightly concerned about the impact of Labour ' s recent cut to the adoption and special guardianship support fund . follow last week ' s spending review , what hope can be offer to family in my constituency and up and down the country who need the additional support that have be take away under those cut ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for the concern she have express . the adoption and special guardianship support fund have not be cut . demand be ever increase , and we have choose an approach to manage tight resource in the face of increase demand for support . the adoption and special guardianship support fund still enable those eligible to access a significant package of therapeutic support tailor to meet their individual need . Mental Health support : school what step she be take to improve mental health support in school . what step she be take to improve mental health support in school . this Government be commit to break down the barrier to opportunity , which be why we be provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school and expand mental health support team so that every child can access early support before problem escalate . in the Stroud area , six school be now teach mental health first aid to 16 - year - old . many student have receive a form of qualification , which they can use for application to job and university . at Rednock school , these student be wear coloured lanyard so that other student can recognise they and ask they for help with their mental health . would the Minister support and extend this innovative scheme ? I be happy to hear about the successful project in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I be interested to learn more as we share further detail . separately , to support education staff , the Department provide a range of guidance and practical resource on promote and support pupil ' mental health and wellbeing . the brilliant school in my constituency know that good mental health be the foundation for pupil enjoy school , fulfil their potential and get ready for life . in addition to roll out mental health support for nearly a million more young people this year , will the Minister confirm that this Government will ensure that every child who need mental health support will get it by the end of this Parliament ? I agree with my hon . friend , but would add that it be not just see through the expansion of mental health support team . with an extra £ 680 million in Government funding this year , the Government be transform mental health service for child in Reading West and Mid Berkshire and across the country , hire more staff , deliver more talk therapy and get waiting list down through our plan for change so that child can have the good possible start in life . what be the principal difference between this Government ' s groundbreake plan to introduce mental health support team to school and the previous Government ' s already in - progress programme to deliver mental health support team to school ? as I like this Minister , Mr Speaker , let I give he a hint : this have be a rhetorical question . the difference be that we be deliver it to every school in our country to make sure that every child can succeed and thrive . my constituent John Clifton chair the West Sussex Parent Carer Forum . last week John write to I and all West Sussex mps outline a number of the forum ' s concern , include the provision of mental health support for child who have special educational need and be neurodiverse . how will the Minister ensure that the support that will be provide be inclusive for all child , regardless of their need ? the Secretary of State have recently meet the parent carer forum to discuss these issue and will continue to do so . we be committed to introduce more mental health support worker across the NHS and create youth mental health hub in all community . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week ' s spending review be about invest in Britain ' s renewal and invest in excellence for every child , so that background will not determine what they can go on to achieve . through our settlement , we will continue to make high - quality early year education more accessible and affordable . we will rebuild our crumble school estate , and we will improve outcome for child with special educational need and disability with our support - first approach . we will also continue our overhaul of child ' s social care , open up training opportunity for young people to get great job in grow industry . crucially , we will lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty through an historic expansion of free school meal to cover all family in receipt of universal credit . it will save parent nearly £ 500 per child per year . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . I recently meet young people from the West Yorkshire Youth Collective . they tell I that funding for work experience opportunity for those age between 16 and 19 have reduce in recent year , particularly in science , technology , engineering and mathematic and the art . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that young people , particularly those from low - income background , can access the opportunity that they need to succeed ? my hon . friend be right to highlight this important area . as she will know , our manifesto commit we to expand work experience and career guidance so that we can support young people into fulfil job , create opportunity and drive growth . our wide skill reform will also create 120 , 000 training opportunity over the course of this Parliament . if my hon . friend would like to share more detail of the discussion she mention , I would look carefully at they . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be a pleasure to welcome my old primary school teacher Mrs Case to the Chamber today — I hope we all remain on our good behaviour . my question be very simple : do the Education Secretary believe that primary school teacher be indeed teacher ? I join the right hon . Lady in pay tribute to her teacher who join we today . we all know that a brilliant teacher and the contribution that they make can always stay with we . I be slightly perplex by the right hon . Lady ' s question . she be obviously right , but after 14 year of Tory failure many of our teacher be sadly have to pick up the piece of wide societal challenge — whether that be too many family be in temporary accommodation or the grow number of child in poverty . we be determine as a Government to turn that around . I be grateful for the confirmation that the Education Secretary do accept that primary school teacher be indeed teacher , but why be she then say that they no long count towards her manifesto pledge to recruit 6 , 500 more teacher ? be it because , contrary to the Department ' s social medium post , teacher number be in fact go down , not up ? I do not know where the right hon . Lady have be , but she certainly have not be pay attention . we have be clear that we will make sure that we have 6 , 500 more teacher in secondary and specialist education and in further education college . this year alone we have 60 , 000 few child in primary school , and that be why we be focus our recruitment effort in area where we be see growth . it be common sense . it be this Labour Government who have deliver two pay rise for teacher , because we , the Labour party , value our brilliant teacher . the work of Fife college be essential in equip thousand of my constituent with skill for success . do the Minister share my deep concern at the real - term cut that the SNP Scottish Government be inflict on the college as they deprioritise Fife in favour of Glasgow , Edinburgh and Aberdeen ? will she join I in urge they to think again ? I agree with my hon . friend that it be time for a new direction for Scotland with Scottish Labour . in England , we be make over £ 1 billion of additional investment per year in skill by 2028 - 29 to support young people into the industry of the future . that be because we be unlock opportunity and drive growth through our plan for change . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Philip Augar , the chair of the previous review into post - 18 education funding , state recently in the Financial Times that " a handful " of university be receive " secret bailout " . will the Secretary of State confirm what emergency financial support the Government have already provide to struggle institution and commit to inform Parliament of any future emergency financial support for individual institution ? it be this Labour Government ' s priority to ensure that our world - lead university be put on a much more sustainable footing . that be why we take the difficult but necessary decision to increase student fee , and it be why we be reform the Office for student to have a much sharp focus on financial regulation and sustainability . we , together with the Office for Students , continue to keep under review any institution that may face difficulty , but the hon . member will appreciate that these sensitive issue be well deal with properly and seriously through the Office for Students . in Rossendale and Darwen , the Valley leadership academy be a vital school serve some of our most disadvantaged community , yet it be recently identify as a stuck school follow successive " require improvement " ofsted assessment . the staff and leadership at the school be work incredibly hard to drive improvement , and we be start to see positive sign . will the Minister therefore please update I on what Labour be do to support they ? Labour be deliver a new era of high and rise school standard , because we know that when standard slip it be disadvantaged child who suffer , and we will not let that happen . that be why Labour ' s regional improvement for standard and excellence team be spearhead a strong , fast system , prioritise stuck school , send in adviser with a prove track record of turn school around , and back that up with up to £ 20 million — order . may I invite the Secretary of State to come and visit the outstanding Market Field special school in my constituency , which be rebuild and dramatically expand under the Conservatives ? I have be listen to what she have be say about expand special need provision . will she give an assurance that the number and capacity of special school will continue to be expand and that we will not return to the fail policy of the previous Labour Government ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that we will ensure that we have the right number of specialist placement in the part of the country where they be need . our capital budget in the spending review will allow we to do that . but alongside that , we need to ensure that we have more specialist provision in mainstream , include partnership with the specialist sector , to train and support the workforce to make that a reality . do the Minister agree that plan to make all child in household in receipt of universal credit eligible for free school meal will build on the Government ' s brilliant work to tackle pupil absence ? the incredible number I have hear mention about this academic year be 140 , 000 few child persistently absent and 3 million extra day in school . I completely agree with my hon . friend . provide over half a million child from the most disadvantaged background with a free , nutritious lunch every school day will lead to high attainment , improve behaviour and well outcome , include on attendance , mean that child can get the good possible education and a chance to succeed in life . although the Department be provide some extra fund to meet the additional cost of nic in school , those with a high number of SEND pupil such as all Saints ' primary in Maldon will still receive less than 50 % of the increase . will the Secretary of State look again at that aspect , which be another disincentive for mainstream school take SEND pupil ? in wide reform later this year through the school White Paper — include to the SEND system — we will look at every way in which we can improve outcome for child , include those with SEND . that will include look at the funding mechanism we inherit from the conservative party . I set up the Corby and east Northants SEND roundtable to help seek solution to fix the broken system . one of the outcome of the discussion be the need to improve SEND provision in our mainstream school . what be the Minister do to engage with teacher to make school more inclusive and maximise the potential of every child ? we be invest significantly to make mainstream school more inclusive for SEND student . by strengthen our evidence of effective inclusive practice , we be equip teacher with prove tool and strategy to deliver excellent inclusive education support by expert teaching and a world - class curriculum . we will set out more detail in our White Paper in the autumn . scottish education be once the envy of the world , but under the SNP it be be destroy . datum show that a quarter of 11 - year - old in Scotland be not achieve expect literacy level . do the Minister agree that the SNP need to drop its weird obsession and get back to the basic of sort out Scotland ' s education ? it be only through deliver a Labour Government in Scotland next year that we will get the change that the hon . Gentleman be seek . I agree that scottish education use to be the envy of the world — I spend many a long day speak to my grandfather about his experience of the scottish system — but it be only with a Labour Government in Scotland that we will once again see the focus on standard that our disadvantaged young people badly need . early this month , I open the Launch Pad , a new SEND provision at Sandhurst school , and I be show around by Ben , who tell I how the Launch Pad have help he to access education . as the Government work at pace to fix the broken SEND system , what be the Minister ' s message for young people like Ben ? we know that there be lot of great example of mainstream school deliver specialist provision , such as the one my hon . Friend recently open , enable child to achieve and thrive in mainstream school and provide excellent support to child with speech and language need . we have allocate £ 740 million to support mainstream school to increase their SEND provision , and we want to reassure his constituent that we will continue to prioritise that in our work . another private school , Queen Margaret ' s school for girl in York , have announce its closure , month after the Carrdus school in my constituency announce its closure . over 11 , 000 child have leave the private sector in this first year , which be more than three time what the Government expect . do the Minister believe that the impact assessment of the introduction of vat on private school be correct ? will she look again at the flawed case for it ? around 50 mainstream private school close each year . the level of fee charge by private school be not a matter for the Department ; it be a contractual matter between private school and parent . just two in five young people recall receive any financial education at school , and those who do so often receive less than an hour per month . while I welcome the Government ' s Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will require all school to teach financial literacy , do the Minister agree that the curriculum and assessment review give we an opportunity to go even far ? will she meet I to discuss how Government , industry and civil society can ensure that child in my constituency get this vital life skill ? I absolutely agree with the importance of financial education . we be look at the curriculum and assessment system and make sure that we take the advice of the independent review on these matter . I would be more than happy , give my hon . friend ' s enthusiasm — and parent ' enthusiasm — for this subject , to discuss it far with he . last week the Chancellor commit £ 9 . 6 billion over the next four year to the school rebuilding programme . hornsea school and language college in my constituency be in dire need of a full rebuild , so can the Secretary of State commit today to include it in the next tranche of rebuild ? if she need any persuading , I would be delighted to invite she to make a short detour on her way back to Sunderland and to come and have a look for herself . we have significantly increase investment to improve the condition of school or rebuild they ; ensure that school have the resource and building that they need be key to our plan for change . if the hon . member would like to write to I about that school , I would be happy to update he on this matter . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on British Sign Language , I know that the thousand of BSL first - language speaker in this country be very supportive of the introduction of a new BSL GCSE . however , I understand that progress on that have slightly stall , so I would be grateful if the Minister could provide an update on the roll - out . the british Sign Language GCSE be a key feature of our commitment to enhance the status of British Sign Language , both in education and in society . Ofqual be currently run a public consultation on its propose assessment arrangement and expect to confirm its decision on the qualification rule in autumn 2025 . in April , I write to the Minister for School Standards about the Angel Hill free school , which will provide 96 desperately need place for child with SEND in my constituency . I thank she for her response in which she say that we would get an update shortly . I ask again : when do she expect construction of the Angel Hill free school in Rosehill to begin ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important project . I can confirm that work at Angel Hill free school be expect to commence in September 2025 subject to the contract be award in August . child Sexual Exploitation : Casey Report with permission , I will update the House on the audit the Government commission from Baroness Casey on child sexual exploitation and grooming gang , and on the action we be take to tackle this vile crime — to put perpetrator behind bar and to provide the innocent victim of those crime with support and justice . the House will be aware that on Friday seven man be find guilty of commit the most horrendous crime in Rochdale between 2000 and 2006 . they be convict of treat teenage girl as sex slave , repeatedly rape they in filthy flat , alleyways and warehouse . the perpetrator include taxi driver and market trader of pakistani heritage , and it have take 20 year to bring they to justice . I pay tribute to the incredible bravery of the woman who tell their story and fight for justice for all those year . they should never have be let down for so long . the sexual exploitation of child by groom gang be one of the most horrific crime . child as young as 10 , ply with drug and alcohol , be brutally rape by gang of man and disgracefully let down again and again by the authority that be mean to protect they and keep they safe . these despicable crime have cause the most unimaginable harm to victim and survivor throughout their life and be a stain on our society . five month ago , I tell the House that our most important task be to stop perpetrator and put they behind bar . I can report that that work be accelerate — arrest and investigation be increase . I ask police force in January to identify case involve grooming and child sexual exploitation allegation that have be close with no further action . More than 800 case have now be identify for formal review , and I expect that figure to rise above 1 , 000 in the come week . let I be clear : perpetrator of these vile crime should be off our street , behind bar , pay the price for what they have do . far rapid action be also under way to implement recommendation of past inquiry and review , include the seven - year independent inquiry into child abuse — recommendation that have sit on the shelf for too long . in the Crime and Policing Bill , we be introduce the long - overdue mandatory reporting duty , which I call for more than 10 year ago , as well as aggravate offence for groom offender so that their sentence match the severity of their crime . early this year , I also commission Baroness Louise Casey to undertake a rapid national audit of the nature , scale and characteristic of gang - base exploitation . I specifically ask she to look at the issue of ethnicity and the cultural and social driver of this type of offend — analysis that previously have never be do despite year of concern be raise . I ask she to advise we on what further review , investigation and action would be need to address the current and historical failure that she find . I tell Parliament in January that I expect Baroness Casey to deliver the same kind of impactful and no - holds - bar report that she produce on Rotherham in 2015 , so that we never shy away from the reality of these terrible crime . I be grateful that Louise and her team have do exactly that , conduct a hugely wide - range assessment in just four month . the finding of her audit be damn . at its heart , she identify a deep - root failure to treat child as child , and a continue failure to protect child and teenage girl from rape , exploitation and serious violence and from the scar that last a lifetime . she find too much fragmentation in the authority ’ response , too little sharing of information , too much reliance on flawed datum , too much denial , too little justice , too many criminal get off and too many victim be let down . the audit describe victim as young as 10 — often those in care or child with learning or physical disability — be single out for groom precisely because of their vulnerability ; perpetrator still walk free because no one join the dot or because the law end up protect they instead of the victim they have exploit ; and deep - root institutional failure , stretch back decade , where organisation that should have protect child and punish offender look the other way . Baroness Casey find that " blindness , ignorance , prejudice , defensiveness and even good but misdirect intention " all play a part in that collective failure . on the key issue of ethnicity that I ask Baroness Casey to examine , she have find continue failure to gather proper robust national datum , despite concern be raise go back many year . in the local datum examine from three police force , the audit identify clear evidence of over - representation among suspect of asian and Pakistani - heritage man . Baroness Casey refer to " example of organisation avoid the topic altogether for fear of appear racist or raise community tension " . these finding be deeply disturbing , but most disturbing of all , as Baroness Casey make clear , be the fact that too many of they be not new . as her audit set out , there have be 15 year of report , review , inquiry and investigation into the appalling rape , exploitation and violent crime against child — detail over 17 page of her report — but too little have change . we have lose more than a decade . that must end now . Baroness Casey set out 12 recommendation for change , and we will take action on all of they immediately , because we can not afford more waste year . we will introduce new law to protect child and support victim so that they stop be blame for the appalling crime commit against they ; new major police operation to pursue perpetrator and put they behind bar ; a new national inquiry to direct local investigation and hold institution to account for past failure ; new ethnicity datum and research , so that we face up to the fact on exploitation and abuse ; new action across child ' s social service and other agency to identify child at risk ; and further action to support child victim and tackle new form of exploitation and abuse online . take together , this will mark the big programme of work ever pursue to root out the scourge of grooming gang and child sexual exploitation . those vile perpetrator who have grow use to the authority look the other way must have no place to hide , so let I spell out the next step that we be announce today . Baroness Casey ' s first recommendation be that we must see child as child . she conclude that too many grooming case have be drop or downgrade from rape to less charge because a 13 to 15 - year - old be perceive to have be in love with or consent to sex with the perpetrator , so we will change the law to ensure that adult who engage in penetrative sex with a child under 16 face the most serious charge of rape , and we will work closely with the Crown Prosecution Service and the police to ensure that there be safeguard for consensual teenage relationship . we will change the law so that those convict for child prostitution offence while their rapist get off scot - free will have their conviction disregard and their criminal record expunge . Baroness Casey ' s next recommendation be a national criminal investigation . as I have set out , arrest and investigation be rise , but the audit recommend that we go far , so I can announce that the police will launch a new national criminal operation into groom gang , oversee by the National Crime Agency . it will bring together for the first time all arm of the police response and develop a rigorous new national operating model that all force across the country will be able to adopt , ensure that groom gang be always treat as serious and organised crime , and so that rapist who groom child — whether their crime be commit decade ago or be still be commit today — can end up behind bar . alongside justice , there must also be accountability and action . we have begin implement the recommendation from past inquiry , include Professor Jay ' s independent inquiry , and we have say that further inquiry be need to get accountability in local area . I tell the House in January that I would undertake further work on how to ensure that those inquiry could get the evidence that they need to properly hold institution to account . we have seek response from local council , too . we ask Baroness Casey to review those response , as well as the arrangement and power use in past investigation and inquiry , and to consider the good mean of get to the truth . her report conclude that further local investigation be need , but they should be direct and oversee by a national commission with statutory inquiry power . we agree , and we will set up a national inquiry to that effect . Baroness Casey be not recommend another overarch inquiry of the kind conduct by Professor Alexis Jay . she recommend that the inquiry be time - limited , and its purpose must be to challenge what the audit describe as continue denial , resistance and legal wrangling among local agency . we will set out further detail on the national inquiry in due course . I warn in January that the data collection we inherit from the previous Government on ethnicity be completely inadequate ; the datum be collect on only 37 % of suspect . Baroness Casey ' s audit confirm that ethnicity datum be not record for two third of groom gang perpetrator , and that the data be " not good enough to support any statement about the ethnicity of group - base child sexual exploitation offender at the national level . " I agree with that conclusion . frankly , it be ridiculous and help no one that this basic information be not collect , especially as there have be warning and recommendation stretch back 13 year about the woefully inadequate datum on perpetrator , which prevent pattern of crime from be understand and tackle . the immediate change to police recording practice that I announce in January be start to improve the datum , but we need to go much far . Baroness Casey ' s audit examine local datum in three police force area — Greater Manchester , West Yorkshire and South Yorkshire — where high - profile case involve pakistani - heritage man have long be investigate and report . she find there that the suspect of group - base child sexual offence be disproportionately likely to be asian man . she also find indication of disproportionality in serious case review . although much more robust national datum be need , we can not and must not shy away from those finding . as Baroness Casey say , " ignore the issue , not examine and expose they to the light , allow the criminality and depravity of a minority of man to be use to marginalise whole community " . the vast majority of people in our british asian and Pakistani - heritage community continue to be appal by these terrible crime , and agree that the criminal minority of sick predator and perpetrator in every community must be deal with robustly by criminal law . Baroness Casey ' s review also identify prosecution and investigation into perpetrator who be white british , european , african or middle eastern , just as Alexis Jay ' s inquiry conclude that all ethnicity and community be involve in appal child abuse crime . so that there be accurate information to help tackle serious crime , we will , for the first time , make it a formal requirement to collect ethnicity and nationality datum in all case of child sexual abuse and exploitation . we will also commission new research on the cultural and social driver of child sexual exploitation , misogyny and violence against woman and girl , as Baroness Casey have recommend . the audit ' s final group of recommendation be about the continue failure of agency that should be keep child safe to share vital information or act on clear sign of risk . worryingly , the audit find that although the number of report to the police of child sexual abuse and exploitation have go up , the number of child sexual abuse case identify for protection plan by local child ' s service have fall to its low ever , but no one have be curious about why that be . the audit also detail an abysmal failure to respond to 15 year of recommendation and warning about the failing of inter - agency co - operation . we will act at pace to deliver Baroness Casey ' s recommendation for mandatory information - sharing between agency , and for unique reference number for child , build on work already be take forward by my right hon . friend the Education Secretary . my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary will also work at pace to close loophole in taxi licensing law . I want to respond to three other important issue identify by Baroness Casey in her report , but on which she have not make specific recommendation . on support for victim , my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will fund additional training for mental health staff in school on identify and support child and young people who have experience trauma , exploitation and abuse . Baroness Casey report that she come across case involve suspect who be asylum seeker . we have ask her team to provide all the evidence they find to the Home Office , so that immigration enforcement can immediately pursue individual case with the police . let I make it clear that those who groom child or commit sexual offence will not be grant asylum in the UK , and we will do everything in our power to remove they . I do not believe that the law we have inherit be strong enough , so we be bring forward a change to the law , so that anyone convict of sexual offence be exclude from the asylum system and deny refugee status . we have already increase the removal of foreign national offender by 14 % since the election , and we be draw up new arrangement to identify and remove those who have commit a much wide range of offence . finally , Baroness Casey describe way in which pattern of groom gang child sexual exploitation be change , and evidence that rape and sexual exploitation be take place in street gang and drug gang who combine criminal and sexual exploitation . I do not believe that this kind of exploitation have be investigate sufficiently . the report also describe sexual exploitation in modern slavery and trafficking case . most significantly of all , it describe the huge increase in online grooming , and horrendous online sexual exploitation and abuse , include through the use of social medium app to build up relationship and lure child into physical abuse . the audit quote a police expert , who say : " if Rotherham be to happen again today it would start online . " we be pass world - lead law to target those who groom and exploit child online , and invest in cut - edge technology to target the high - harm offender , but we need to do much more , or the new scandal and shameful crime of the future will be miss . when the final report of Alexis Jay ' s seven - year national inquiry be publish in October 2022 , the then Home Secretary , Grant Shapps , issue a profound and formal public apology to the victim of child sexual abuse who be so badly let down over decade by different level of the state . as shadow Home Secretary at the time , I join he in that apology on behalf of the Opposition , and extend it to victim of child sexual exploitation , too . to the victim and survivor of sexual exploitation and grooming gang , on behalf of this and past government , and the many public authority that let you down , I want to reiterate an unequivocal apology for the unimaginable pain and suffering that you have suffer , and for the failure of our country ' s institution , over decade , to prevent that harm and keep you safe . but word be not enough ; victim and survivor need action . the reform that I have set out today will be the strong action that any Government have take to tackle child sexual exploitation . there will be more police investigation , more arrest , a new inquiry , change to the law to protect child , and a fundamental overhaul of the way organisation work in order to support victim and put perpetrator behind bar , but none of that will work unless everyone be part of it , and everyone work together to keep our child safe . I commend this statement to the House . hopefully the report will be available in the Table Office for those member who wish to see it . the Home Secretary quite rightly take long than expect , and I have no problem with that . I say to the Leader of the Opposition , and to the Lib Dems , that it be available to they to do the same . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of the statement , although when I listen to it , I could not believe my ear . it be as if this be the Government ' s plan all along , when we all know it be another u - turn . after month of pressure , the Prime Minister have finally accept our call for a full , statutory , national inquiry into groom gang , and I welcome our finally reach this point . we must remember that this be not a victory for politician — especially not for the one , like the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister , who have to be drag to this position . this be a victory for the survivor , who have be call for this for year . however , I have be speak to many who do not have confidence that a Government who ignore their concern will deliver . before I turn to the detail of the Home Secretary ' s statement , I want to recognise the tireless work of those who refuse to let this issue be bury : survivor like Fiona Goddard , who bravely waive her anonymity ; the parent of survivor , like Marlon West , who I speak to this morning ; Maggie Oliver , whose courage in speak truth to power have be instrumental in bring we to this point ; the late Andrew Norfolk , whose fearless journalism bring these crime to light ; Baroness Casey for her review ; and Charlie Peters , who have consistently be a voice for the voiceless . the Prime Minister ' s handling of this scandal be an extraordinary failure of leadership . his judgment have , once again , be find want . since he become Prime Minister , he and the Home Secretary dismiss call for an inquiry because they do not want to cause a stir . they accuse those of we who demand justice for the victim of this scandal of " jump on a far - right bandwagon " , a claim that the Prime Minister ' s official spokesman restate this weekend — shameful . time and again , it have be leave to the Conservatives to force this issue . three time — [ interruption . ] they can all mutter now , but these Labour mp vote against a national inquiry three time . the Liberal Democrats do not bother to vote at all — asleep at the wheel . Labour mp vote against a reason amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , and in Committee they vote against the Bill . at Committee stage of the Crime and Policing Bill — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Swallow , I want you to set a good example . this be a very serious statement , and temper be run high , but I certainly do not want to see you point , shout and bawl in that way . Mr Speaker , they can point and shout as much as they like ; they know the truth , just as we on the conservative Benches do . three time — [ interruption . ] I will repeat myself : Labour mp vote against the reason amendment to the child ' s Bill ; in Committee , they vote against that Bill ; and they vote against the Crime and Policing Bill in Committee . they vote against a national inquiry and , at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister repeatedly rule out a national inquiry , to the cheer of all the Labour mp who be now pretend that they believe in an inquiry all along . no doubt , in her response to I , the Home Secretary will try to claim that the previous Government do nothing — a wholly false assertion that she should not repeat today . the Conservative Government take extensive action , start with the original Jay report , commission in 2014 by the then Home Secretary , Theresa May . a year later , she commission the independent investigation into child sexual abuse , and Sajid Javid commission ethnicity datum collection in 2018 . it be wrong to claim , as the Home Secretary do , that ethnicity data collection have not be do . I remind she that the Foreign Secretary criticise Sajid Javid at the time , say that he be bring the office of Home Secretary " into disrepute " , and that he be pander to the far - right for do exactly what the Home Secretary say she will now do . they should be ashamed of themselves . we accept all the recommendation make by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse in 2022 , except the recommendation to have a new Cabinet Minister , which would not have make any difference at all to the victim of this scandal . the Home Secretary claim that the recommendation sit on the shelf , but let I be clear that we go far than those recommendation . it be the Conservatives who establish the grooming gang taskforce , which support police force to make 807 arrest for group - base child sexual exploitation last year , so do not tell I that we do nothing . it be vital that this inquiry be robust , swift and , above all , independent . there be legitimate concern about institution investigate themselves , especially as some of the most egregious case of institutional failure occur in Labour - control authority . [ interruption . ] Labour Members can moan as much as they like , but the people out there believe that be why nothing have happen yet . in Greater Manchester , Operation Augusta be prematurely shut down . in Rotherham , which have be under continuous Labour control since 1974 , we see repeat failure . in Telford , where Labour have predominantly hold power , the current MP , the hon . member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , initially reject call for an inquiry while serve as council leader . this inquiry must have tooth . it must start with known hotspot such as Bradford and Rochdale , and I commend my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) for his persistent advocacy on this issue . we need clear commitment . for example , will the inquiry examine the role of ethnicity in these crime , confront hard truth about potential cover - up motivate by fear of appear racist ? [ interruption . ] there be no point in Labour Members mutter — the Home Secretary say it herself . I speak to the father of a survivor just this morning , and he tell I that survivor need to have someone who be independent and who they can go to and trust . it be no use they be force to speak to the same authority who ignore they in the first place . will this inquiry ensure that no one , whether police officer , councillor or council official , be beyond scrutiny ? the Government ' s approach to the Casey review itself raise serious concern . while the review ' s finding be crucial , we as legislator be send here to make decision , not to outsource the difficult one . the Prime Minister have wait month for someone to take this decision for he . that be the kind of dither and delay that the survivor complain about . we need answer to the follow question . the House deserve to know what change the Prime Minister ' s mind from think that this be dog - whistle , far - right politic to something that he must do . when exactly do Baroness Casey submit her finding to Downing Street , and do the Government request any change to her report ? do the Home Secretary agree that anyone in authority who deliberately cover up these disgusting crime should be prosecute for misconduct in public office and that those prosecution should happen alongside , not after the inquiry ? we believe that anyone in the police , local authority , social service or even the CPS who cover this up because they care more about so - call community relation than about protect vulnerable girl as young as 10 year old should be pursue . we welcome the Home Secretary ' s comment about perpetrator not be able to make asylum claim . I remind she that we put forward an amendment to the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , and she and all her colleague vote against that very measure . do she now agree that the perpetrator should also not be able to make human right claim to avoid deportation , and will she legislate to do that ? will the inquiry be conclude within two year , and will every one of the 50 town affect be cover , include Bradford , which be still refuse to conduct an inquiry into this ? will those local inquiry have the power to summon witness , or be that power only for the national inquiry ? most critically , we need a clear timeline for conclusion and action . the victim can not wait another decade for justice : we should be able to do this in two year . finally , we do not need to commission a report to tell we what we already know . will the Home Secretary apologise on behalf of herself , the Labour party and the Prime Minister for waste so much time and vote against this , dismiss the concern of the survivor ? the House , the british public and , most importantly , the many brave survivor deserve clear answer from a Government of dither and delay . I do not think the Leader of the opposition can have read the report and see the seriousness of its conclusion , because it set out a timeline of failure from 2009 to 2025 . repeat report and recommendation be not act on : on child protection , on police investigation , on ethnicity datum , on datum sharing and on support for victim . for 14 of those 16 year , her party be in government , include year in which she be the Minister for child and family , then the Minister for equality , cover race and ethnicity issue and violence against woman and girl . I do not hear she raise any of these issue until January this year . she will know that the Prime Minister do not just raise they but act on they : he bring the first prosecution against groom gang and call for action to address ethnicity issue in 2012 . she will also know that the safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and I have raise these issue repeatedly . the Leader of the Opposition refer to Professor Alexis Jay ' s independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . I call for that inquiry and strongly support it , and we want it to work on a cross - party basis . we support its conclusion , but the Leader of the Opposition ' s party do absolutely nothing to implement they . time and again , recommendation just sit on the shelf , and it have take this government to bring forward the mandatory duty to report . she say that we should ensure that people who have engage in cover - up be prosecute . I agree , which be why the Labour party be change the law to make that possible , so that cover - up can not happen and people be hold to account . the Leader of the Opposition also know that in the vote she refer to , what she want to do — the amendment she table — would have wreck the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . that Bill include two of Baroness Casey ' s recommendation to strengthen child protection , recommendation that the Leader of the Opposition and her party refuse to introduce over 14 year . I be sorry that she choose not to join in the apology to victim and survivor for decade of failure in 2022 . that apology be a cross - party one , which , if she really have victim ' interest and the national interest at heart , it should be again . I listen with cold fury to what be come out of the mouth of the Leader of the Opposition , because much of it be beneath contempt . I commend the Home Secretary for her statement and for commission a fiercely independent figure such as Louise Casey to conduct this national audit , without which we would not have have today ' s outcome . in Rochdale , we know all too well how many year it have take for victim to get the justice they deserve . they have wait many , many year to see these sick criminal lock up and put behind bar . only last week , we have seven more of these pervert lock up in Rochdale , which be a testament to the police and the prosecution who finally get those case together . however , the victim also want accountability for anyone in a position of authority , as the Home Secretary have say — anyone who find out about this , or know about it , and fail to act . do she agree that no councillor from any political party , no social worker , no police officer , no council officer and no ethnic group should hide from the fierce scrutiny of this national inquiry ? my hon . friend be right to raise the appalling case in his constituency , where seven people be convict on Friday . he will also know that further criminal investigation be still ongoing — it be shameful how long it have take to get justice for those victim . I agree with he that no one can hide from justice on this appalling issue , on which victim and survivor have be let down for far too long . I hope that support that aim will be a cross - party process . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . child sexual abuse and exploitation be among the most abhorrent crime imaginable , and we must all support every effort to deliver justice for victim and prevent these vile act from happen again . it be , of course , right that the government follow the recommendation of Baroness Casey ' s report , include a new national inquiry . survivor must be at the heart of this process . their voice , experience and insight must shape both the inquiry and its outcome , and I would welcome hear more from the Home Secretary about how she intend to ensure survivor be hear , be respect , and — essentially — be allow to build on their exist testimony without be ask to repeat themselves and relive their abuse again and again . the seven - year inquiry into child sexual abuse , chair by Professor Alexis Jay , deliver its final report in 2022 , and the Government at the time deliver none of its recommendation , leave survivor wait for justice . in her remark , the Home Secretary mention two of Professor Jay ' s recommendation be introduce through the Crime and Policing Bill : a mandatory reporting duty and aggravate offence for groom offender . what do this new inquiry mean for the remain recommendation of Professor Jay ? will victim and survivor see all 20 recommendation implement while the new inquiry be be carry out ? any new inquiry must be more than symbolic ; it must be robust , victim - centre and capable of drive real change . a duty of candour would require public official and authority to co - operate fully with such an inquiry , so it continue to be disappointing that the Government have delay bring that provision forward . I ask the Home Secretary plainly : what be stop the Government from introduce a duty of candour via a Hillsborough law now ? finally , now that Baroness Casey have complete her review , I welcome her appointment as chair of the independent commission into adult social care . I trust that she will bring to that hugely important role the same determination to challenge injustice and to champion the voice of those too often leave unheard . the hon . Member make important point about the seriousness of this crime , and she be right , too , that we need to continue to implement the recommendation of the overarch inquiry into child abuse . the Safeguarding Minister update the House before Easter on those recommendation and the action we be take forward on they . I can tell the hon . Lady that in the Home Office , measure be already well under way , and we will continue to do that . it be important that we do not simply have recommendation sit on shelf — thing have to be implement . on the Hillsborough law , we be work at pace to get the detail right and to bring it before the House . the hon . Lady will understand that it need to meet the expectation of the Hillsborough family , as well as be right for the House . we will continue to work on the wide issue , too . in her foreword , Baroness Casey say : " if we ' d get this right year ago — see these girl as child rape rather than ' wayward teenager ' or collaborator in their abuse , collect ethnicity datum , and acknowledge as a system that we do not do a good enough job — then I doubt we ' d be in this place now . " we lose a decade . we can not lose another one . first , may I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for her leadership and commitment to get a grip on this issue ? as a Member of Parliament for one of the large constituency of Muslim and pakistani heritage people , I know the sheer anger and condemnation that the vast majority of they share , like all briton who be against those who commit these vile action and vile sexual abuse . that be back up not only by recent polling by Opinium show that a majority of Muslims be deeply concerned about groom gang , but by sermon in mosque , letter from lead figure , demonstration on the street and so much more that be often not give the medium coverage it deserve . I be pleased to see that the National Crime Agency will be involve in the future inquiry . let I reiterate in this House that british Muslims stand on the side of victim and support the full force of the law be use against all perpetrator of abuse . do the Home Secretary agree that those who display selective outrage or fan the flame to blame entire community do nothing to protect innocent victim or far the cause of victim ? may I welcome my hon . friend ' s point that she make about the anger in her community and the anger across british muslim community towards the grooming gang , towards the rape of child and towards these appalling crime ? she have long call for work , include strong action from the police to be able to go after perpetrator and bring they to justice . she be right that the horror at crime commit against child and in particular against young girl be share across community . it be in the interest of those child and victim - survivor that we have reform now . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for early sight of it , and I be pleased that Baroness Casey have agree to appear before the Committee tomorrow to set out the content of her report more clearly . however , I be concerned about the potential for inquiry intend to get to the truth to prejudice criminal trial . how do the Home Secretary envisage the two element run alongside each other — an inquiry and criminal prosecution ? I welcome that question , and I be glad that Baroness Casey will have the opportunity to set out more detail of her finding . as the right hon . Lady will know , Baroness Casey have huge expertise and determination , and will be forthright in give the evidence that she have draw together . it will be important for the commission conduct the independent inquiry to have arrangement with police force to ensure that criminal investigation that be currently under way be not cut across . it be also important to ensure that we can uncover institutional failing , because institutional failure to pursue action , or the turning of a blind eye , need to be look into in particular area , as part of the local investigation and the national inquiry . as the right hon . Lady will know , arrangement of this kind have feature in past inquiry , so they can be make and will need to be make again now . let I first praise and pay tribute to survivor across the country , and draw attention again to the survivor who work in Telford along with I and various organisation to carry out the local review . we do so because the then Home Secretary , Amber Rudd , and the then local government Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , refuse to provide a statutory inquiry into what have happen in Telford . that be why we work with the police and crime commissioner — who happen to be a Conservative — and with people across the political spectrum to take this matter out of the party political field and try to find answer in our small part of the world . what we need , though , be action . we need action in respect of the Jay inquiry and in respect of the Casey review , but do the Home Secretary agree that we also need action in respect of the number of local review that have take place up and down the country whose finding have not be on the desk of Ministers over the last 14 year and which have therefore not receive the attention that they deserve ? my hon . friend be right : what we need be change and action , and recommendation from inquiry need to be implement . part of the strength of the Telford inquiry lie in the fact that victim and survivor be at its very heart , and there be also serious plan to ensure , and way of ensure , that the recommendation be implement . that be crucial . it be no good have inquiry if recommendation just sit on the shelf ; we must ensure that they be implement , as well as pursue answer . the fact that victim and survivor of this horrific crime literally have to become campaigner themselves to reach this outcome should make everyone in the House stop and think . when I last meet the Safeguarding Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , along with the lead child abuse lawyer David Greenwood , we point out the fundamental flaw in her Government ' s groom gang strategy : namely , the completely ridiculous decision to give council leader in area such as Keighley and Bradford the option to simply say no to an inquiry . now that we have an inquiry equip with statutory power , may I ask the Home Secretary what message she have for local leader in my region who think that they can still get away with say no , and what message she have for victim such as Fiona Goddard , who be also from my area and who will no doubt be worry , like I , that there will still be no focus on Keighley and the wide Bradford district ? I know that the hon . Member have meet the Safeguarding Minister . she have speak again to Fiona Goddard this morning to ensure that the voice of victim , survivor and campaigner be at the heart of the inquiry . he will know that the Safeguarding Minister say to he in their meeting that she would not allow local council to be able to turn their back and say no to investigation where they be need . that be why we have accept Baroness Casey ' s recommendation to have a national inquiry that will underpin those local investigation . obviously , the final decision will be matter for the independent chair of the commission , but we will ensure that the hon . member ' s concern and those of victim be pass on the national inquiry . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . I also pass on my thank to Dame Louise Casey for meet Oldham victim and survivor of CSE . they want no further delay to justice , and for perpetrator to face the full force of the law now . it be unacceptable that some be be give court date for 2028 , with all the risk that that imply . they want no more red tape , and they want survivor to be at the heart of root out perpetrator and get justice . can the Home Secretary ensure that this will happen , and will she now consider make misogyny a hate crime ? I welcome what my hon . friend have do over many year to champion victim in Oldham and across her constituency , and to work with survivor . she be right to point to the terrible delay in the justice system . she will know that the Lord Chancellor be take forward reform to look at how the huge backlog , particularly in Crown court case , can be deal with . justice delay be justice deny , and so many survivor have already wait far too long for justice . I assure my hon . friend that those concern be uppermost in the Lord Chancellor ' s mind . regardless of whether local inquiry be commission by council , will there be an opportunity for those same area to fall under the remit of the national inquiry , to ensure that some of the ongoing issue to which the Home Secretary herself have refer be catch within the new framework of the inquiry ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important question . ultimately , the final decision will need to be for the independent chair and the commission — that be what happen when we set it up as a national inquiry , rather than a Government process . he will know that concern have be raise about investigation and inquiry that have take place in Greater Manchester , where some area could not be compel to take part . as a result , there have be work with his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary to pursue the final stage of an investigation and inquiry . we do look at whether there be other power , either through local government act or through police inspection power . however , the simple way to address this issue be for it to be do through the national inquiry . the right hon . Gentleman will be able to make representation about his area , and other mps will be able to make representation about their area too . I welcome the statement and the absolute determination of Baroness Casey and this government to hold to account perpetrator and those who may have be involve in cover - up . one of the report ' s recommendation be about the confusion between different agency , and a particular element of that be about taxi licensing and taxi from out - of - town area . I know from my city of Peterborough the challenge to law - abide , decent taxi driver who be undercut by different licensing law , but also to law enforcement and the safety of passenger when we have number plate from different area . I note that that be the focus of one of the recommendation . can my right hon . friend give we more detail on how we will move at speed to create a level playing field nationally , so that passenger be safe and driver have the support they need to keep everyone safe ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . as he will know , many local authority across the country have work to ensure that they raise standard and check in their licensing arrangement , particularly those in area where there have be serious problem and criminal case . however , those check and safeguard can end up be undermine by the licensing of taxi in other area that do not have such check , so we be look to take forward reform to the law . the Transport Secretary be look at exactly this issue to make sure that we find a way to close the loophole . as a survivor of child sexual abuse myself , I stand in solidarity with the many victim and survivor the system have fail over many , many year . I can say that the horror , the trauma and the guilt never leave you , and I so hope that every survivor who be identify receive the mental health and other support that they deserve to help rebuild their life . survivor have witness very many promise , the 20 recommendation and the call of " never again " time and again . what will the Home Secretary do , and how will she reassure they that this will not be another one of those example ? can I just say that I be really let down and disgust that the Leader of the Opposition begin her remark with a party political assault on her opponent ? victim and survivor deserve more than a smug " I tell you so " diatribe . victim and survivor deserve action . I thank the hon . member for speak out about his experience . I do not underestimate how brave it be and how difficult it can be to do that , and he will be give all kind of support to other victim and survivor simply by the fact that he have do so . the hon . member be right to raise the challenge of how we ensure that recommendation be actually implement . he will know that we want to extend therapeutic support to victim and survivor , but as the Health Secretary be set out , we will start by provide additional support and training for those who provide mental health support in our school . at Manchester Minshull Street Crown court last week , seven man be convict for sicken crime as part of a grooming gang . one of their victim , girl a , who be abuse by in excess of 50 man , be advise by the police to make a claim for criminal injury compensation , for which she would have receive just £ 22 , 000 . she do not make a claim , but that do not stop the defence from argue that she make up accusation to bolster a claim for compensation . the Government will be aware that I have raise on many occasion the inadequacy of the criminal injury compensation framework for victim of sexual violence and exploitation , and they will be aware of recommendation from the IICSA review and the Victims ' Commissioner on this matter . while no amount of money could be adequate to compensate victim such as girl a , we owe it to they to ensure that they have the financial support require to rebuild their life and do not have to choose between that and justice . how much long will we all be wait for this ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . the Safeguarding Minister take this issue very seriously , and we can not have issue relate to the criminal injury compensation scheme be raise in court in a way that undermine victim and survivor , who have bravely show that they be able to speak out about abuse that have haunt their life for so long . we will look at this issue far . I welcome the statement from the Home Secretary , and the fact that there will now be a national inquiry . do the Home Secretary think that it will be finish within , let we say , two year for the british people ? give that she quite rightly apologise to the victim and survivor , will she apologise on behalf of the Prime Minister , who smear and label those of we who call for a national inquiry ? the hon . member raise the timescale . in the discussion we have have with Baroness Casey , and recognise the many issue that people want to raise in the inquiry , we have expect that it would take around three year , but if the commission be able to work fast than that , people will clearly want answer as swiftly as possible . the final detail about the timing be obviously to be determine . we need to make sure both that we be implement the recommendation of previous inquiry and that we be pursue far the investigation in local area as swiftly as possible . I reiterate in my statement a recognition of the huge harm that have be do to victim and survivor through the decade . I would urge the hon . member to look at the 17 - page section of Louise Casey ' s report on the failure , year after year , to follow through and take action , and I do believe that victim and survivor be owe an apology for that failure over very many year . I think it be fair to say that although there be many issue in this House we disagree on , an issue of this magnitude be something that should bring all of we , as parliamentarian , together to work to ensure that we get justice for the victim . the Home Secretary outline the next phase , but if we be really honest with ourselves , for every victim who have come forward to share her horrific testimony , there be so many more girl up and down the country who have not come forward . it be in their interest that we make sure we get this right . the Home Secretary outline the issue around datum and the lack of datum gathering . one area I have raise consistently be criminal exploitation by gang who sexually exploit young people and then use they to carry out their horrific county line up and down the country . do the Home Secretary agree that the collection of datum must also lay with the Metropolitan police , other police force across the country and the British Transport police ? my hon . friend be right that so many victim and survivor do not come forward . we need to make it easy for people to do so , and recognise the scale of abuse . I agree with she on the really important issue about county line and the interaction between criminal exploitation and sexual exploitation . too often , the county line and criminal exploitation be see as an issue involve teenage boy , but very often teenage girl be also draw in — and very often , that also mean sexual exploitation . I do not believe that enough investigation have yet be do into that particular pattern and form of child sexual abuse and exploitation . as we strengthen the law on the criminal exploitation of child , we need to ensure that this issue be properly pursue , as she say , as part of the data gathering and through further research . this government have be drag kick and scream to deliver a national inquiry , have dismiss the plea of the nation as jump on a far - right bandwagon . that reluctance be why my hon . friend the Member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) will continue his inquiry and why I will be support he it . will the Government ' s inquiry investigate the political motivation behind the cover - up , include the role of the Labour party , or will that continue to be sweep under the carpet ? everyone should want not just to get to the truth about past failure , but to ensure we make the change to protect child for the future . that include change in social service ; change in police and the police operation , which I hope the right hon . Lady would welcome , to take action to put perpetrator behind bar ; and action to gather proper ethnicity datum , which simply have not be gather properly before . Louise Casey ' s report be very clear : the data gathering that the right hon . Lady ' s government leave behind be totally inadequate . I hope she will agree to all those factor be extremely important , so that we can get strong protection , and truth , for victim . I welcome the Government ' s announcement that there will be a national inquiry . every penny spend on stamp out the evil of child abuser be money well spend . although welcome , notice of this inquiry will undoubtedly cause a great deal of trauma and distress for both historic and present - day victim , as violation commit against they be revisit . as the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) reference , what step can the Government take to ensure that victim and witness have access to robust mental health support ? how can we ensure that our court — as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) — especially in place like Greater Manchester that face extensive court backlog , be sufficiently resource to ensure that at the end of the process justice be finally deliver ? I know that my hon . friend have champion victim and survivor in her area and community . she be right to say that we have to make sure that victim and survivor get support . some 7 , 000 victim and survivor give evidence to the original Professor Alexis Jay inquiry . it be so important that they do not do so in vain , and that we make the reform and the change relate to that recommendation . my hon . friend be also right to say we need to increase the therapeutic support for victim and survivor . that will start with provide additional support for child . one of the reason I be not supportive six month ago , in January , of the Government ' s strategy be that it could not compel local inquiry to bring forward witness , which be key . listen to our question carefully , could the Home Secretary clarify whether those local inquiry will be able to compel witness , whether that be also the case on the national side , and whether those power will be use to ensure that no stone be leave unturned ? the answer be yes . I recognise that the hon . Gentleman have raise this issue . back in January , I say that I would undertake further work to ensure that the local investigation have the power to compel witness in order to be able to get the evidence . we agree with Baroness Casey and have conclude that the right way to do this be to have the national inquiry , which will mean that every local investigation have full power to compel witness and evidence . where and how those investigation take place will be direct by the national commission and the national inquiry , in order to ensure they have those full power in place . the crime we be discuss today be not just an historic crime ; it be happen right now out in community , and we be fail to protect the current victim of this awful child abuse . I welcome the new inquiry , but my concern be about delay . we have have plenty of inquiry , taskforce and review whose conclusion have not be implement . my concern be that this new inquiry will monopolise our attention , when we should also be focus on protect victim right now . will the Home Secretary commit to this inquiry not detract or divert resource from the recommendation that we know need to be implement and to roll out nationally the devolved child trafficking pilot , which we know have be work for four year , in order to protect child victim ? I can tell my hon . friend that we be go to expand that , and that we will not let up the pace of implement measure and recommendation . that include the work that the Education Secretary be already do on the mandatory sharing of datum on child at risk , the new identifier and the measure in the Crime and Policing Bill on mandatory reporting . crucially , we have also already increase the resource for police operation to be able to review closed case . that be why we already have 800 case identify for review , although we expect that figure shortly to rise to over 1 , 000 case . those be case that be close with no further action be take that be now be look at again — not wait for the inquiry , but take action now to protect child . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and I be the sole remain member of the House who serve on the Communities and Local Government Committee when we conduct the inquiry into Rotherham , in both November 2014 and March 2015 . we hear from the victim then about the terrible abuse they have suffer and interview Dame Louise Casey at great length about her concern over what be happen and what be be allow to happen . there be clearly still something go on , which be that most victim be young girl from broken home who have be take into care by local authority and have never experience the love of a family . they then take the view that someone express some form of love be something that they should like and enjoy , when the reality be that they be be ruthlessly exploit by individual who should know well , and be evil . the key concern here be the lackadaisical approach that have be take by many local authority , social worker , police force and other body . my genuine concern , which I be sure be share by other member , be that a local inquiry will not get individual who either turn a blind eye or actually participate in the abuse to give evidence . will the Home Secretary ensure that witness be call to those inquiry under oath so that we can get to the bottom of this , and make sure that those who turn a blind eye to or connive in this abuse be bring to justice as well as the perpetrator ? I reassure the hon . member that the point of have the national inquiry be to ensure that where local institution be be examine , the commission have power to compel witness , take evidence under oath and gather information , paper and evidence as it see fit to make sure that we can get to the heart of this institutional failure . the hon . member be also right to say that this be about vile criminal know when young child — teenage girl especially — be vulnerable to the most appalling exploitation and coercion . they play with child ' s emotion and vulnerability to draw they into what be ultimately violent crime and the most terrible abuse . this raise question , particularly when the number of child protection case around sexual abuse identify by social service have drop . we be very concerned about that , and the Education Secretary be now investigate . there be also a failure to properly share datum about the child who be at risk — the one who be go miss . the hon . member mention the evidence from the work he and the Communities and Local Government Committee do 10 year ago about miss child and child in care . it be all the same evidence now , and we have get to be well at pursue the evidence . I strongly welcome the Home Secretary ' s announcement of an inquiry and its commitment to survivor . it be absolutely right that the inquiry focus on local area where we know that survivor have be fail by the authority that be suppose to protect they , but it be also essential that we draw lesson for the whole UK . early this year , Professor Alexis Jay from the University of Strathclyde warn the Home Affairs Committee that Scotland be not immune to the kind of organise abuse that we have witness elsewhere in the UK . Scotland ' s victim and survivor deserve the same assurance on accountability and robust safeguarding measure as anywhere else in the UK , so will the Home Secretary actively seek engagement with the Scottish Government , and offer they support and advice to ensure that they wholeheartedly implement the Jay recommendation effectively ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . the Minister for Safeguarding will follow up these issue with the devolved administration . my hon . friend be right that this be a devolved issue but that this kind of appal crime be happen everywhere . action be need everywhere to safeguard and protect child . order . I appreciate how sensitive the topic be , but long question mean that few colleague will get in . shorter answer from the Secretary of State will help as well . at one of my surgery , I hear from a civil servant who have gather evidence for the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse across the whole of England . they describe themselves as be " leave emotionally and physically drain " after collect evidence , only for the Government not to act on it . I welcome this Government ' s acceptance of the 12 Casey review finding , but will the Secretary of State assure my constituent and other civil servant that there will be no delay in implement the finding of the IICSA ? I can assure the hon . member that we be take forward the recommendation already . the Minister for Safeguarding update the House on all the iicsa recommendation before Easter . some require legislation , include legislation that be pass through the House at the moment . we will have further discussion on those issue later this week . we be already able to take forward some of the issue , and we will continue to update the House on the progress of the recommendation . I welcome this evidence - lead action on groom gang . it take courage to come forward and share deeply traumatic experience , so will the Home Secretary confirm that this inquiry will build on the evidence already collect and recommendation make over previous inquiry , investigation and report , include the last national inquiry , which in 2022 produce a 200 - page report specifically on groom gang and look at over 400 recommendation that have already be make ? crucially , will she ensure that there be no delay to the action that this Government be already take to bring perpetrator to justice , stamp out these vile crime and protect our vulnerable child ? I agree with my hon . friend . we have agree to implement all the recommendation from the two - year inquiry into child sexual exploitation conduct as part of the Professor Alexis Jay review . we be take forward one of those — on aggravate sentencing for groom offence — as part of the Crime and Policing Bill . we be also introduce similar , parallel arrangement for online abuse because we must ensure that we be also take action on online grooming , which have escalate and accelerate since Professor Jay ' s work . my Hillingdon constituent have see the work that the local authority have have to do over many decade to deal with child sexual exploitation and trafficking arise from Heathrow . when I lead the Local Government Association ' s response — when these case first come to light — one issue that arise be the sharing of information . will the Home Secretary assure the House that , follow this inquiry , she will upgrade the status of the " work together to Safeguard Children " guidance and , in particular , ensure that those body accountable to the Home Office , such as the police , understand it and take it as seriously as other body do so that we do not see people fall through the crack between agency ? I welcome the hon . member ' s point . Baroness Casey ' s review identify that sexual exploitation be a central part of trafficking , and modern slavery as well . I agree with he about the importance of share information . time and again on these basic thing , everybody say the right word and then it do not happen in practice . we need the law to change , but we also need system to change to make it easy to share that information . we will take that forward both in policing and as part of the work that my right hon . friend the Education Secretary be do so that it be much easy to share that information . do my right hon . friend agree that there have be no vote on whether to have a national inquiry into groom gang — the vote be about the safeguard of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill — and that follow the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse and the 200 page that deal specifically with grooming gang , the Government be right to have the local inquiry and the rapid national audit ? now that Baroness Casey have recommend a national inquiry into groom gang , the conservative party should be work with we for the sake of the victim rather than attempt to score political point , as the Leader of the Opposition do . Baroness Casey ' s audit be conduct in just four month but look at some of the issue in considerable detail . it also set out the fact that we have have 16 year of different report and inquiry — that include some of the issue around the 200 - page report that my hon . friend refer to , and other report as well . the crucial thing be that we need action . victim and survivor need answer , and we need to pursue serious failing wherever they be find , but we must also ensure that when recommendation be make , they be implement . Plaid Cymru welcome the Government ' s statement and hope that it will lead to concrete , properly fund action . in February , a Plaid Cymru amendment call on the Welsh Government to work with police force on an all - Wales audit of child abuse case , and it be back unanimously . what concrete step have be take between the Welsh and UK government since the passing of that vote to bring justice to victim ? the hon . Member will know that many of the issue around social service provision be matter for the Welsh Government , but issue around police be cover by the Home Office . we have already be work with police force across the country to strengthen the work of the child sexual exploitation taskforce to be able to look at different case that have be close , as well as to strengthen their work with local partner to be able to pursue these terrible crime . as part of the police operation that will be lead by the National Crime Agency and draw on expertise from across the country , we will ensure that that connect with the work be do by the Welsh Government . the Safeguarding Minister be follow up with devolved administration . far to the quite pertinent comment from the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , this country ' s broken social care system for child be potentially create future victim today , and while a review at local level will look at what happen in the past , we need to do our good to make sure that these crime by appal people do not continue . what more will the Home Secretary be do with the Department for Education to ensure that young people who be be groom online and groom in public can spot the sign so that they know when and how to ask for help ? otherwise , unfortunately , we could see this cycle continue for decade to come . I agree with my hon . friend that we need action across social service , and that be why the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill that the Education Secretary be take forward be so important . the issue around online grooming and exploitation be immensely important . this be both about the abuse that stay online , often force child to get involve in the most appalling abuse and act through online blackmail , pressure and coercion , and about the way in which this be use to provoke offline activity lead to offline physical abuse and contact abuse . we be work with the National Crime Agency on new technology to address this and with the Education Department on how we build child ' s resilience in deal with these crime . much have be make in the House this afternoon of the fact that the former Director of Public Prosecutions , now the Prime Minister , instigate a prosecution against groom gang . that be so , he be clearly well place than most of we to understand the need for the national inquiry that he initially so rigidly resist , but I would like to associate myself with the apology offer by the right hon . Lady to the House on behalf of all of we and all the authority that have fail young people so dismally . those young people now want to know that they can have confidence and trust in the national inquiry , and in who lead it . can she tell the House who that be likely to be , and what term of reference they will have ? the term of reference will be set out in due course . we have not yet appoint or determine the chair for the national inquiry . we will do so and set that out for the House . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s response on the issue of the national apology for the historical and current challenge that have lead to victim be let down over very many year . I think his response echo the way in which the whole House come together in 2022 around similar support for victim . I welcome the Casey report and the new action outline by the Secretary of State today . I specifically welcome the requirement for the collection of ethnicity and nationality datum . the report refer to different and change model and pattern of abuse . the Secretary of State will be aware that there have be historical allegation involve the grooming and sexual abuse of Sikh girl . will she ensure that the requirement to collect ethnicity and nationality datum extend to victim , so that we can see the evidence for any such model once and for all ? my hon . friend raise an important issue about victim . victim in the many community that he have talk about , include Sikh girl , often lack the confidence to come forward and feel the sense of shame that prevent young people from be able to ask for help when they need it . it be therefore essential that we strengthen the ethnicity datum around victim as well as around perpetrator , to make sure that victim and survivor in all community get the support and safeguard they need . the official document publish online by the Government say that the national inquiry will only " co - ordinate a series of targeted local investigation . " how many local investigation will the inquiry co - ordinate ? will it cover the whole of England and Wales — yes or no ? the decision about which area be look into , and how many , will be matter for the commission . we envisage the commission last for three year . I know that the Leader of the opposition suggest two year , but we think it will need around three year to be able to pursue the scale of work that be need . I think it be right that the final decision be one for the commission and the independent national inquiry itself , and it will be able to look anywhere across England and Wales and to pursue the evidence wherever it see fit . I thank the Home Secretary for the robust measure she have lay out . can she reaffirm the commitment that the Government make in January that the IICSA recommendation relevant to the Home Office will be implement in full ? yes , I can . that work be either complete or well under way . in an era when information be increasingly contest and weaponise , political party would do well to lead by example by provide credible information and avoid the spread of disinformation , include about the event , proceeding and procedure of this House . give that Baroness Casey ' s report address what be , frankly , a matter of the utmost sensitivity involve highly vulnerable young girl , will the Secretary of State ensure that the operation and eventual finding of the report be communicate clearly , responsibly and in a timely manner to the public , and that disinformation be actively counter to prevent political distortion , the incitement of harm and the further diminution of public trust ? I respect the hon . member ' s important point . in fact , inaccurate information be one of the issue that Baroness Casey raise . whether it be about ethnicity or anything else , inaccurate information can cause huge problem , and the more we ensure that information be robust , the well . as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee say , Baroness Casey will also give evidence tomorrow , so people will be able to hear directly from she as well as read her report . the victim and survivor of groom gang and CSE have be institutionally let down , and we must ensure that they be front and centre in our approach . I join other colleague in say that court delay must be look at . they be a particular issue in West Yorkshire , and it be traumatic for the survivor . Baroness Casey report on the Smith algorithm develop by West Yorkshire police , which bring hundred of people into scope as victim and survivor and help prosecution rate . will that good practice be share ? Baroness Casey be impress by the work that West Yorkshire police have do use what it call the Smith algorithm ; it be include in her report . it look at risk factor , such as child miss from home or school , those with repeat miss episode , and child in care , and at area where risk be high . it use that to identify people who might be victim of child groom and sexual abuse and exploitation , and then to pursue that evidence . West Yorkshire police have have a series of effective and successful prosecution that have put perpetrator behind bar , so I join my hon . friend in welcome that work . I would like to ask the Home Secretary about the historical sexual abuse and child sexual abuse of Sikh woman and child . the Sikh community have say that when Sikh girl go to the local authority or the police , they be tell — even by the medium — that it be an " ethnic problem " , or that it be an " asian problem " . I welcome the fact that the Home Secretary will be record datum , but what datum will that be ? will Sikh girl who have be abuse no long just be tell that it be an " asian problem " ? I welcome the hon . member ' s point . it be immensely important that victim and survivor in every community of every ethnicity can get justice and the support they need , and that issue around race and ethnicity be never use as an excuse to ignore victim or to fail to pursue criminal commit the most terrible crime . we want to work with the police to ensure not only that we can get effective datum and recording on victim , but that the right kind of service and support be in place so that every victim be hear . I be shocked that the Conservatives do not seem able to recognise that they be in power for 14 of the 15 year to which Louise Casey refer in her report . if they have have any kind of enthusiasm for an inquiry when they be in government , they would have call one — so we can dismiss they . be my right hon . friend confident that we be hear the voice of the victim — the child and their parent ? when we have a similar problem when I be in local government back in the ' 90 , we set up a thing call Childline to give a direct voice to young people so that they could raise their concern . do she think that we should have a similar thing here so that victim of child sexual exploitation can have their voice hear ? my hon . friend make an important point . on the history and the action that have be take , one thing that Baroness Casey criticise in particular be a 2020 report produce by the Home Office under the previous Government . she say that the conclusion that it come to be simply not justify by the datum , and that the datum gather be inadequate . I think everyone should recognise that sufficient action have not be take , be it on datum , share or implement recommendation . on victim and survivor , the Minister for Safeguarding be do immensely important work to look at way of ensure that their voice can be at the heart of the new national inquiry and all Home Office work in this area . I do not believe that I hear an answer to a number of the question ask by the Leader of the Opposition , so I will ask the Home Secretary again . when do Baroness Casey submit her finding , and do the Government request any change ? ten day ago , and this be Baroness Casey ' s independent report . anybody who suggest that she would change her view and report for anyone have not meet she . I welcome the pace and focus that the Home Secretary have bring to Baroness Casey ' s report . she be right to highlight the risk of the online space and the rapidity with which it have become a focus . can she give assurance that protocol will change accordingly , so that we look for the information that we do not know about , and that the case of survivor and victim who have be criminalise will be quash , so that those people do not carry conviction for the exploitation that they experience ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point about the need to ensure that victim be not criminalise for the coercion and crime commit against they . that failure — the tendency to blame victim for the appalling crime commit against they — have be a pervasive problem through the year . we be look far at the issue of online grooming and exploitation , which be escalate . in a complication , more teenager themselves be involve in that exploitation . it be more complicated to identify where people be be coerce and where they be actually criminal commit these crime . it be amazing , staggering , that Labour mp can come here today and welcome an inquiry , yet when they be give the chance , they all vote against one . these girl — the victim of the pakistani groom gang — be kidnap , abuse , drug and rape , and when they reach out for help , everybody ignore they . it be little wonder that they have no faith in the system . but they can regain faith if the Home Secretary agree with I and appoint Maggie Oliver as chair of the inquiry . I say to the hon . member that child sexual exploitation and abuse be some of the most vile crime that our country face . what Baroness Casey ' s report set out in some detail , over 17 page , be that there have be report after report after review after review but so many of the recommendation be never implement , so concern that be raise at the time of the Rotherham inquiry about issue around ethnicity , lack of information - sharing and lack of protection for child be simply not act on . Baroness Casey herself say : " if we ' d get this right year ago — see these girl as child rape rather than ' wayward teenager ' … then I doubt we ' d be in this place now . " the hon . Member be a member of the previous Government , who fail to do that . I hope that he agree that successive government and agency across the country have fail to act . we need to ensure that there be a proper independent inquiry , as well as , most crucially of all , action by police in the operation that will bring perpetrator to justice and put they behind bar . I thank my right hon . friend the Home Secretary for her statement . one of the question run through Baroness Casey ' s audit be " why ? " — not just why that type of offending have be allow to grow unchecked in our society , but why people be drive to commit such vile crime . can the Home Secretary assure I that the Government will commission serious , thorough and consider research into the driver of group - base child sexual exploitation , include look at all the issue around ethnicity and age ? will those finding be share with the devolved Administrations who , as we have hear , have not be exempt from these issue ? yes , I can say to my hon . friend that we accept that recommendation in Baroness Casey ' s report and we will commission research into the driver of child sexual exploitation and , more widely , violence against woman and girl , so that we have strong evidence to keep child safe . Bradford and Keighley taxis operate in Skipton and south Craven — there have be some horrific case in that area . will the Home Secretary confirm that the inquiry will not be restrict to Bradford and the big conurbation ? in the UK , we have a crisis in our inquiry system : they all take too long . the covid inquiry be still ongoing , which be an absolute scandal . can she accelerate the timing ? will she give serious consideration to this public inquiry be hold in the north of England ? I agree that there be challenge with inquiry that can take a long time , which mean that victim and survivor , or those affect by the inquiry , wait a very long time for answer . that be why it be critical that we introduce and implement recommendation from previous inquiry — that we get on with it and strengthen police operation now to put perpetrator behind bar . I can also tell the right hon . Gentleman that we will not restrict where the inquiry go or where the commission choose to investigate . I welcome Baroness Casey ' s audit and the Government ' s instigation of the national inquiry , which must leave no stone unturned , lead to conviction and lead to perpetrator and anybody complicit be put behind bar where , as far as I be concern , they can rot . it be also important that this most serious of issue demand serious and consider conduct from people in this place , include not misrepresent what happen here . will the Home Secretary confirm that if the reason amendment refer to by the Leader of the opposition have pass , it would not have lead to a national inquiry ; it would have block child protection measure , and it weaponise child rape to go after click — [ interruption . ] order . I call the Home Secretary . we want action to be take across the board to make sure that child be protect and that the recommendation be introduce . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill that the opposition vote against be an opportunity to implement two of the recommendation in Baroness Casey ' s audit . it be right that we implement those change to strengthen the protection of child and to keep young people safe . I welcome a lot of what the Home Secretary have say today ; she keep refer to institutional failure . in Bradford in 2020 , a little girl , Star Hobson , be murder by her mother ' s partner . evidence come to light from neighbour and social service that the case be dismiss because it involve a lesbian couple and people fear be accuse of be homophobic . I have also have issue in my constituency since the last election where social worker have be worried about the other label that they may get ; they have a tick box and leave the child at the bottom . I ask the Home Secretary to consider that institutional failure where people be afraid to offend one group or another , and they often lose sight of the fact that the child be the most important part of the care service . crime be crime , and the safety of child should always be paramount , whatever the circumstance , and we must always pursue the evidence . that be why the mantra around police be to pursue the evidence " without fear or favour " , and that be the standard that british policing have long apply . that be the approach we always have to take to child ' s safety , wherever issue or concern be raise . I put on record my thank to Baroness Casey and the Home Secretary — the first Home Secretary in 16 year to come here with an independent review . these girl , now woman , be abuse , traumatise and then retraumatise by a system that do little to protect they or help they get justice . we should always put the life and safety of young girl before any political concern , which be why I welcome today ' s decision . will the Home Secretary lie out how predator , and those who deny victim justice , will be hold accountable follow this inquiry ? we must ensure that recommendation be implement . one conclusion in the Baroness Casey audit state : " the timeline set out above — " that be the history of fail report in the past — " show a pattern of case after case of offending that be prosecute , review and then recommendation for improvement make and repeat , but not follow through . we become so used to hear about these issue that they become more about justification for failure rather than problem that need to be fix . " we must ensure that these problem be fix . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement that those who be convict of such crime will not be able to take part in the asylum system , and I suggest that she may want to extend that to all crime against the person . the question that my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) ask be this : will the Home Secretary ensure that no fallacious human right claim can be make that mean that these people can not be deport if convict of these crime ? we be strengthen the safeguard in the asylum system . the system that we inherit be too weak and not strong enough to ensure not only that the rule be respect and enforce , but to deal particularly with issue of criminality and public risk . we be strengthen those safeguard , include the law around sexual offence , and we be look particularly at issue around the way article 8 be be interpret . we be also strengthen public protection arrangement . we be bring in new arrangement to ensure that , should any issue be raise by the police or other about any safety risk or anybody in the asylum system , joint public protection agreement and arrangement between the police and Immigration Enforcement , people can be keep safe . I welcome the clarity and focus on action that the Home Secretary have bring to the House . this morning I speak to the father of a young woman in my constituency who be the victim of child sexual exploitation . he think that this be the right way forward , but his concern , and mine , be for those victim and survivor whose trauma will be open up again by the process . as he put it : " when you open Pandora ' s box , you ' ve get to have the tool to deal with whatever come out . " will the Home Secretary say more about the tool that she will put in place to support the survivor at the heart of this issue ? my hon . friend make an important point . too often , victim and survivor have be ask to tell their story , often to multiple agency , and then have see no action , which simply strengthen the distress that they feel . seven thousand victim and survivor give evidence to the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . as we draw up the arrangement for the national inquiry , we will work closely , as will the safeguarding Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department ( Jess Phillips ) , to keep victim and survivor in our mind . we must ensure that they have support , and that the point my hon . friend have raise on behalf of her constituent , and for the victim and their family , be take seriously . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement , specifically about allow the NCA to head the operation , with partner agency , and work across all region . as a barrister , I have speak to many NCA officer and law enforcement officer , and one consistent criticism be that they do not have enough resource . this will be an enormous investigation , up and down the country , so will the Home Secretary assure the House that the resource that those officer will need to complete the investigation will not be limit ? we have already provide some additional resource for policing , so that officer will be able to undertake the assessment and identification of case that be close but need to be reopen , or where other line of inquiry need to be follow up . the hon . Gentleman will know that the National Crime Agency already do immensely important work through Operation Stovewood around South Yorkshire , and through its work on online child abuse . we need to bring all the different programme of work close together , involve both the National Crime Agency and the new centre for public protection that we be set up , which will be about set new standard across the country and roll out the national operating model that all force can then follow . I commend the Home Secretary for the dignified way in which she give her statement . I associate myself with her apology to the victim and survivor of sexual exploitation and groom gang for past failure . I welcome the Government have accept the recommendation of Baroness Casey ' s rapid audit and the announcement of a national criminal operation to pursue and convict perpetrator . justice for victim of these horrific crime must always be our top priority . West Yorkshire police have take a proactive approach to secure justice for victim . as recently as January this year , eight man be give jail sentence of nearly 58 year for multiple sexual offence against two child in Keighley in the 1990 . will she join I in commend the work of West Yorkshire police in bring the perpetrator of those vile crime to justice ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the work of West Yorkshire police . they have do pioneer work to find new way to identify victim who may be at risk and to summon evidence where there be repeat miss case , and they have be forensic and determine in pursuit of action . I commend the work of the assistant chief constable . learn from the work that the police have do , we want to make Baroness Casey ' s recommendation a central part of the national criminal operation . the sexual exploitation of vulnerable child in this country be a stain upon our society , and the victim want not just the truth out but transparency . with that in mind , will the Home Secretary confirm whether the Government ask Baroness Casey to change any element of her report — yes or no ? this be Baroness Casey ' s independent report . the whole point about ask somebody like Baroness Casey to do an independent report be that we know that they will come to their own conclusion , not anybody else ' s . as the hon . Gentleman will see , the report have Baroness Casey ' s forthright style and conclusion . in her evidence tomorrow at the Home Affairs Committee , I think she will make it clear that these be her conclusion . I pay tribute to victim , survivor and campaigner . I be 40 year old and it have take be that age for I to be able to talk about some of the abuse that happen when I be a child . as one of the countless victim live with the impact of groom , sexual and psychological abuse , I find it gall to watch Tory and Reform Members who never once lift a finger — [ interruption . ] no , you didn ' t — not one finger lift . order . " you didn ' t " — you be talk through the Chair . please ask a quick question as there remain colleague who hope to contribute . I find it gall that those member have appoint themselves as defender of abused people for political gain . do the Home Secretary agree that neither history nor the british people will be kind to the sicken political opportunism that we have see from the conservative and reform party ? I thank my hon . friend for speak out about his experience . to speak out as a victim of child abuse in that way be immensely difficult , and I think everyone should listen to what victim and survivor have to say . I thank he for speak out , because by do so he provide strength and inspiration to other victim and survivor across the country , and I pay tribute to he for do so . he be right that this should be something that everyone can agree on , because it be about the protection of child and the tackling of serious crime . I hope all of we can do that with respect and together . I hope something else we can all agree on be our admiration for the former Labour MP Ann Cryer , who expose what be go on back in 2003 , which be only five year into a 13 - year - long Labour Government , and be disgracefully smear as a racist for do so . let we belatedly make an apology to she and thank she for her courage . I do thank my former honourable Friend Ann Cryer , because she do speak out and stand up for child who be be abuse . it be because of that that I recognise , as part of the response I make to the 2022 child abuse inquiry and again today , that this have be a historic failure over very many decade . just as I recognise that historic failure , which everyone should recognise , I hope the right hon . Gentleman will persuade those on his Front Bench also to recognise the historic failure and to take some responsibility . it be really sad that the Leader of the Opposition do not choose to respond to , or join in , the historic apology in 2022 , which be a cross - party apology involve the former Home Secretary . I be really sorry that she choose not to do so today . I very much welcome the Home Secretary call a national inquiry . I be particularly take with Baroness Casey ' s first recommendation that child must be see as child . I be extremely concerned by the number of case she have identify that be drop because those child be see as consent to sex with their perpetrator . will the Home Secretary reassure I that those case will be open and look at immediately and that we do not have to wait for the outcome of the national inquiry ? I can tell my hon . friend that we be work with the Lord Chancellor on take forward this recommendation now and not wait for any further local inquiry . Baroness Casey be really clear that the adultification of child , treat they as consent to something into which they be coerce and in which they be exploit , lie at the heart of a lot of the institutional failure to take this crime seriously . that be why we need to change the law , but we also need to change attitude , because some of the case that Baroness Casey refer to be recent , and that can not go on . the Home Secretary refer to this inquiry as a national inquiry , but it be not , be it ? the inquiry ' s term of reference and scope will exclude concern about groom and organise sexual exploitation in Northern Ireland , whether by foreign national , paramilitary group or other . be that less important to this Government ? will the legislative change increase the statutory rape age to 16 apply across the whole United Kingdom ? the hon . and learn Member will understand that Home Office responsibility around police and crime cover England and Wales . the Safeguarding Minister will be follow up with the devolved administration , and it will be for they to decide how they want to take these issue forward , include in Northern Ireland . the Lord Chancellor will consult in the normal way with devolved administration on change to the law . any and every instance of child sexual exploitation should shame all of we , but I think what so many of we find particularly horrific about the grooming gang scandal be the fact that those crime continue to be perpetrate because of a failure to act by stakeholder and agency that have completely indefensible preconceive notion about the victim they be speak to . as such , I welcome the Government follow the evidence , not the politic — first in appoint Baroness Casey to conduct the review , and then in ensure that we do not shy away from a national inquiry when she have call for one . will the Home Secretary ensure that the inquiry have all the power it need to compel any and every stakeholder who potentially play a part in walk on by from this scandal to take part and give evidence , and will she legislate where necessary so that anyone who be show to have play a part in those victim not get the justice they deserve to begin with be accountable before the law ? my hon . friend be right that those attitude towards teenage girl — towards child — and treat they as adult still persist . Baroness Casey quote a serious case review of a case involve a teenager online . she be just 12 or 13 year old , and be be draw into the most explicit and abusive chatroom and pornographic site online . this be treat as somehow be the child ' s choice , even though there be evidence of exploitation and crime take place . we have to ensure that we do more to protect our teenager , and we will bring in the mandatory duty to report to strengthen the law in that area . I call Dr Ben Spencer to ask the final question . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and for change her mind on the need for a national inquiry . she have have the Casey report for the past 10 day . could she lay out what evidence in that report be most persuasive in change her mind , or , if she reach that conclusion independent of the report , which factor lead she to do so ? that be an important question . I undertake to this House in January that I would look far at how to ensure that local investigation have the power they need to compel witness or evidence . that be raise with we by member of this House , but also by mayor , to ensure that those investigation could properly get to the truth . we pursue that and look at other power — those in the Local Government Act , inspection power and so on . all those power have complexity attach to they , so we ask Baroness Casey to look at this issue , as well as the response we get from local authority . we look at that evidence , but also ask Baroness Casey to look at it as well and make final recommendation . that be why we have agree with Baroness Casey ' s recommendation to have a national inquiry in place . Iran - Israel Conflict with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will remind the House that the Foreign Office have be respond to two crisis in this past week . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , will update the House on the Government ' s extensive effort to assist those whose loved one lose their life in Thursday ' s devastate Air India plane crash . just nine day ago , I be in Delhi , strengthen our friendship . our nation be mourn together , and my thought be with those suffer such terrible loss . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will now turn to the middle east . early last Friday morning , Israel launch extensive strike across Iran . the target include military site , the uranium enrichment facility at Natanz , key commander and nuclear scientist . the last 72 hour have see iranian ballistic missile and drone strike across Israel , kill at least 21 Israelis and injure hundred more , and israeli strike have continue , include on target in Tehran , with the iranian authority report score of civilian casualty . Prime Minister Netanyahu have say that his operation will " continue for as many day as it take to remove the threat " . Supreme Leader Khamenei have say Israel " must expect severe punishment " . in such a crisis , our first priority be of course the welfare of british national . on Friday , we swiftly stand up crisis team in London and the region . yesterday , I announce that we now advise against all travel to Israel ; that be in addition to our long - stand travel advice not to go to Iran . today , I can update the House : we be ask all british national in Israel to register their presence with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , so that we can share important information on the situation and leave the country . I can announce today that we be far update our travel advice to signpost border crossing point , and we be send rapid deployment team to Egypt and Jordan to bolster our consular presence near the border with Israel . that presence have already be support british national on the ground . Israel and Iran have close their airspace until further notice , and our ability to provide support in Iran be therefore extremely limited . british national in the region should closely monitor our travel advice for further update . the situation remain fast - move . we expect more strike in the day to come . this be a moment of grave danger for the region . I want to be clear : the United Kingdom be not involve in the strike against Iran . this be military action conduct by Israel . it should come as no surprise that Israel consider the iranian nuclear programme an existential threat . Khamenei say in 2018 that Israel be a " cancerous tumour " that should be " remove and eradicate " . we have always support israeli security . that be why Britain have seek to prevent Iran obtain a nuclear weapon through extensive diplomacy . we agree with President Trump when he say that negotiation be necessary and must lead to a deal . that have long be the view of the so - call E3 — Britain , and France and Germany , with whom we have work so closely on this issue . it be the view of all the G7 , which have back the effort of President Trump ' s envoy , Steve Witkoff . for more than two decade , it have be the cross - party view in this House . Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton and Lord Hague of Richmond lead diplomatic effort on this issue , as do Baroness May of Maidenhead and the former right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . this Government have continue to pursue negotiation , join France and Germany in five round of talk with Iran this year alone . Ours be a hard - headed , realist assessment of how good to tackle this grave threat . fundamentally , no military action can put an end to Iran ' s nuclear capability . just last week , the International Atomic Energy Agency board of governor pass a non - compliance resolution against Iran , the first such iaea finding in 14 year . the director general ' s comprehensive report detail Iran ' s failure to declare nuclear material . Iran remain the only state without nuclear weapon accumulate uranium at such dangerously high level . its total enriched stockpile be now 40 time the limit in the joint comprehensive plan of action . its nuclear programme be part of a wide pattern of destabilising activity . the Government have take firm action in response . when Iran transfer ballistic missile for use in Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine , we impose extensive sanction , include against Iran Air , and we cancel our bilateral air service agreement . in the face of unacceptable Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps threat here in the UK — there have be some 20 foiled plot since 2022 — the Crown Prosecution Service have for the first time charge iranian national under the National Security Act 2023 , and we have place the iranian state , include the irgc , on the enhance tier of the new foreign influence registration scheme . a widen war would have grave and unpredictable consequence , include for our partner in Jordan and the Gulf : the horror of Gaza worsening , tension in Lebanon , Syria and Iraq rise , and the Houthi threat continue . that be why the Government ' s firm view be — as it be last October , at the time of the ballistic missile attack on Israel — that further escalation in the middle east be not in Britain ' s interest , or in the interest of Israel , Iran or the region . there be hundred of thousand of british national live in the region , and with Iran a major oil producer and with oil flow through the strait of Hormuz account for a fifth of total world oil consumption , escalate conflict pose real risk for the global economy . as missile rain down , Israel have a right to defend itself and its citizen , but our priority now be de - escalation . our message to both Israel and Iran be clear : step back , show restraint , and do not get pull ever deeply into a catastrophic conflict , the consequence of which no one can control . the Prime Minister chair Cobra to discuss the situation last Friday , and speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu , President Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman . the Prime Minister be now at the G7 summit in Canada , discuss with our close ally how to ease tension . the Government have deploy additional asset to the region , include jet for contingency support for UK force and , potentially , our regional ally concern about the escalate conflict . in the last 72 hour the Minister for the Middle East , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , and I have be work flat out try to carve out space for diplomacy . I have speak to israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar and iranian Foreign Minister Araghchi , underline Britain ' s focus on de - escalation . I have also meet the saudi Foreign Minister , Prince Faisal , and have call with United States Secretary of State Rubio , European Union High Representative Kallas , and my counterpart from France and Germany , the United Arab Emirates , Qatar , Oman , Jordan , Turkey and Iraq . those conversation be part of a collective drive to prevent a spiral conflict . this new crisis have arise as the appalling situation in Gaza continue . this weekend , hospital in Gaza report that over 50 people have be kill and more than 500 have be injure while try to access food . this government will not take our eye off the humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza . we will not stop call for aid restriction to be lift and for an immediate ceasefire , and we will not forget about the hostage . this morning I meet Yocheved Lifschitz and her family , whose courage and dignity in the face of Hamas ' s barbarism be a reminder of the plight of those still cruelly hold in Gaza . we will not stop strive to free the hostage and end the war . our vision remain unchanged : an end to Iran ' s nuclear programme and destabilising regional activity , Israel secure in its border and at peace with its neighbour , and a sovereign palestinian state , as part of a two - state solution . diplomacy be indispensable to each of those goal . Britain will keep press all side to choose a diplomatic path out of this crisis . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . these be deeply dangerous time , and as the Foreign Secretary have say , last week ' s IAEA report make it abundantly clear that Iran ' s nuclear programme have grow . its stockpile of uranium have pass 400 kg and be enrich to 60 % purity , which have be widely note as a level unprecedented for a state without nuclear weapon , and as be beyond the amount need for any civilian use . the IAEA director general have say that Iran ' s action and its failure to co - operate have lead to a significant reduction in the agency ' s ability to verify whether its nuclear programme be entirely peaceful . we share those concern , and the reason why Iran must never obtain nuclear weapon be clear . the iranian regime be a prolific state sponsor of terrorism , with a state intention of annihilate the world ' s only jewish state . give the concern , and the clear threat that Iran pose , not only to Israel , but to wide regional stability , Israel have the right to act in self - defence to degrade Iran ' s nuclear infrastructure . as well as pose a threat to Israel , Iran pose a direct threat to the United Kingdom and our interest . the Minister for the Middle East state in a write parliamentary answer in April that " Iran ' s nuclear programme have never be more advanced and threaten international peace and security . " early this month , the strategic defence review state that Iran ' s " escalate nuclear programme present a risk to international security and the global non - proliferation architecture . " with that in mind , can the Foreign Secretary tell we what discussion he have have with the iaea , and give we his assessment of how close Iran be to have nuclear weapon capability that could strike Israel and our interest in the region ? give the report from the iaea early this week , what direct bilateral discussion do Government Ministers have with their israeli counterpart on this matter prior to the action that be undertake last week ? the Foreign Secretary have speak about the conversation he have have since the strike commence on Friday , but what discussion take place in the day precede that ? can he update we on the discussion with our partner in the region before the strike on Friday , and since then ? for example , what discussion have he have with our friend in Bahrain in the light of the comprehensive security integration and prosperity agreement , and with Jordan in the light of the previous airspace violation by Iran ? be those discussion purely diplomatic , or do they cover defence and military planning ? last week , on 10 June , the Minister for the Middle East say during his statement that the Government be in contact with the israeli Government that day . as that be after the IAEA report be publish on 9 June , can the Foreign Secretary say whether the nuclear threat from Iran and the IAEA assessment be discuss , or be they discuss other matter ? we also know from recent statement by the Minister for the Middle East that relation between this Government and Israel have become strained since last July . what message do the Foreign Secretary have for all those who be concerned that constructive dialogue and diplomacy with Israel be not take place ? on british national in Israel and the wide region , what effort be under way to expeditiously help those who want to return to the UK ? although the Foreign Secretary can not give operational detail to the House , can he confirm whether contingency plan for the evacuation of british personnel and asset from Iran have be update recently ? at the G7 , will the Prime Minister have substantive bilateral discussion with President Trump on this matter ? Iran ' s strike on Israel be indiscriminately target civilian , and the whole House should condemn Iran for do this . the UK have previously support Israel , defend it from missile and drone attack . have the UK offer military intelligence and other form of assistance to our israeli ally to counter the attack from Iran ? the german Chancellor have offer that , and be provide assistance to Israel . have the UK make such an offer , too ? it be right that UK military capability increase in the region over the weekend . can the Foreign Secretary tell the House whether he be prepared to tackle any retaliation from Iran and its proxy , include the Houthis ? although Iran ' s nuclear capability have be degrade , we know that it be in regular contact with China and Russia on nuclear issue , and have be for some time . have the Foreign Secretary assess whether Russia and China may have be involve in support Iran ' s nuclear programme to get it to where it be today ? be he concerned that they will support Iran , with material and expertise , so that it can rebuild its capability follow Israel ' s action , and be he look at apply new sanction to constrain Iran ' s ability to rebuild , advance and accelerate its nuclear ambition ? I turn to the direct threat that Iran pose to the UK . the Foreign Secretary have rightly mention the plot foil , the recent arrest , and put Iran on the enhance tier of FIRS . can he give an assurance about the work take place across Government — include with the Home Office , the police , counter - terrorism operation and the intelligence service — to tackle any retaliation that Iran , the irgc and those act on its behalf might direct towards we ? have the threat risk level be reassess , and be extra support be provide to secure synagogue , school and other part of the jewish community in the UK ? finally , we all want to see peace and stability in the region , where Iran be responsible for so much of the bloodshed that be now take place , so can the Foreign Secretary update the House on the ongoing step be take to secure the return of the hostage from Hamas captivity , on the work to get more aid into Gaza , and on the effort to bring about a sustainable ceasefire ? I be very grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for her remark , for the cross - party support that I sense in they , and for her question , which I will certainly endeavour to answer . the shadow Foreign Secretary ask about our contact with the IAEA . I can confirm I speak to Director General Grossi just a few day ago — certainly before the action last week — and discuss his report . she ask what the late be on that . she will know that the assessment be that the enriched uranium stockpile be now stand at 8 , 413 kg , which be more than 40 time the limit in the joint comprehensive plan of action , with the total stockpile consider to be nine significant quantity of highly enriched uranium . the shadow Foreign Secretary ask what co - ordination we have do , give that information , and I want to reassure she that I have be in close touch and work in concert with my french and german colleague over this period — with the three of we co - ordinate our work across our political director , but also as Foreign Ministers — in our messaging to the iranian regime . I can also confirm to she that we will be speak to the iranian regime again in the come hour to raise those concern and heighten what I say about the need for diplomacy at this time . the shadow Foreign Secretary quite properly ask about our long - stand relationship with Bahrain , and I can confirm that the Minister for the Middle East have speak to Bahrain . she ask about our long - stand relationship with Jordan , and I can confirm that I have speak to Foreign Minister Safadi in the last few day . we continue to co - ordinate with our jordanian friend , and to offer they whatever support we can at this time . the shadow Foreign Secretary obviously ask about our ongoing relationship with Israel . she will know that our relationship with Israel remain a complex and intense one . as she would expect , I have speak to Foreign Minister Sa ' ar on numerous occasion , and of course I speak to he again on Saturday , when he be in a bunker and separate from his family ; I offer he condolence . as hon . member would expect , the United Kingdom and Israel co - ordinate and work together in such time . we have disagreement , of course — we have discuss that over the Dispatch Box — particularly about the humanitarian situation in Gaza , but we recognise that , as we speak , there be many Israelis in their bunker . there have be 21 casualty over this last period and over 500 people injure . there be a sense of trauma compound trauma in Israel , and I want to reassure the shadow Foreign Secretary that we recognise that . the Prime Minister be of course discuss these issue with President Trump at this time , and the G7 meeting be go on we as speak . I also want to reassure the shadow Foreign Secretary about our contact with hostage . I meet hostage family just today , and I undertake to raise that issue again in this place . they ask I to ensure that , with this crisis , we do not take our eye off the situation in Gaza . that be why I make it a part of my statement . the shadow Foreign Secretary quite rightly ask about state threat from the iranian regime and the irgc . I refer she to the work of Jon Hall , who have find gap in our legislative framework in relation to how we deal with these state threat . I be pleased about the arrest that have be make recently , but we will be come forward with the appropriate legislation to deal with the state threat from the irgc in the come month . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . it be completely understandable that Israel feel threaten by a bellicose neighbour with uranium mine and a nuclear programme , but the rest of the world be unanimous in say that the way to deal with Iran be through discussion , negotiation and a nuclear agreement . there once be such a deal , thank to the extraordinary effort of Baroness Cathy Ashton among other , but that deal be derail by President Trump , egg on by Israel . now , belatedly , even President Trump have come to the view that the solution have to be a nuclear agreement with Iran secure through discussion and diplomacy . yet in the middle of that , Israel have decide that the solution be a regional war . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Britain must remain firm , with the rest of the world , in urge both Israel and Iran to step back from a conflict ? military action can predict only one thing ; it will not stop the iranian nuclear programme , but it will ensure the death of innocent victim on both side . my right hon . friend be right to put on record our thank to former EU High Representative Baroness Ashton for all her work to get the JCPOA agreement . the previous Government and successive leader of the conservative party also work to secure that agreement . it be hugely important that we get back to diplomacy . it be right to say , though , that the assessment of the iaea be that there have be deception from the iranian regime . how do you account for have stockpile that be 40 time over what they should be , if you be stick to the agreement ? that be why we must come together , yes , call for restraint , but we do need diplomatic action . Iran can not have nuclear capability , full stop . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement , and to he , Ministers and official from the Department for their effort to support british citizen in the region . People across the UK have watch with horror as war have break out between Israel and Iran . as we consider the UK ' s response , let I begin with key principle on which I hope the House will agree . the state of Israel have a right to exist and to defend itself , in line with international law . we stand against Iran ' s state goal to wipe out the state of Israel , and its use of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps to support global terrorism and foster regional instability . will the Foreign Secretary go far to protect UK resident , include iranian and jewish community , from IRGC - sponsor terrorist action on our soil and finally proscribe the IRGC ? Iran ' s ambition to create a nuclear weapon be a grave risk to the UK ' s interest and Israel ' s survival . successive government have be right to seek to contain that risk through diplomatic mean . however , the Netanyahu Government ' s unilateral military action , which they take against the advice of ally and without forewarn , have severely undermine those effort . it be ill - judge , reckless and not the behaviour of a responsible ally . can the Foreign Secretary confirm that the Prime Minister will press , at today ' s G7 summit , for a return to negotiation , with the UK include alongside the US ? Iran have now retaliate with its own strike and may look to respond far , include by threaten the asset of other state in the region . can the Foreign Secretary confirm that the sole purpose of UK military deployment will be to protect our asset , personnel and citizen , and that he will not allow we to be draw into the conflict between Israel and Iran ? what specific step be the Foreign Secretary take to ensure that while the focus be on this crisis , we do not lose sight of the need to secure the unconditional release of the hostage hold by Hamas , and to maintain scrutiny of the extreme action of the Netanyahu Government towards Palestinians in Gaza , east Jerusalem and the west bank ? and , in order to protect the possibility of a two - state solution , will the UK Government hee the call of all 72 Liberal Democrat mps for the immediate recognition of Palestine ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his remark and the tone with which he make they , because in matter of war it be always important that this House can speak with one voice . on proscription , I refer he to the work of Jon Hall and remind he that we be deal with state threat . to be absolutely clear , no country in the world be deploy more state threat across the world than Iran . that be why it be important to look at that issue specifically . he have find gap in our architecture . we be look at those gap and we will come forward with our plan shortly . the hon . Gentleman rightly talk about the important work of negotiation and diplomacy , and what sit behind that . it be absolutely right that we continue to work with France and Germany . I reassure he that that work have continue and be continue alongside — a parallel track , if you like — the work of President Trump ' s envoy Steve Witkoff . we applaud that work and that effort to get to a negotiate diplomatic solution , but it be a solution that will require Iran give up its nuclear capability . it will involve Iran get serious about what those centrifuge under mountain be really for . we be very serious about that ; that be what we be insistent on , and why we say there would be a snapback and we would impose very severe sanction — that those sanction would hit Iran once again if we do not see compliance . the hon . Gentleman put on record his view on Gaza . we have have those exchange many time across the Chamber . I welcome the work of the Foreign Secretary and the diplomatic action that have take place so far . Israel ' s unprovoked attack on Iran have open yet another dangerous front and risk drag the entire region into a wide war , with devastating consequence for ordinary people across the middle east — people who have already bear decade of conflict and intervention . give that Israel ' s claim have be challenge even by US intelligence assessment , can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that no UK military support , whether direct or indirect , will be give without the clear and explicit consent of this House , and that the Government have learn the hard lesson of Iraq and Libya , and will not repeat they ? I say to my hon . friend categorically that the UK be not involve in Israel ' s strike . we do have an important regional role . we have UK asset in Cyprus , Bahrain and Qatar , and we have an important role in Operation Shader , where we be deal with terrible threat to we and our ally from Daesh and other . we have important relationship in the Gulf and the wide region . that be why the Defence Secretary have , as a precautionary step , send further military aid to the area . until the people of Iran rise up and overthrow the dreadful mullah ' regime , it be obviously true what the Foreign Secretary say when he say that no military action can put an end to Iran ' s nuclear ambition , because even if its capacity be entirely destroy , Iran could start rebuild it . have say that , though , it be true that it be possible to contain those ambition by knock back Iran ' s capacity repeatedly , until such time as it no long wish to acquire nuclear weapon . I advise the Foreign Secretary to think carefully about the question of diplomacy alone contain those ambition , because one day we might wake up and find that a successful nuclear test have be carry out by Iran . I be always prepared to take friendly advice from the right hon . Gentleman . this be a very serious threat . we know that the JCPOA have be breach . President Trump have be pretty clear in his expectation , as I have be pretty clear with the iranian Foreign Minister . I recognise that if Iran be to take the off - ramp , it must get serious in the come day about its obligation to the international community and about end that nuclear capability . as always , civilian be pay the heavy price : there be 1 , 195 casualty on 7 October , with at least 74 hostage since ; there have be 55 , 000 casualty in Gaza ; this weekend , 24 Israelis be kill by Iran , and 224 Iranians be kill by Israel . we need to de - escalate this conflict , and quickly . those 55 , 000 people in Gaza deserve a future . I understand that the conference to be co - chair by Saudi Arabia and France on the two - state solution have now be delay . what be we do to get that back on track , and how will we progress that solution ? I recognise that my hon . friend have long be a champion of these issue . he be right that the French , alongside the Saudi Arabians , take the decision to postpone the conference , which I think be the right decision . as my hon . friend will understand , many partner — particularly arab partner and partner in the Levant — want to be in their country at this time . there be a lot of diplomacy ; he will have hear the list of country I have be speak to . we must focus our effort both on ensure that ceasefire in Israel and Gaza and on deal with Iran ' s nuclear capability . rise — Order . I urge colleague to keep their question short and the Foreign Secretary to keep his answer short . do our close ally , the United States , agree with this position on the situation ? if not , what do we differ on ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the remark make by Secretary Rubio on the outbreak of this new war and to the statement make by Donald Trump , in which he clearly indicate an off - ramp for Iran if it get serious about diplomacy and accept the olive branch that he extend through Steve Witkoff . Ealing have long have a big iranian diaspora . in 1978 , when England do not qualify in the world cup and Iran do , a lot of my classmate be support the latter ; now , they be my adult constituent , and they have be catch up in all this . could my right hon . friend tell I what step he be take to ensure the safe passage of our constituent back home , include one of my constituent , who need to resume her cancer treatment and want urgently to come back to England ? let I just put on the record the huge admiration that I be sure many across this House have for what be formerly know as Persia and the great history of the iranian people — how remarkable they be , and how awful it be that they be suffer under this horrendous regime . unfortunately , as my hon . friend know , the airspace over Iran be close at the moment . we have advise against travel to Iran for many , many year because of our concern . however , our embassy staff will do all they can to support british national . I call the Father of the House . the Foreign Secretary know that many of we have be prepare to speak up again and again on behalf of suffer Palestinians and be a critical friend of Israel , but will he agree that on this occasion we must stand shoulder to shoulder with our israeli ally ? the fact be , Iran be a death cult , and death cult like the Nazis or Iran can not be appease simply through diplomacy . Iran be cock a snook at we — it be inch away from a nuclear bomb . I be sure he be go to make this absolutely clear , but will the Foreign Secretary therefore stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel and our american ally in proclaim the right of Israel to exist at all ? absolutely . thank you . a painful lesson of Israeli and , indeed , jewish history be that when someone say that they want to destroy they , we must believe they . the iranian regime have make its intention to destroy Israel clear for decade now . we will all be familiar with the term " never again " , which come out of the concentration camp of Europe . do the Secretary of State agree that this be one of those moment where we can say that never again be now ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have work on these issue for many year — long before he come to this place . we recognise the threat that Israel be face , and we also recognise the tremendous threat to not just Israel and the region if Iran be to get a nuclear weapon , and what it would mean for all of we who have work so hard against nuclear proliferation , as where Iran lead , other would come in its wake . we must stop that happen . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement today . although we clearly have difference with the Netanyahu regime , Israel be a close ally and friend of the United Kingdom . Iran be a terrorist - support state — Hezbollah , Hamas , the Houthis , Assad — that be destabilise the region , reject the IAEA and international proposal to prevent nuclear proliferation and limit uranium enrichment , and sponsor terrorist action on the street of Britain . do the Foreign Secretary not feel that Israel be now do the world ' s dirty work on behalf of we all ? the right hon . Gentleman bring his usual eloquence to these matter . I agree with he save for his initial remark : I would not call it the Israel regime ; it be a democracy , with all the up and down and fault of any democracy . of course , I recognise that this be an existential threat for Israel and its people , which be why it be important that we ask for restraint at this time , because we do not want to see regional escalation . that be why it be important that diplomacy prevail . the iranian regime threaten peace and security around the world : it destabilise the middle east through its terrorist proxy , Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis ; it support Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine ; and it be swear to wipe Israel off the face of the earth . it must never be allow to have a nuclear bomb . do the Foreign Secretary agree that that aim should be achieve through diplomacy , and that all the world ' s effort must be place on Tehran to back down , sign a deal and end this conflict ? yes , I do . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . the iranian regime be a malignant international force — who know how many british life have be lose to its sponsorship of international terrorism . the Iranians have explicitly state a threat towards our asset and our people in the middle east . how much confidence do the Foreign Secretary have in our ability to mitigate those threat ? I have huge confidence in our force protection measure . I remind the hon . Gentleman that we have important military and intelligence asset in the region and bilateral defence relationship with Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Oman , the UAE , Qatar , Bahrain , Kuwait , Iraq , Lebanon , Egypt and , of course , Israel . I be concerned about my constituent Natasha , Joshua and Jemma , who be stick in Israel after travel there for a wedding . they send I a desperate message say that they be worried about their safety and be face a daily cascade of missile . they have register their presence with the Foreign Office . I have hear what the Foreign Secretary have say today , but could I ask he to publicly reassure their family in my constituency that he be do all he can to bring british national home to safety ? for iranian dual national , british national who be in Iran — as I say , 224 casualty just over the last two day and 1 , 277 injury — this be of course a terrifying time , as people hide in their home . that be why we have embassy staff work around the clock , and we of course offer our full support , notwithstanding that the airspace be currently close . I have be contact by a significant number of constituent who be currently strand in Israel , unable to leave because of the lack of flight to the United Kingdom . this include a constituent with significant medical need . I urge the Foreign Secretary to far strengthen the Foreign Office ' s offer . I do welcome the advice it be now provide on route back to the UK , although I note that it have take some time for that to happen . what contingency plan be the Foreign Office and wide Government undertaking for repatriation should the situation deteriorate far and that be require , and be they register detail of UK national in Israel to that end ? I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we be ask all UK national in Israel to register their presence , so that we know that they be there and can update they in what be a very fast - move situation . I also reassure he that we have send a rapid force of diplomat to the border to facilitate exit . as he will understand , the airspace be close , so there be no way of leave by commercial flight , but there be route , particularly out of Jordan , and we will do all we can to facilitate that . the Chancellor confirm yesterday that UK military asset could potentially be use to help defend Israel . we be send military aircraft to the middle east , and the Prime Minister have not rule out they be use to help Israel . the Minister for the Armed Forces recently confirm in response to a write question that the UK be train Israel Defence Forces personnel on UK - base training course . do the Foreign Secretary acknowledge that through bolster Israel ' s military in this way we be actively demonstrate our support for one side in this conflict , and do he therefore accept that this undermine our call for a diplomatic solution and de - escalation ? it be important to state that the UK do not participate and be not participate in israeli strike , but we do have a proper role to play in regional security . my hon . friend would not expect I to comment on operational defence and intelligence matter , except to pray in aid the defence bilateral relationship that we have in the region . the reality be that there be a long history of diplomacy be use as a cover to reach the ultimate aim of what country want to do — for example Russia sign the intermediate - range nuclear force treaty while constantly build hundred of nuclear weapon , make that treaty worthless . I want to put it on the record that Israel have my absolute full support in the action that it be take ; it be do the world ' s dirty work . be the Foreign Secretary and his right hon . friend the Defence Secretary in the middle of work out how we ensure that the strait of Hormuz stay open for vital international trade ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for put square the economic interest that we have at this time and highlight why diplomacy be so important against that backdrop . the price of oil have jump to $ 78 a barrel , and some be predict it go up to $ 125 a barrel — that would certainly be the case if the strait of Hormuz be block . that be why this be so delicate . let we be under no doubt that this affect british people at the pump and that there would be massive inflationary growth if that be to happen . the death of Palestinians , Iranians and Israelis this weekend show why we must all push for peace and stop this from spiral out of control . do the Foreign Secretary support , as I do , a nuclear - free middle east ? if so , what step be the Government take to also address Israel ' s vast nuclear arsenal , which be think to include at least 90 nuclear bomb and which , let we not forget , one israeli Minister say should be use against the people of Gaza ? what be the Foreign Secretary do about Israel ' s refusal to sign up to the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and to co - operate with the International Atomic Energy Agency ? I have to say to the hon . member , the story of Israel ' s nuclear ability go back some long way , to the 1980 — I remember study this many year ago . we work with Israel , and we remain a country that do not want to see nuclear proliferation . we will do everything we can to ensure that other do not get nuclear capability in the region . let we be clear : there be no good guy in this conflict . the concept of pre - emptive self - defence do not exist in international law , and nor should it . Israel ' s decision unilaterally to retaliate first have make the region — indeed the world — a much more dangerous and unstable place . to what extent do the Foreign Secretary believe that the impunity that Israel have enjoy for previous act of aggression and war crime be a factor in Netanyahu ' s decision to retaliate first ? we have have a very serious debate in this House so far that recognise the serious threat that Iran ' s nuclear capability pose to the global community and the existential threat that the israeli people be face . I have be absolutely clear that diplomacy be the way . Donald Trump be urge a path back to diplomacy . the UK be of course not involve , but we have to be mindful about the many people in both Israel and Iran who be hide in their bunker , fear the loss of their life . I be sure the whole House be behind the diplomatic effort of the Prime Minister and the Government to avoid any further escalation of this conflict , and I thank my right hon . friend for the reassurance he have give about not take his eye off the horror that continue to unfold in Gaza . can he give a guarantee today that if there be to be an escalation that would drag the UK into any conflict , a vote in this House would be hold first , before our armed force be deploy ? as this conflict escalate , our message to both Israel and Iran be very clear : de - escalation and restraint . all our thought be of course with the british citizen catch up in this horrible and alarming exchange of ordnance . the Foreign Secretary say he be keep his eye on Gaza , but I be not quite sure what that mean . it be certainly the case that the eye of the world have be draw to the footage that have emerge as the missile have fly — footage of young child shoot and bleed out their life in the sand of Gaza . as he say , 50 people be hospitalise over the weekend or shoot dead while beg for food . just this morning , 38 people be kill while queue for food or attempt to obtain food from the new American - sponsor distribution system . what comfort should all the bereaved family in Gaza take from the fact that he be keep his eye on this situation ? today in my office I be with a hostage family . a wonderful woman who lose her husband be there with her daughter ask I to keep Gaza at the forefront of my mind and to raise it in the Chamber this afternoon . that be why there be an extensive part of my speech on it . I have speak to all partner in the region , and I will very shortly speak again to Prime Minister Mustafa . we be absolutely clear that aid need to get in , that hostage need to get out , and that we want to see a ceasefire . I will continue to talk and work particularly with our american partner and our partner in Qatar to bring about that ceasefire . I have spend nearly a year in this Chamber watch our country plead with the israeli Government to de - escalate in Gaza . they have not . strong word and desperate plea have not work . be now the time to recognise the state of Palestine , as we promise in our manifesto ? be now the time to extend last week ' s welcome sanction to other member of Netanyahu ' s regime , include the Prime Minister himself ? if not now , when ? I understand my hon . friend ' s strength of feeling on palestinian recognition . she will know we have always be clear that there be a role for recognition as part of a process , and we will continue to work with ally in the region and in Europe to bring about the process that will bring about recognition and the two state that we hold dear . rise — order . we have only another 15 minute to go , so long question be just take away time from other colleague . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and welcome in particular the measure about bolster our consular support . he have also make reference to our asset and the hundred of thousand of british citizen in the wide region . what reassurance can he give we that their wellbeing be be think about and that preparation be be make , should the conflict escalate far ? let I put on record my huge gratitude and respect for our diplomatic staff in Israel and Iran and across the region , and for their family and child who provide they with such support . to be absolutely clear , on Monday last week we have a tabletop exercise in Whitehall on Iran , which I chair . there be contingency plan . none of we could have envisage two crisis at the same time — this one and India , which the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , will talk about shortly — but our staff be stand ready . I know that my right hon . friend will be work tirelessly and use all his diplomatic skill and those of his office to resolve this new , immediate crisis , but as other have say , how will he balance that with get aid in , a permanent ceasefire , get hostage out and recognition ? balance it we must , because those be the issue that we be currently deal with . we remain determined to press for what we want to see in Gaza and to stand up for those we be hugely concerned about in the west bank — my hon . friend will have see the statement I make last week in relation to that — as well as be absolutely clear about Iran ' s intent and capability at this time and what we must do to stop that . I agree with the Foreign Secretary that a nuclear - armed Iran be not in Israel ' s national security interest or in the security interest of other country in the region — or indeed of this country , which have receive direct threat from the current iranian regime . some 8 , 000 UK national be live on RAF Akrotiri along with 7 , 500 cypriot and other also work on base — some civilian ; most in uniform . what reassurance can he give those on the base that they be safe from iranian threat ? the right hon . Member will know that , work with partner , we have capability that can ensure that our people be as safe as they need to be . he be right to reference RAF Akrotiri . the work of our colleague in Cyprus , Bahrain and Qatar be hugely important at this time . when the UN ' s nuclear watchdog say that Iran be close in on the ability to develop up to nine nuclear weapon , I worry . do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be in our national interest that Iran never acquire those nuclear weapon ? yes , 100 % . we all watch in horror as the conflict between Israel and Iran escalate . today , we have hear strong call in the House for the UK to be a prevail voice of restraint and diplomacy in this fragile and volatile time . while everyone in the Chamber recognise the brutal nature of the iranian regime , the focus must be on de - escalation , so I be concerned to hear about RAF jet be send to the middle east . will the Foreign Secretary make it clear that the UK will play no part in any aggression ? will he explicitly rule out any further military support for the israeli Government ? this be a precautionary measure . the Government would be irresponsible if we do not account for all possibility at this time . the failure to get transparent information from the United Nations Special Commission and the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission cause untold damage 22 year ago . what discussion have my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have with Director General Grossi at the International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure that there be real transparency and real information on which we can base any action ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that I speak to the director general at the beginning of last week , reassure he of our full support and thank he for all his work that be ensure a common understanding of what Iran be do and why we have to act . do the Foreign Secretary agree that just as Russia be run by an authoritarian regime that want to destroy its democratic neighbour Ukraine and have carry out attack on british soil , so Iran be run by an authoritarian regime that be out to destroy its democratic neighbour and have also carry out attack on british soil ? be it not the case , therefore , that for the same reason we stand with Ukraine , we need to stand with Israel now ? the right hon . Gentleman put it well . we should also mention what those in Iran be do to destabilise neighbouring country — Yemen , Syria , Lebanon and Iraq — with their proxy . we absolutely have to keep our guard up in relation to Iran . my constituent will be extremely concerned by the development in the region , so I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and the effort he be make to encourage de - escalation . will he assure I that this escalate conflict will not undermine the UK ' s effort to end the war in Gaza , free the hostage and lift all restriction to humanitarian aid in Palestine ? yes , I will do all that I can . it be report that the israeli Government plan to kill the leader of Iran over the weekend . as history show , attempt to collapse a regime with nothing to put in its place risk create a power vacuum and state collapse . they also risk create further wave of refugee and instability in the energy market . what assessment have the Foreign Secretary make of those report and the wide implication that such a strategy would have on the UK ? I remain hugely concerned about the appalling human right record of the iranian regime , but who run Iran must , quite properly , be a matter for the people of Iran . do my right hon . friend agree that it be right that the UK as part of the international community come together to urge all side to show restraint through diplomacy to prevent Iran acquire a nuclear weapon , and that it be also right that our focus be not divert from Israel ' s continued assault on Gaza and the rest of occupy Palestine and from secure the release of the hostage back to their family ? every colleague I have speak to over the last few day have emphasise diplomacy and de - escalation ; I reassure my hon . friend of that . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the State of Israel have a declare policy on its nuclear weapon of no first use and that there be no evidence that it have ever misuse or threaten to misuse its nuclear weapon in any irresponsible way whatsoever ? do he agree , moreover , that in international law there be the right of pre - emptive military action , and it be hard to imagine how that would not apply in this case , give Iran ' s determination to destroy the State of Israel ? the hon . Gentleman bring tremendous experience to these matter , but he will understand that it be right and appropriate that I leave that to the international lawyer . the nuclear ambition of a bloodthirsty terrorist - sponsor regime in Tehran pose a real threat to world peace , but do the Foreign Secretary agree that Israel ' s own conduct as an increasingly rogue state when it come to international law endanger not just israeli citizen but the palestinian citizen of Gaza , as we have see over the weekend , and make the case for a palestinian state more urgent , not less ? Israel have be raise its concern about Iran for year . it be an existential threat , and one that we recognise , which be why we have be work in concert with our partner in France and Germany on this issue for so long , and it have remain a cross - party issue . this be obviously a dangerous and perilous time , and we need to do everything we can to bring about a ceasefire between Israel and Iran . can the Foreign Secretary assure we that no british weapon or component be be use to bomb Iran , which could be use as a pretext for say that Britain be directly involve ? what assurance have he have from the Government of Israel that they will not use or even consider use in any way the nuclear weapon that they possess ? we have the most robust export licensing regime in the world , and I be proud of that . that be a matter that this House vote on just a few year ago under the last government , and the right hon . Gentleman will know that we make a decision to restrict arm sale to Israel that could be use in Gaza . I also refer he to the statement that I have make about Iran ' s nuclear intent , the work of the IAEA , the huge global concern and the UN resolution that the UK do so much to secure last Thursday . [ Official Report , 19 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for the Government ' s calm leadership on these ever - change and seriously concern matter . give our close maritime connection , can he update the House on his discussion with our Gulf ally and partner ? I can reassure my hon . friend that I have speak to partner in Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Oman , UAE , Qatar , Iraq , Lebanon and Israel , and be in touch , of course , with our friend in Egypt over this last period , and I will continue to do so at this time of intense diplomacy . we know that Iran have the ballistic missile to hit Europe , let alone Israel or other part of the middle east . last week , the IAEA report that Iran be within a whisker of produce atomic weapon . in the absence of diplomatic effort and the failure to introduce the snapback mechanism , Israel have a right to react to protect itself . will the Foreign Secretary now look at the diplomatic effort to introduce the snapback mechanism and to impose sanction on Iran to ensure that it can not ever obtain nuclear weapon ? yes , I will . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his commitment to de - escalation and I particularly thank my hon . friend the Minister for the middle east , who have work so hard over the last few day . could the Foreign Secretary say a little more about our commitment to our long - stand friend and ally in the region , particularly country such as Bahrain ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask that question , because this be a very tense time if you be in Jordan , the UAE , Saudi Arabia , Bahrain or Cyprus . for that reason , it be hugely important that the UK meet its obligation , and that be why the Defence Secretary make the decision he do to deploy certain asset into the region . of course we should uphold the right of every state to live in peace , but in what way be the UK military involve in this ? we have just hear that IDF soldier have be train on UK soil . be this the same idf that have be engage in atrocity , include the murder of UK aid worker in Gaza ? the UK of course provide military course for our ally , but we always emphasise , in all those course , the critical importance of international humanitarian law . it be important that we work with our ally to meet the amazing standard of our own armed service , and I be sure the hon . Gentleman would not want we to depart from that . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for make so clear what the UK Government ' s action be . however , it be very clear that the suffering in Palestine will continue , if not accelerate , give the situation pertain in the middle east , so what action can be take to try to ensure that aid get into that beleaguered area ? also , what effort can be make to ensure that the recognition of Palestine be keep firmly on the diplomatic table ? my hon . friend will know that recognition have certainly be an issue that many colleague around the world have be speak about just in the last few week . I reassure she that I be discuss the aid issue just today with a hostage family who be worried , of course , about the aid available to those who remain under the ground in Gaza . Israel be a democracy , a pluralistic society and an ally . in contrast , the unhappy and ignoble regime in Tehran be a theocracy that want to wipe Israel from the map , that foment terrorism around the globe and that suppress its own people to the extent that even dance be a crime . be not the good use of british military asset in the eastern Mediterranean to try to do something to stop the rain of hypersonic missile and drone on civilian area in Israel ? it be hugely important that we do all we can . I believe the good way forward be diplomatic , because attempt to do this militarily , I be afraid , can not be achieve , and I think that be widely understand . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , his reassurance that Gaza will not be forget , and for have be really quick to come out and ask for de - escalation and a negotiate settlement . nobody want to see a nuclear Iran , not least the people of Iran , who be pay for this investment by the iranian regime , but Netanyahu justify the bombing raid by say that Iran be close to have a bomb and that it could be year or just month away . be Netanyahu correct ? I call to mind the work of the iaea , and refer my hon . friend to the resolution of the UN Security Council just last week , all of which confirm Iran ' s intent and its deception . [ Official Report , 19 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) last week , this House be unite in support the long - overdue recognition of a palestinian state , and we urge the Minister to advocate for that at the United Nations conference in Saudi . that have now go up in smoke . we believe that the US - Iran nuclear peace negotiation be come close to fruition , so do the Minister share my concern that Netanyahu ' s Government may be seek to create further instability in the region , to block progression for peace and the recognition of the palestinian state , and to distract from the genocide in Gaza ? I do not believe that that sit behind the action that we be see at this time . I do believe that the way forward be de - escalation and diplomacy . a full - scale war between Israel and Iran be clearly in no one ' s interest , but neither be a nuclear - armed Iran , so what be the Government ' s realistic proposal to return to diplomatic solution as soon as possible and to get Iran to give up its nuclear weapon programme ? how realistic be it that Iran will engage in such an effort ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that , along with my colleague in France and Germany , I expect to be engage with Iran on this very issue in the come hour . the Foreign Secretary have say , and just repeat , that no military threat can prevent the Iranians from acquire nuclear weapon , but surely that be not correct . give the danger to we all from Iran , which the Foreign Secretary acknowledge in his statement , and its continue attempt to increase its ability to enrich uranium , will he very clearly agree with I that Israel be right to strike the nuclear site ? the phrase that I have use about no military endeavour be able to achieve this without diplomacy have be use by the US and by the Israelis themselves . while I deplore the alleged israeli war crime in Gaza , that should not cloud our view of the iranian regime . as a british diplomat cover Syria , I see how the iranian regime be directly complicit in the torture and murder of hundred of thousand of syrian civilian . I be a british soldier in Iraq in 2020 , and the British Lance Corporal Brodie Gillon be kill by the Iranians a few month before I arrive . there have be too many catastrophic british foreign policy decision in the middle east this century , so I commend the Foreign Secretary for his commitment to a realist and hard - headed approach . do he agree that the first question for any policy choice should be : where do it all end ? I be grateful that the hon . Gentleman , though new to this House , bring so much experience . I agree with his sentiment . my constituent Greg contact I this afternoon . he be worried about his 24 - year - old daughter who be in Tel Aviv on her own . what reassurance can the Foreign Secretary give to my constituent that we will repatriate british citizen as quickly as possible ? I would first urge the hon . member ' s constituent to register his daughter ' s presence , to recognise that we be surge staff to the region and that the way out at the moment be through Jordan , and to reach out to staff . the hon . Member can reach out on the hotline if that be what his constituent so wish . may I take the Foreign Secretary back and ask that he clarify the nature of the israeli military personnel training on british soil and whether those involve be participate in operation in Gaza ? if so , how do that align with the UK ' s international legal obligation give that Israel face proceeding stand accuse of genocide at the International Court of Justice , give that its leadership have arrest warrant issue against it at the International Criminal Court , and give that this Government have also move to sanction senior israeli official ? as I say before , this be an academic course , non - combat . we have extremely high standard in this country , and it be important that we share they — although in the instance that he raise , this be few than ten people . give the UK ' s long - stand friendship with Israel , what assessment have the Foreign Secretary make of the increase risk to our military personnel in the country in the wide region ? we be at the high level of force protection at this time because of the ongoing conflict and the danger that exist , and it be why we emphasise de - escalation and restraint . a despotic middle eastern dictatorship , a rogue state , a terrorist state perilously close to achieve a weapon of mass destruction so serious that it could disrupt the entire region — hon . and right hon . member , as well as the public listen at home , may hear echo of 2003 in that description of current event . with talk of regime change again in the air , what will the Foreign Secretary do to personally talk back the israeli authority in Jerusalem , because what they be do at the moment strike I as provide the iranian regime with the good possible propaganda tool they could have ? the hon . member be right to emphasise in his word a degree of caution . he will have hear what I say in the House this afternoon , which form the bedrock of the diplomacy that our official be exercise in Israel , in Iran and across the wide region . I support the Foreign Secretary in his call for de - escalation . in April last year , the RAF participate in the shooting down of drone that Iran fire at Israel . will the Foreign Secretary comment on why the UK act to defend Israel from drone attack at that time , but do not do so at the weekend ? each military situation be different . there be a particular context at that time of ballistic missile come in and a particular request . we have the asset that could support , and we obviously make those assessment , as the hon . Gentleman would expect , with our regional ally depend on the circumstance and the context . I concur with the Foreign Secretary ' s view that this can only be resolve through diplomacy and that that be the only way we will get a resolution . I know he be a learn friend — a fellow colleague at the Bar . he will understand international law . do he agree that the Caroline principle that would allow Israel to conduct that strike be not engaged ? do he not smell a rat with the timing of what be happen ? at this Dispatch Box , I speak as Foreign Secretary , not as a lapsed member of the Bar who qualify in 1995 . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . the role of the irgc in life in Iran over the year have be human right abuse , religious freedom abuse and gender abuse , with act of global extremism and terrorism often have their root and support in Iran . the war in Israel be a prime example of that . anyone who pretend that Iran , with its nuclear potential , be in any way an innocent bystander be be deliberately dishonest . will the Foreign Secretary commit again to work with ally , such as the US , to minimise bloodshed and ensure that Israel be able to remain safe and free from all attack ? yes , I will . the hon . Gentleman be right to bring to mind the human right record in Iran . I remind the House that just three year ago , Iran arrest 20 , 000 people , execute many , and many die , all because a young woman — Mahsa Amini — do not cover herself up . she die in prison . that be the regime we be talk about . Air India Plane Crash before we come to the statement , may I from the Chair pass on my condolence to the family of Ketan Shah , one of my constituent in Shipton Bellinger , who be tragically kill in the Air India crash ? Ketan be a value member of the local community , where he run the village store , and the whole community be devastate by his loss . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to update the House on our response to Thursday ' s devastate Air India plane crash . I know the whole House join I and you in offer heartfelt condolence to all those who have lose love one in this tragedy . the image of those board the flight be heartbreaking . family across both country , include in my constituency and yours , have be shock and horrified . they be mourn , and we mourn with they . official casualty figure be not yet confirm . however , our understanding be that of the 242 passenger and crew , 53 be british national , and just one have survive . also , many people in the medical college that the plane hit die or be badly injure . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have pass on our deep sympathy to Prime Minister Modi . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary also speak to his friend Minister Jaishankar on the day of the crash . the Foreign Office immediately stand up crisis team in London , Delhi and Ahmedabad . our high commissioner in India travel to Ahmedabad and remain on the ground throughout the weekend , visit the local hospital and the crash site . we have increase consular assistance and be in contact with all the family of british national who have ask for our help . in Ahmedabad , we have set up a UK reception centre to help british national in person . a team of four investigator from the Air Accidents Investigation Branch arrive on Friday to support work on the ground . that same morning , we also deploy five people from the rapid deployment team to strengthen the support that we be offer in person . we also support the provision of a British Red Cross psychological support officer , who be now in India help family to cope with the tragic emotional impact . we deploy specialist disaster victim identification expert on the ground ; they be liaise with those involve in the indian authority - lead identification process . in the UK , police family liaison officer be deploy over the weekend to support family base here during an incredibly difficult time . we be of course in regular close contact with Air India about the support package that it be offer , which include fund flight and full repatriation cost to bring love one home . I understand how frustrating it be for family who have not yet be able to lay their love one to rest , and I recognise the pain and frustration that this be cause . the indian authority be work around the clock , with UK support , on this . unfortunately , these process take time , but it be important that they be do properly to avoid cause more pain for family . at the same time , we be of course also focus on understand what happen . the Indian Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau have accept the UK ' s offer of help , and a team of british inspector be now on site . our high commissioner also meet Gujarat Home Minister Sanghavi yesterday to offer our support . the Government continue to work tirelessly with our indian partner to establish what happen and support all those who be grieve . with an India diaspora about 2 million - strong here in Britain , and with a particularly prominent Gujarati community , we feel the pain of this tragedy together . it remind we not only of the deep personal tie between our people , but of the strength of our partnership with India — a partnership build on trust , share value and mutual support in time of crisis . just over a week ago , the Foreign Secretary be in Delhi celebrate the conclusion of trade talk , discuss the expansion of our strategic partnership and meet so many people dedicate to strengthen the tie between we . in the face of such profound loss , the UK stand shoulder to shoulder with India , not only in grief but in our share resolve to ensure that those we have lose be never forget . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the tragic death of 242 man , woman and child on Air India flight 171 from Ahmedabad to Gatwick on Thursday , and the report of at least 29 fatality on the ground , be beyond distressing and upsetting . it be still difficult to comprehend the scale of the tragedy . our thought and prayer continue to be with everyone affect , particularly the family and relative of lose one . all our thought be with those who be in hospital have suffer injury , and with Vishwash Kumar Ramesh , whose survival of the crash be an absolute miracle , though he sadly lose his brother . many of those who die — 52 — be british , and many family in the UK will have lose love one who be indian national , too . over the past few day , we have start to hear about the life of those who die , and the grief that their family be go through . there be the loss of Akeel Nanabawa , his wife Hannaa Vorajee and their four - year - old daughter Sara ; of Javed and Mariam Syed , and their two child , from London ; of Hardik Avaiya and Vibhooti Patel , a couple from Leicester who have go to India to celebrate their engagement ; of Fiongal and Jamie Greenlaw - Meek ; and of the former Chief Minister of Gujarat , Vijay Rupani . their passing , and that of everyone who die , will be greatly feel . our condolence go to all of they . the pain that they be all experience be clearly unimaginable . follow the tragedy , we have see community come together in mandir , gurdwara and other place of worship to pray and seek comfort in these difficult time . this evening , a vigil be be organise by the indian high commissioner , at which the community will come together to reflect , mourn and pray . I thank the high commissioner ' s team for their help and kindness in their consular support . I pay tribute to all those offer assistance to community across the country who have be affect . the support show at troop the colour on Saturday will have be greatly appreciate . I put on the record our thank to the emergency service in India for their response . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have set up a reception centre at the Ummed hotel in Ahmedabad , but concern have be raise this afternoon that there be not enough of a british presence on the ground at the hospital and elsewhere where family will identify their love one . the Minister may have see the statement issue early by three family refer to an " inadequate and painfully slow government reaction " . they also say that there be " no UK leadership . . . no medical team , no crisis professional station at the hospital " . they be ask the Government to " immediately step up its presence and response on the ground in Ahmedabad . " the Minister have say that this be incredibly delicate and difficult , and we all understand that , but what be his response to that statement ? will change be make to provide the assistance that be need , because we understand that the circumstance that the local hospital and mortuary be operate in be deeply harrowing and difficult ? will he guarantee that consular support will be in place for as long as be necessary ? the pain that family be go through be unimaginable , and identify and return the body of their love one to enable funeral to take place will take some time . forensic be be use to help identify body , and family have be provide sample to help with that awful process . will the Minister give an update on any support that the UK be provide to help with that process , and with the forensic work that must take place ? do he know at this stage how many of the body have be identify ? can he give assurance that work be take place across Government , with local authority and school in affected community in the UK , to ensure that counselling and trauma support service be available , especially for child who have lose close family member ? the affected family deserve to know what happen to the plane . thought be turn to the investigation . it be early day yet , but can the Minister give detail of conversation that have take place with counterpart in India , as well as with Boeing , on the investigation ? we welcome the involvement of four official from our Air Accidents Investigation Branch . will the Minister give assurance that they will have the support and resource that they need to assist the indian authority ? on the cause of the crash , will the Minister give an assurance that the UK Government will work with India to get answer and provide update to the family ? last Thursday be a dark , sad and traumatic day for India , the UK and all those affect , wherever they be in the world . I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I say that we stand with they in seek answer ; in work to give they the support that they need ; and in mourn the sad death of their love one . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of her question . she rightly point to the scale of this ; it be the single large loss of british life in an aviation accident since 9 / 11 , and one of the single large loss of british national life overseas in one incident in a long time . ten year ago this month , practically , I be part of the diplomatic service on the ground in Sousse after a terrible tragedy . I know well the agony for family seek to pick up the piece after an incident like this . the right hon . Lady ask an important question about the mortuary process , which can be particularly traumatic in another country . I can confirm that any british national who want consular assistance in go through that process will have it from my official . she rightly raise question that have be ask by some of the family about the location of our reception centre and our presence at the hospital . since become aware of those report , I have send official to the hospital . we be not aware at the moment of british national congregate there . I have ask official to review the signage and general arrangement to ensure that people know where our reception centre be . it be at Ummed hotel , which be close to the airport , because we though that would be the good place to receive british national , rather than the hospital , where , tragically , there be no living british national . we keep these question under review . as I know from my experience , in tragedy like this , it be difficult to get right the first time the assistance that british national need . we will learn lesson with each step . I speak to some of the family who make those point this afternoon . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . will the Minister please convey the gratitude of this House to the Foreign Office staff and the police officer who have have such difficult work to do on behalf of we all ? public service can be very hard sometimes , but we be very grateful . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for those remark . the family liaison officer and the consular staff on the ground be try to stand with british national during some of their dark moment , and their work be very hard , exactly as she say . we will stay with those affect by this situation for as long as it take , as the shadow Foreign Secretary ask we to . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I associate myself with his remark and those of other colleague about our collective grief and shock at so many life be lose in this appalling crash , include the life of 52 UK citizen . I express my condolence to the family of all those who lose their life in the tragedy . it will be utterly devastating for they , and it be vital that the Government ensure that they be fully support . what reassurance can the Minister provide that each of the family be receive the support that they need , and be be keep update with any and all new development relate to the crash ? report suggest that investigator have now recover the cockpit voice recorder from the flight , which should provide crucial new insight into why the plane go down . british and american team be on the ground to support India ' s Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau in the inquiry into the cause of the crash , and I thank those team for their work . what step be the Department take to support they and other investigator to ensure that no stone be leave unturned in the search for answer ? a british citizen , Vishwash Kumar Ramesh , be the only survivor of the crash . I speak for the whole House in express our relief that he be alive , but I also recognise what a traumatic experience this will have be for he , include have to come to term with the loss of his brother , Ajay , who be also on the flight . can the Minister outline what support the Government be provide to Mr Ramesh and his family to enable his physical recovery and access to wide support ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I be sure she will understand why I will decline to comment in too much detail on Mr Ramesh ' s case in the House . we can all only imagine the agony that he and other affect by the incident will be feel . I will not comment too much on the ongoing investigation . it will be a complex operation , but I know that our Air Accidents Investigation Branch be among the good in the world and will do everything it can . it be fully support by our high commissioner in India and by the Foreign Office to do that vital work . as the hon . Lady say , the black box have be retrieve and further insight will no doubt be glean over time . I be deeply shocked and sadden by the tragic Air India crash in Gujarat . my thought be with the victim , their family and all those affect in India and in the UK . Air India be an important operator for many of my constituent , especially for those in the indian diaspora , and about 100 Air India flight arrive in Birmingham airport every month . what reassurance can the Minister give my constituent that the UK Government be support effort to determine the cause of the Air India crash with our indian counterpart ? as I say , british investigator be now in India work with the indian authority . we be also in direct contact with Air India . around 30 % of my constituent emanate from Gujarat originally . on Saturday , we come together in one of the Hindu temple with the interfaith council , and people of all religion and none express their condolence . at that temple , 20 people have lose relative . last night , we attend another vigil at a temple where four relative of people who work there have lose their life . can the Minister give we an update on one issue ? for the 53 UK national who sadly lose their life , we have be able to communicate to their family that they have unfortunately die , but there be 169 indian national who be almost certainly due to visit family in the UK — family that extend across the country . have the fcdo be able to advise those family of the loss of those life , so that instead of be by the telephone wait in hope that their relative be not on the plane , they have a certain outcome ? I be happy to talk to the hon . member about the particular of the case that he be refer to . we will , of course , do everything we can to try to minimise uncertainty . all hon . member will have the victim in their thought and prayer . I thank the firefighter , the first responder and the emergency service worker who help at the crash . on Saturday , a vigil be hold at the Mahatma Gandhi statue at Manchester cathedral . I be one of the speaker , along with my hon . friend the Members for Manchester Rusholme ( Afzal Khan ) and for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) . we have prayer from a local Hindu priest , an imam , a member of the Sikh community and the dean of the cathedral . the Minister mention the british high commissioner in India , her Excellency Lindy Cameron , who be do an important job . can the Minister assure I that the high commissioner ' s team in Delhi , and that of the deputy high commissioner in Ahmedabad , will have all the support and resource that they need to make sure that the victim and the family be support ? I have speak to our high commissioner and the team on the ground this afternoon to ensure that we have adequate resource in place , include in the place where british national and their family might be congregate , to ensure that we can provide the good possible support to family affect . unfortunately , several of my resident have be directly affect by Thursday ' s air crash . I place on record my gratitude to local community leader like Councillor Vishal Patel for offer support and organise event , such as the vigil I attend on Friday , to allow those affect to come together and grieve . Councillor Patel raise a tragic case with I , in which the wife of one of my constituent pass away , leave behind he and his two child . he be currently rely on his mother to help with childcare support around his shift work , but she do not have permanent residence in the UK . what will happen to those who have lose love one who they or their family rely on for care , who will now need to look to other member of their extended family for support ? I be happy to talk to any hon . member about particular case of people affect by the incident . this be an incredibly tragic occurrence , and my heartfelt condolence go to the bereaved . consider the involvement of the UK Air Accidents Investigation Branch , can the Minister give further information about the UK ' s role in the ongoing investigation ? how will he ensure that the question of family and relative be answer and that there be transparency and accountability in the process ? the UK AAIB will be support the work of the indian authority , and we will do everything we can to ensure that family be keep fully apprised of the conduct of the investigation . will the Minister join I in express heartfelt condolence to my constituent , who have tragically lose three beloved member of their family — Adam Taju , Hasina Taju and Altaf Patel ? I sincerely thank the Minister for his prompt support and action for the affected family , and I place on record my appreciation for the outstanding effort of the member of the Foreign Office in assist all the family in need through their darkest time . I thank the hon . member for his kind word about I and the official , and I join he in send my truly heartfelt condolence to his constituent for the loss of life . I extend my heartfelt sympathy to all those , include the many british and indian family , who have lose love one . the UK and India be closely connect , and many people in both our country be grieve after this dreadful crash . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Foreign Office staff work in the UK and India to support the family and love one of all those affect . I understand that around 120 victim have be formally identify use dna sample . what assistance be the UK provide to the indian authority to ensure that the remain victim can be formally identify as quickly as possible ? regrettably , in incident of this scale , identification tend to take some time . through family liaison officer in the UK and consular staff , we be try to support british national and those affect in India and here in the UK to enable the contribution of DNA . if any right hon . or hon . Member want to ensure that their constituent get support through that process in India or here in the UK , they should please not hesitate to be in touch . when news of the tragedy come last week , it serve as a real unifier in my great city of Leicester — it unify we in shock , absolute disbelief and mourning . I take this opportunity to remember the name of those who lose their life who be associate with my great city : Hardik Avaiya , Vibhooti Patel , Pooja Patel , Harshit Patel , Ajay Kumar Ramesh and Faizan Rafik . we also have the one sole survivor , Vishwash Kumar Ramesh . when I visit the family , it be great to see so much support from their neighbour , of all faith and no faith . indeed , during our dark time we see the good of my city . a couple of family mention some difficulty in access information . will the Minister look urgently at communication with the family , so that they can get support at this very difficult time ? my message to they , as I be sure the whole House will agree be this : you be not alone . I agree with the hon . gentleman — they be not alone . in relation to any question about the experience of our consular support , I invite right hon . and hon . member to ensure that I be aware , both in relation to the tragic incident in India , but also in Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and Iran . as the Minister for consular affair , let I say that it be important that we understand what the experience be like for people on ground . in relation to this incident , as I tell the shadow Foreign Secretary , I speak with team this afternoon to ensure that UK support be as clearly signpost as possible on the ground . I thank the Minister for his statement and for the support that he and his team have give my constituent and my team over the weekend . my city of Gloucester be in mourn for the loss of Akeel Nanabawa , Hannaa Vorajee and four - year - old Sara Nanabawa . I be sure the whole House will join we in send our thought and prayer to their family and friend , and to the wide Barton and Tredworth community at this time . understandably , the indian authority and hospital staff be overwhelm by the scale of this tragedy , and I would be grateful if the Minister could outline what more we can do to support our constituent who have travel to India to identify body and lie they to rest . he mention the support that have be give by Air India . understandably , a number of my constituent who travel to India at great personal expense over the weekend have real reservation about travel with Air India at this time . without want to sound alarmist , what support or financial assistance be be give to those who may have have to travel at great personal expense at very short notice ? I speak to some of my hon . friend ' s constituent early in the day , and they be full of gratitude for his work on behalf of his city and constituency over the weekend . I also pay tribute to that . as I say early , I be happy to talk to any Member about the particular circumstance of their constituent , and see what can be do to help they . I thank the Minister , his Department and all his civil servant for their sterling effort on behalf of the family . at this time we all think about how we can help ; we help through our Minister , our government , and our official , so I thank they . on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party and myself , may I convey my thought and prayer for all those family who lose love one in the Air India crash — for the pain , the void they have and the ache in their heart ? our heart ache for they . the air accident be a tragedy , and the loss of life be incredibly difficult to understand . all our focus be with family within this United Kingdom , and globally , who mourn today . but although they mourn today , there will come a day when they want to understand how this could have happen . will the Minister confirm how we can be assure that current global airline safety measure be adequate and robust ? what role do this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have in the safety of air travel ? the UK have a proud record of play its full part in global aviation standard . as I say , our Air Accidents Investigation Branch will be assist the investigation into this incident fully , and take full note of its finding . I will not be alone in have shed tear over the heartbreaking photograph of the Royal Derby hospital doctor , Dr Prateek Joshi , his wife Dr Komi Vyas , and their three beautiful child , Miraya , Nakul and Pradyut , in the aeroplane moment before take - off and then the crash . I be with their friend and hospital colleague at Derby ' s Hindu temple on Saturday , and it make real and vivid the tragedy of all the life lose in this crash . can the Minister tell we anything more about how the UK Government be support the indian Government in their safety investigation , and those friend and family who be devastate by this tragedy ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work in Derby on this — those photo be heartbreaking , particularly the one she mention that so many in this House will have see . we be try to support indian investigation in two area : in relation to the Air Accidents Investigation Branch and through our disaster victim identification service , which be also on the ground . this be a truly horrific tragedy , and we be do all we can to try to understand how it happen , and to support those affect as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister for his statement , and all the first responder who be on the scene . I thank the british involvement in help the indian authority . when this be all over , and attention have shift away , will our official be there until our resident be satisfied that we have do all that we can for the indian authority ? I confirm that we will provide british family with all the support they require during this horrific incident . this be truly a terrible tragedy . as an elect representative in Greenwich where we have a large Gujarat community , over 40 year , both as a councillor and an MP , I have get to know many people from the community , particularly those who be member of the South East Gujarati Association . like all of we , they will be grieve today after this terrible tragedy . in his statement the Minister mention that family liaison officer have be appoint . what resource do they have ? they must be able to get information to family promptly , and people may need further assistance , such as with travel . do they have access to those sort of resource ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . family liaison officer , often know as flo , support family in the UK and be part of UK policing . they be always able to talk to my official — the consular official who take care of british national overseas — and we always try to ensure that the relationship between consular official and flo work as smoothly as possible , so that family be provide with the full support of the UK . if family in the UK or overseas have any question about how that operate , I be happy to talk to my colleague about that . on behalf of my constituent , may I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your move eulogy to Mr Shah who live in Southbourne in my constituency for more than a decade ? many of my constituent remember Mr Shah and mourn his passing . they send their love to his family . Bournemouth and India have a deep bond ; Britain and India have a deep bond . what be the Minister do to ensure that everybody affect by this tragedy be get the support they need ? will he join I in commend the community leader of the Bournemouth , Poole and Christchurch Indian Community for all that they be do at this difficult moment ? I thank one of my hon . friend from Bournemouth — the other MP for Bournemouth be unable to speak as she be a parliamentary private Secretary , but I know they have both be very engaged with the tragedy that be be feel across the city . we be do everything we can to support people both in India and here in the UK , and we will continue to do so until people have navigate the full depth of this tragedy . I be particularly conscious of those go through the difficult but necessarily time - consume process of identify remain . the Minister will be aware that as we speak , the Indian High Commission in London be hold a commemoration service for those who have be lose . he also know that my constituency of Brent West , which include Wembley , be the epicentre for the Gujarati community — more than 30 % of my constituent be originally from Gujarat . I thank he for the way in which his official have engage and the help that they have be able to offer , but some of my constituent have have problem . the saiyed family — mother , father and two adult child — be travel together . three of the body have be identify , but one body have not yet be identify . I understand that the dna testing have now be randomise , but I urge the Minister to try to do everything he can to ensure that the four body can have the necessary funeral arrangement celebrate together , rather than wait long . he be absolutely right to say that it be important that the testing process be do correctly , to avoid further problem down the line , but family be in deep distress at the moment and it be important that we send every possible help to get the dna testing do as quickly as possible . I understand the force and the emotion behind my hon . friend ' s question . I have speak to family about the obvious agony of the process of identification . I will look into the circumstance that he describe . he mention the Indian High Commission , to whom I pass on my thank for its hard work , particularly in rapidly facilitate visa for family member to be able to go out to see their love one . my constituency have a significant indian community , and there have be collective grief and dismay at this tragic event . I be sure that member of the community will welcome the Minister ' s condolence , as do I , for the family affect , both here in the UK and in India . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his confirmation of support on the ground for the affected family , but will he keep the consulate ' s resource under review , both in capacity and location of support , as event unfold ? I welcome the confirmation that british crash investigator be on site to provide support , but will the Minister confirm that he be in close dialogue with the Department for Transport to ensure all UK resource and expertise in this area be available and can be deploy , to get the family the answer that they deserve so much ? I confirm to my hon . friend that we will , of course , keep our consular response under review , as event develop . I can also confirm that there remain close co - ordination between the Foreign Office and the Department for Transport . the Foreign Secretary , the Secretary of State for Transport and I be all in the first ministerial Cobra in response to the incident , and I know the Transport Secretary continue to have a close engagement in these issue . this Air India crash be a devastating tragedy and my thought be with all those who be affect . many of my constituent in West Bromwich have family in India and they be deeply shake and sadden by what have happen . I be grateful to the Minister for set out all the work that the British Government have do , in association with the Indian Government , to offer support at this terrible time . you have mention our aviation expert who be on - hand , but can you say a bit more — order . I believe you mean the Minister . will the Minister say a bit more about our ongoing support for the Indian Government and how we can give my constituent in West Bromwich confidence when they go to visit their family in India ? I have set out some of the detail around our support for the Indian Government . the High Commissioner remain in regular dialogue with the indian authority and meet Prime Minister Modi to discuss the case in recent day . we will continue to do all that we can so that your constituent — [ interruption . ] apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be obviously contagious . we will continue to do all that we can so that my hon . friend ' s constituent , and the constituent of all right hon . and hon . member across the House , can feel confident . this be a terrible tragedy and I join the Minister in pay my respect to those who have lose their life . I send my condolence to friend and family member who have have their life rip apart by this terrible tragedy . will the Minister give further detail on what the UK Government will be do , with the Indian Government , to understand how this tragedy happen , and what we can do to prevent something as awful as this happen again ? the Air Accidents Investigation Branch will be play its full role , and we will consider the finding of the Indian and the british and american - support investigation and take any action that be require . I associate myself with the comment make by the Minister , the shadow Foreign Secretary and many other from across the House in express condolence . my thought have be with the family , friend and the people who have lose love one in the Air India crash . I represent a lot of people in Leeds South West and Morley , include a group of wonderful family who organise under the name Morley Indians . they have send I here today with a couple of question for the Minister , so on behalf of one of their representative may I ask what support be the UK Government provide for the family in the UK who have lose love one ? in addition , what support can the Government provide to the wide community , follow the impact of this horrific crash ? for family who have choose to remain in the UK , a family liaison officer have be appoint by their relevant police force and should have be in contact over the weekend . I invite any right hon . or hon . member who think there be gap in that to get in touch with I , but hopefully every affected family will have now hear either from the Foreign Office or their relevant police force , if they be in the UK . we will continue to keep all of that support under review . business of the house ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , ( i ) the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme ( Policy Framework and Assurance Board ) not later than two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply ; and ( ii ) the business determine by the Backbench Business Committee may be proceed with for up to two hour , or until 10 . 00pm , whichever be the late , and shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; those proceeding may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme I inform the House that the Speaker have select the follow amendment as list on the order paper : ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) . I beg to move , that this House note the report of the House of Commons Commission entitle Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme : Policy Framework and ICGS Assurance Board ( HC 579 ) , far note the Decisions of the Commission on 12 May , and agree : ( 1 ) that the ICGS Policy Framework in respect of bullying , harassment and sexual misconduct annex to the Commission report shall have effect from 14 July 2025 . ( 2 ) there shall be a body call the ICGS Assurance Board . ( 3 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall conduct assurance of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme on behalf of the parliamentary community , in accordance with term of reference publish by the House of Commons Commission on 17 December 2024 . ( 4 ) the term of reference of the Assurance Board may be vary by agreement between the House of Commons Commission and the House of Lords Commission . ( 5 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall consist of : ( a ) the Clerk Assistant , ( b ) the Clerk Assistant of the House of Lords , ( c ) the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , ( d ) the Chair of the Independent Expert Panel , ( e ) a Member of the House of Commons who be a member of the House of Commons Commission , appoint by the Commission , ( f ) a Member of the House of Lords who be a member of the House of Lords Commission , ( g ) a representative of the House of Lords Conduct Committee , and ( h ) a representative of the human resource department from each House Administration . ( 6 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall have authority to approve icgs Procedures , in accordance with the icgs Policy Framework , provide that : ( a ) nothing in the icgs Procedures document may amend or override provision in the Policy Framework ; ( b ) procedure can not create new obligation for individual ’ conduct . ( 7 ) the policy and procedure relate to bullying and harassment and sexual misconduct endorse by the House on 19 July 2018 and amend on 17 July 2019 , 28 April 2021 and 26 April 2022 shall cease to have effect on 14 July 2025 , save that they shall continue to apply to any complaint receive on or before 13 July 2025 . with this we shall discuss the follow : amendment ( a ) , in paragraph ( 1 ) , after " 2025 " insert " , subject to the removal of paragraph 7 . 1 , 9 . 4 , 10 . 3 , 13 . 2 , 14 . 3 , 17 . 7 , 17 . 8 and 18 . 7 " Amendment ( b ) , in paragraph ( 5 ) ( e ) , leave out — " a Member of the House of Commons who be a member of the House of Commons Commission , appoint by the Commission " and insert — " two member of the House of Commons , elect by the House of Commons " Amendment ( c ) , in paragraph 5 ( f ) , leave out — " a Member of the House of Lords who be a member of the House of Lords Commission " and insert — " two member of the House of Lords " Amendment ( d ) , leave out paragraph 5 ( h ) . amendment ( e ) , leave out paragraph ( 6 ) and paragraph 1 . 4 of the icgs Policy Framework . the establishment of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , know as the icgs — the first scheme of its kind in any legislature in the world — be an important step forward in tackle inappropriate behaviour in Parliament . its establishment be agree in 2018 with cross - party support . the icgs provide a dedicated , independent mechanism for handle complaint of bullying , harassment or sexual misconduct in both Houses . it deal with those complaint assiduously and anonymously , with a professional , well - resource team , and have a range of appropriate sanction and mechanism at its disposal . the icgs work alongside the independent expert panel , which determine appeal and sanction for case that have be bring against member of Parliament . these arrangement ensure complaint be investigate fairly , objectively and to a high standard . the icgs have be an important driver in establish high standard and improve culture in Parliament and we should all support it . I thank the icgs for its continued work , and in particular the contribution of its director , Thea Walton , who will be step down from her role later this year . last year , Parliament publish the finding of an independent review into the effectiveness of the icgs , conduct by Paul Kernaghan . the review broadly praise the icgs ' s performance , with Kernaghan be clear the icgs be make a difference to standard in Parliament , and have demonstrate its ability to hold people to account for unacceptable behaviour . he say that the icgs be something " the parliamentary community should take pride in " . the review find that the scheme have continue to take positive step to improve timeliness and the quality of its service . of course there be always more work to be do . it should rightly have the ambition to be the gold standard in workplace grievance scheme . in total , the review make 26 recommendation . of those , eight have already be deliver , and a further eight will be take forward should the motion before the House be agree . work on the remain recommendation be under way . these be recommendation from an independent review of the independent grievance scheme of this House : they really should not be contentious . Kernaghan ' s first recommendation be to consolidate the various policy and procedure document into one policy document and one procedure document , and that the exist icgs assurance group should become a permanent icgs assurance board . I be look through the document and the opposition ' s amendment . two of the amendment that they have put forward talk about the size of the ICGS assurance board and , in particular , add two member . be it the feeling , from the evaluation of the independent process , that the board be actually the right size and that we do not need those amendment ? I certainly do not think that we need the amendment . the assurance board be make up of representative of both Houses , the hr department and other appropriate people , which be as it should be . it also include a Member of this House , who I think will be contribute shortly and who be also a member of the House of Commons Commission . the make - up of the assurance board as propose be right . I make a declaration of interest : Max , in my parliamentary office , be one of many trade union rep across this House . in fact , he be so very good at what he do that 77 hon . and right hon . member sign an early - day motion in the last Parliament recognise his service . what consideration have be give to representation of the union of House staff and mps ' staff on the ICGS assurance board , either as permanent member or in how the board engage with the union in this place ? I put on record my thank to Max , Ken and many other who have do great work represent those who work in this House , whether it be for an MP or as House staff . the role that the trade union play be absolutely important , and their role in this process should be recognise . both the House staff and Members ' staff trade union be represent on the ICGS stakeholder group , and the icgs have an obligation to consult with that stakeholder group before any proposal be bring to the assurance board . I put on record that I hope the ICGS continue to do that very closely , because the trade union provide an invaluable voice in the operation of the icgs , and that should continue . the assurance board will scrutinise the day - to - day performance of the icgs and ensure that investigation be timely and of a high quality . it will also have responsibility for update the icgs procedure document , but only that document . I thank the Leader of the House for bring forward this motion . she be absolutely right that no one should have any doubt about the reason for it , and no one should have any opposition to it . I understand that there will not be any opposition to it — that be what I be tell . will she outline very quickly the process for those who have a grievance or a complaint , whether for member or staff , so that staff will know all their right ? it be important that we advertise this service — the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to do that . any member of staff , any Member of Parliament or anybody work in the broad parliamentary community who have be subject to bullying , harassment or sexual misconduct should get in touch . there be a helpline , and there be well - advertise way of get in touch with the icgs , not just to make a complaint but to get advice about whether a complaint be in scope and can be take forward . as I say early , the icgs have a range of mean : it do not always involve a full investigation with sanction . the icgs might often come to some resolution , and there be other mean through which any such behaviour could be resolve . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point , because it be important . to be absolutely clear with the House , the policy framework of the icgs remain a matter for this House . that include the definition , parameter , obligation and key right and permission of the scheme as well as its scope . I have lay in the Library and attach to the motion on the Order Paper a letter from the icgs that set out the difference between policy and procedure , because I know that be of concern to people . colleague may want an update on a couple of other recommendation from the Kernaghan review that be not a matter for the motion today . recommendation 3 , which ask that political party work more closely with the icgs when deal with complaint through a memorandum of understanding , be be take forward by the Modernisation Committee with the co - operation of the political party , and I thank all those concerned for that . the House have also take forward recommendation on behaviour training . as of the end of March 2025 , 639 out of 650 new and return mp have attend behaviour training . take together , the recommendation from the Kernaghan review will improve icgs performance and accountability , provide great clarity about where complaint should go and how they should be deal with , and speed up necessary change to its day - to - day procedure . in total , they will improve behaviour and culture in this place . this be an important moment for the House to come together , I hope , on a cross - party basis , to show that we stand behind the icgs , what it stand for and the work it do , and to show that we will improve and take forward the independent recommendation to keep improve its work . I be disappointed that opposition Front Benchers have break with year of consensus on this matter to oppose some of the change propose , which come from an independent reviewer . I see that the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be not in his place , despite his amendment be select . his amendment , which be support by member on the Conservative Front Bench , undermine the integrity of the Kernaghan review recommendation , and I can not support they . I hope the shadow Leader of the House will take the opportunity to distance himself from those amendment . the reputation of Parliament be low , with poor trust in politic and politician , and it be for all of we to turn the page on that era . the safety of those who work on the estate be paramount . I be clear , as I be sure everybody be clear , that there be no place for bullying , harassment or sexual harassment in Parliament . those who perpetrate it should be accountable and sanction where necessary . I commend these recommendation to the House and call on all member from all party to support these improvement . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I will speak to the motion and specifically to the amendment in my name on the Order Paper . as the Leader of the House have say , successive Administrations , in collaboration with the House , have support across this Chamber the development of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme . it be initiate in 2017 under the then Conservative Government , and it have always be develop on a collaborative and cross - party basis . in that context , it be surprising , disappointing and a pity that the Government should table a motion on the business of the House when it have not be agree in that collaborative and cross - party way . indeed , they be whip their own member ; that be highly unusual for a motion on the business of the House . our position have always be that these matter should be work through together , through the usual channel and with other senior body of the House in a spirit of consensus . in that spirit , I will not press the amendment in my name to a vote . I be very concerned that the amendment table by Opposition Front Benchers would fly in the face of the body ' s independence , so I be glad to hear that the right hon . Gentleman will not be push it to a vote . will he confirm whether his party support an independent process and the icgs ? if his party be in government , would it make change to the scheme or even scrap it ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for the question . of course , it be a conservative body in the first instance , develop on a cross - party basis . as far as I be aware , there be no desire in my party to make it anything other than a continuously independent body to suppress and prevent the abuse that occur before it be bring into being — abuse with which we be all familiar . in many way , the icgs have not be without its problem — it be in the nature of the House ' s deliberation and the secrecy and privacy associate with these thing that we do not always hear about those problem — but broadly speak , it have be successful . that mean , however , that in the context of the point of conflict between my side of the House and those on the Leader of the House ' s side , there be no problem that the motion as draft seek to address and cure . let I explain in more detail . the motion frame the issue as supposedly not one of policy , but of procedure . as it set out , the assurance board have many member . it be not simply compose of parliamentarian ; it include the Clerk Assistants of both Houses , Members of both Houses — but on a nominated basis , rather than elect — the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , a lay member of the House of Lords Conduct Committee , and member of the human resource team of both Houses . the proposal before we be that this body should be able to set rule for member of this House without the House itself have any say in the matter , so this be not about the nature of the board ; it be about the question of what say the House have over rule that be be set for everyone affect by the icgs , but for member of this House in particular . it be nonsense to suggest that lay a motion before the House , as we have suggest , would be difficult or need to involve any delay . our position be extremely simple : there should be a motion before the House to approve or disapprove any decision take by the assurance board . such motion can be lay before the House in a very short period of time — literally in a day or two , and perhaps even overnight in some circumstance . there can be no proper suggestion of a delay in the implementation of decision make by the assurance board , and therefore no reason — at least in my judgment and that of my colleague — why this should not be a matter for the House to decide . it be extremely surprising that the right hon . Gentleman be take this position , give that his party be generally associate with deregulation and remove bureaucracy . do he not agree that the proposal he be describe would create additional bureaucracy around an independent organisation ? no , that be not true . the motion of this House be not traditionally regard as a form of bureaucracy ; in fact , in many way they cut through bureaucracy , because they allow we to get to a democratically ratify decision very quickly and transparently . the trouble come when decision be make without that transparency , simplicity and speed of action , which be what we be oppose to . as I have say , the present proposal draw a distinction between policy and procedure , and would mandate the assurance board to act on its own behalf in matter of procedure . of course , the board contain only one Member of the House of Commons , and as I have say , that person be nominate rather than elect by the House . in other word , the assurance board potentially have wide - range and coercive power , which be to be exercise almost entirely by people who be outside any direct framework of democratic accountability . it potentially have the power to overturn decision that be ultimately make by an MP ' s constituent at the ballot box . the House have rightly be concerned about the exercise of such power for at least 400 year . the motion , too , draw a distinction between policy and procedure . of course , contrary to the suggestion that have be make , procedure include important substantive matter . indeed , Paul Kernaghan ' s review set out an illustrative table of potential change , which include change whether somebody may be accompany to an icgs interview . as I have point out , this be an issue of power as well as procedure ; the assurance board have the ability to empower people who be under review by the icgs to bring another person along to an interview , or to prevent they from do so . in turn , this reflect a tacit or explicit policy decision about what may be fair or just under the circumstance . it be not simply a matter of procedure . Mr Kernaghan ' s review also include , as an illustration of what he call procedure , change the timing of when the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards be notify of a misconduct complaint — whether that be before or after an initial assessment . of course , that too reflect a tacit policy judgment about what a just process would be . such tacit policy judgment show that there be no hard and fast distinction to be draw between policy and procedure , and underline that these be not matter for official — for unelected people — but for member of this House act through this House . I remind the House that the icgs set rule not merely for member of Parliament , but for more than 15 , 000 passholder , and even — although this be slightly unclear , and in my judgment have not properly be resolve — for tourist and visitor to the Palace of Westminster . it be not accountable to any other body . today ' s decision to reject amendment ( e ) — of course , we be not move that amendment , so that will be the decision — will be a one - off decision to give up power of scrutiny , and it will be hard , if not impossible , to reverse that , once those power be yield . this be happen at a time when more and more decision be be take by people who be not accountable in any direct , genuinely democratic way , through the emergence of what people have often think of as a kind of bureaucratic or legal sludge . that be absolutely deplorable . all that we in the conservative party have say be that any decision of this type that be take by people who be not member of Parliament should be place before this House , in line with its constitutional status and the Bill of Rights 1689 . it have always be our procedure in this House not to recognise a superior , let alone a bureaucratic or non - democratically elect superior , and we should not do so on this occasion . I should note for the record that I be proud to serve on the Modernisation Committee , and in my previous role before come to this place , I give evidence to Paul Kernaghan . I be listen to the right hon . Gentleman carefully , and I be struggle slightly to understand his argument . I point to what might be the late version of the constitution of the conservative party — I can not be sure about that , because unlike the Labour party , the conservative party do not regularly publish its constitution online . I be look at a version from 2021 . the section deal with ethic , disciplinary investigation and so on say that the govern committee of the conservative party have empower an independent ethic and integrity committee to determine matter of conduct , and whether rule have be break . the committee be make up of a host of independent kc and the chair of the 1922 committee . this go to the point that he be make , because paragraph 82 . 1 say that " the Committee will be the master of its own procedure " . if that principle be good enough for the Conservative party , why should it not apply to we in this House ? I do not know in what capacity the hon . Gentleman give evidence to Paul Kernaghan , but that be an extraordinarily misconceive idea . this House be a democratically elect Chamber , and it have be the constitutional doctrine of the United Kingdom for hundred of year that it should have no superior . that be what we be contest now . what may or may not be the case in some other body that the hon . Gentleman have drag into this conversation , in a way that rather breach the spirit of this cross - party discussion , be completely irrelevant . I be surprised that you have allow that point to be make , Madam Deputy Speaker , since it be so obviously irrelevant to these discussion . that body be not the legislative body democratically elect by the people of this country . I declare an interest : I be a member of the House of Commons Commission , which have nominate I as a member of the independent complaint and grievance scheme advisory group , so I be a member of the group that we be discuss . when I be first elect , I attend the training on the icgs , along with my colleague from the 2024 parliamentary intake , and I be deeply sober by some of the appalling behaviour I hear about — example of why the icgs have to be bring in . I be very grateful that the icgs be in place , and I know that my staff and other member of the parliamentary community be also grateful for this independent process through which people can raise their complaint and grievance . I fundamentally disagree with the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , in his characterisation of the scheme , and I disagree with the way that the power of the advisory group have be characterise . at no point do the advisory group have a chance to make any particular judgment about individual . as the Leader of the House set out , the advisory board govern the procedure that establish how the scheme should operate , through its independent investigator . without an independent complaint and grievance scheme for this parliamentary community , we would be far poor . in this day and age , when trust and confidence in politician be at an all - time low , it be vital that we be open to scrutiny , and that we attract all possible talent into the parliamentary community . that will happen only if people feel safe to work here . we must have confidence that an independent scheme be available to everybody who choose to work here , so that they can safely do their job . I hope that everybody support this motion — I understand that there will not be a division — and I welcome this opportunity to celebrate the positive work do in this area by the Leader of the House . it be regrettable that all the work she have put into try to encourage cross - party support for this measure be not recognise by the shadow Leader of the House . his characterisation of that discussion be not representative of what actually take place , but I look forward to there be more support for the motion from other member of this House , perhaps from other party , who recognise how vital this independent scheme be for the whole parliamentary community . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be pleased to support this motion , which , as the Leader of the House say , have come about as a result of the Kernaghan review , an independent review of the icgs publish just last year . the review ' s recommendation include the creation of an icgs policy framework , and the formalisation of the ICGS assurance group into an assurance board with responsibility for the creation of and future change to an icgs process document . the motion be design to implement those recommendation , and I be happy to support it . the public be understandably feed up with what many perceive as accept poor behaviour from those elect to represent they . the icgs be design to help restore trust by ensure that poor behaviour be deal with swiftly and appropriately , but that can not happen if mp be constantly mark their own homework . if it be think that there be attempt to manipulate the system , or to wriggle out of tight spot for political gain , we will have no chance of regain the trust that have be erode , particularly over recent year . that be why I be so disappointed to see the amendment that have be table . after so many year of trust be erode , we need to find a way to win that trust back , and that be what this scheme do . let I go through the amendment to explain what I mean . amendment ( a ) would , among other thing , remove the right to make collective complaint , make it hard for complainant with the same issue to support each other in come forward . it would also prevent the icgs from accept a person ' s complaint if it be substantially the same as a complaint they have previously withdraw . that would worry I , as I do not find it hard to imagine a scenario in which a complainant be — how shall I put this ? — encourage to withdraw their complaint , perhaps follow promise of improved behaviour , but then feel the need , and have the courage , to raise the issue again . that amendment would prevent they from be able to come forward again . amendment ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) appear to be a rather blatant attempt to stack the membership of the assurance board , so that it can be politically manipulated . amendment ( e ) trash the recommendation from the Kernaghan review that the ICGS assurance board should be able to approve icgs procedure . the Kernaghan review clearly recommend that the assurance board should be able to create and make change to icgs procedure . that be to speed up a process that the Kernaghan review find to be unduly cumbersome and impact by political consideration . I be just try to get my head around the amendment . be the hon . member suggest that we avoid these amendment , because we want to ensure that there can not be political influence over the decision be make , such that , as she say , those who have commit these terrible act somehow get away with it ? indeed . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , because I completely agree . unfortunately , what he suggest be what some of these amendment be design to do , and that be why I can not support they . they be an attack on , and a blatant attempt to manipulate , the system , and that be totally wrong . in short , I fully support this motion and do not support any of the amendment . I encourage member from all part of the House to do the same . I intend to speak briefly , and I draw the House ' s attention to my role as chair of the parliamentary group for the GMB , the union that represent the large number of worker on the parliamentary estate , and to my declaration to that effect in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Parliament be , on the whole , a more professional , safe and more sober place to work than it once be . such progress , however , be no excuse for complacency . inappropriate and predatory behaviour can occur anywhere , but the risk factor be high here , and I pay tribute to all the workplace representative who have work quietly down the year to raise standard and challenge poor practice in this place . I welcome the step outline in the motion to clarify and strengthen the icgs , and I also wish to comment briefly on the Opposition amendment . the shadow Leader of the House say that amendment ( e ) will not be move , but we do not hear about amendment ( a ) , which be in the name of a Back - Bench MP , but be co - sign by the shadow deputy Chief Whip , the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) . if I have understand the amendment correctly , it would strike out the scope for collective complaint , and it would block the investigation of complaint if a police investigation have not result in a conviction , even though the standard of proof be different for the two thing . the amendment would also , as far as I can tell , prevent the reinvestigation of a complaint if a respondent succeed in persuade or pressurise a complainant into withdraw . that point be make powerfully by the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . amendment ( a ) could provide a cover for abuse , be it agree . that be plain and apparent , and it be a matter of deep regret that it appear to have some degree of sponsorship from the Opposition . while I do not wish to depart today from the recommendation of the Kernaghan report , I will raise some matter on workforce representation . we have already hear that the workforce representative in this place will continue to be consult , and that be welcome . can the Leader of the House confirm whether workforce representative will be able to attend meeting of the assurance board in an observer capacity ? it would also be good to hear whether there will be scope for direct representation of those workforce voice on the assurance board . that would improve its functioning . I know that she recently meet GMB rep to discuss those same concern , and I hope that she can comment far tonight . finally , some 7 , 000 people provide support to parliamentarian . they all deserve to work in a modern environment , secure in the knowledge that there be a robust and independent process provide accountability and redress if they be mistreat . the politicisation of those process in recent year be deeply regrettable , and I hope that cross - party support for they can be swiftly restore . I call the Chair of the Standards Committee . may I begin by welcome the Government ' s motion to put the assurance board on a proper footing , and to introduce a clear policy framework under which the icgs will operate ? as some colleague have say , the icgs be an extremely important parliamentary workplace scheme , cover all member of the parliamentary community — more than 10 , 000 people . unusually for a body set up only six year ago — by a former Leader of the House , Andrea Leadsom — it have undergo a number of review , which have highlight concern about the operation of the scheme and make recommendation to this House . the most recent be the Kernaghan review , from which today ' s Government motion have its genesis . the motion will set up in permanent form an assurance board to oversee the working of the icgs . I welcome the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) on to that new assurance board on a permanent footing . why be we here today ? the icgs have experience a number of concern process issue since it be set up , particularly in respect of the quality of its investigation and the excessive time delay in the processing of those investigation . if complainant and respondent be to trust the icgs , it be of paramount importance for the assurance board to ensure that the issue encounter with the investigatory process be resolve , and that complainant and respondent be subject to a process with a credible and , importantly , timely outcome . as I be sure all member agree , it be not acceptable to complainant and respondent that , in what be an internal workplace process , they must sometimes wait for year for an outcome on , for instance , bully . the Committee on Standards be specifically prohibit from involvement in individual icgs case . preserve the independence of those investigation be vital to the success of the investigation , and to the confidence of those who seek the aid of the icgs and those who be investigate under the scheme . however , the icgs be part of a wide standard landscape within the House , and the Committee on Standards have a useful voice in highlight how the scheme be operate and in comment on policy . in the standard landscape report produce shortly before the last general election , our predecessor — some of whom remain member of the Committee , particularly the lay member — note that the Committee have not have time to consider fully the recommendation of the Kernaghan review . in paragraph 175 of that report , the previous Standards Committee recommend to the House that the new Committee , which I now chair , should continue to consider the analysis and recommendation contain in the review . as Chair of the Committee , I can inform the House that the Committee have since have discussion about the work of the icgs with its outgoing director , Thea Walton — I thank she for the work that she have do — and that it be due to discuss that work far next week . owe to the pressure of other work — notably the complex inquiry that we have undertake at the request of the Modernisation Committee and the Leader of the House into outside interest and employment — we have not have time to consider fully all Mr Kernaghan ' s recommendation and their implementation , but we will continue to make that a focus of our work during the current Parliament . member may have note that the propose new assurance board would contain a member of the House of Lords Conduct Committee , but not a Member of the Standards Committee in the Commons . Dame Laura Cox , in her 2018 report on the bullying and harassment of Commons staff , recommend that process to determine such complaint should be entirely independent of member of Parliament , and that be the course that the House adopt . the House of Lords be responsible for its own process , and its Committee retain a great role than this House ' s Committee in these matter . let I emphasise that it be absolutely proper for mp not to be involve in determine complaint , but there may be scope for involvement in the policy framework surround complaint . I have not seek to amend the motion today — as I have say , I welcome it — but give that involvement in policy do not equate to interference in complaint , and nor should it , it may be worth revisit in future whether , since the Lords Committee will be represent , this House ' s Committee on Standards ought to be represent as well . it might also be worth revisit whether a valuable member voice — and by " member " I mean not just a Member of Parliament but a lay member of the Committee — beyond the House of Commons Commission might also be useful . I do not expect the Leader of the House to respond to that suggestion today , because it be proper for the Committee on Standards to consider this matter fully , as recommend and as approve by the House . once it have have the opportunity to do so , it may well revert with further recommendation on how today ' s motion might be enhance as we go forward together , on a cross - party basis , seek to ensure that we have the good parliamentary workplace scheme , with the appropriate parliamentary stakeholder include in this welcome assurance board . let I end by acknowledge what some other member have say about trade union . only a few hour ago , Unite ' s parliamentary staff branch email all mps about this very point . I think that the point that I have make about the Committee on Standards sit well with the parliamentary staff branch ' s own view on ensure that all relevant parliamentary stakeholder be include in this welcome assurance board . I thank all member for participate in the debate , and for the spirit in which they have do so . I particularly thank the Chair of the Standards Committee , the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , for his work and that of his Committee in this space and , indeed , many other space . they do a huge service to the House in uphold standard and ensure that we be operate under the very good behaviour requirement at all time . I also join he in thank Andrea Leadsom — who I have a great deal of respect for — for her initial work in set up the icgs . the Chair of the Committee be right to say that there have be concern , especially when the scheme be first set up , about timeliness , about some of the process and about the quality of some of that work . as the Kernaghan review find , that be improve significantly and step have be take , but I want to make it clear that the motion will accelerate progress in ensure that process be as effective as they can be . I expect the Standards Committee to take a keen interest in the work involve the icgs as part of its remit , and I look forward to any further recommendation that it wish to make about the make - up of the assurance board or , indeed , any other aspect of its operation . I want to make it clear — and the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , refer to this — that the policy of the icgs remain a matter for the House . that include the definition of what might be deem bullying , harassment or sexual misconduct ; the parameter and scope of the scheme at all time ; the obligation on people who make complaint and on , for instance , witness ; the right to make collective complaint ; the right to receive draft assessment report ; and the right of decision - make body to reject report . those all remain matter of policy and not procedure , in respect of which the House will retain a right . my right hon . friend have say that scope be an issue that the Modernisation Committee be look at , and that it form part of policy rather than procedure . can she give an indication of when the outcome of that consideration might be come forward , so that the Kernaghan recommendation can be take forward far ? the issue of scope be cover in the Kernaghan review . Kernaghan make it clear that the scope of the icgs in when a case involve any two or more member of the parliamentary community . perhaps there have be time when that scope have be unintentionally narrow operationally . what the Modernisation Committee be consider be recommendation 3 , which relate to a memorandum of understanding between the political party and the icgs in relation to how they deal with complaint . I think we can all agree that when complaint be within the scope of the icgs , they should go to the icgs and not to political party , which , unfortunately , have show themselves not able to deal with such complaint in the same way . that be not just a matter for the Modernisation Committee ; it be a matter for the political party as well , and we be make progress in that regard — particularly with the Labour party , which be keen to engage with the issue . I will not detain colleague much long , but I will pick up on a few point that have be raise . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) for her brilliant contribution , and for all the work that she be do on the House of Commons Commission and the assurance board . as ever , I thank my colleague on the commission and the Modernisation Committee , the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , who make an excellent contribution on why the amendment be gutte amendment , which we should not support . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , I put on record my thank to the trade union rep who operate in this House . they should absolutely be involve , through the stakeholder group , in a formal consultation about any change to procedure . after this debate , I will approach the icgs to ask it to consider allow the trade union to attend meeting of the assurance board in the same capacity in which they come to the House of Commons Commission to make representation , because that will be important . finally , I want to take on the argument make by the shadow Leader of the House . first , these be not my proposal — they be not government proposal . this be a motion on the business of the House in my name , because that be how such motion get to the Floor of the House . these proposal be put forward by an independent review — to which all political party and all member of this House have the opportunity to contribute — of an independent grievance scheme , which have rightly improve behaviour and standard . they be not my proposal ; they be independent proposal . this body will not be set the rule — that be just wrong . it will be look at procedure , and at how they can be streamline and make more effective . as I have just say , the rule — that is , the policy — will continue to be set by this House . it be about time we move on from the age - old argument that member of this House have a right to behave however they want and the only time they be accountable for that be at the ballot box five year later . that be the argument that the shadow Leader of the House be propose — I be sorry , but we put that argument to bed a long time ago , as I think the Chair of the Committee on Standards agree . if colleague , cross - party , support the icgs and the improvement in behaviour and culture that it have bring to this House , and if they want to see that body become more effective and have more timely and quality investigation , they really need to support today ' s motion . as other have say , we all have a duty to ensure that this be a workplace where people can work safely and securely , free from bullying , harassment and bad behaviour . amendment ( a ) to ( e ) have be select for separate decision . however , I understand that no Member wish to move they , so I will move straight to the main question . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note the report of the House of Commons Commission entitle Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme : Policy Framework and ICGS Assurance Board ( HC 579 ) , far note the Decisions of the Commission on 12 May , and agree : ( 1 ) that the ICGS Policy Framework in respect of bullying , harassment and sexual misconduct annex to the Commission report shall have effect from 14 July 2025 . ( 2 ) there shall be a body call the ICGS Assurance Board . ( 3 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall conduct assurance of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme on behalf of the parliamentary community , in accordance with term of reference publish by the House of Commons Commission on 17 December 2024 . ( 4 ) the term of reference of the Assurance Board may be vary by agreement between the House of Commons Commission and the House of Lords Commission . ( 5 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall consist of : ( a ) the Clerk Assistant , ( b ) the Clerk Assistant of the House of Lords , ( c ) the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , ( d ) the Chair of the Independent Expert Panel , ( e ) a Member of the House of Commons who be a member of the House of Commons Commission , appoint by the Commission , ( f ) a Member of the House of Lords who be a member of the House of Lords Commission , ( g ) a representative of the House of Lords Conduct Committee , and ( h ) a representative of the human resource department from each House Administration . ( 6 ) the ICGS Assurance Board shall have authority to approve icgs Procedures , in accordance with the icgs Policy Framework , provide that : ( a ) nothing in the icgs Procedures document may amend or override provision in the Policy Framework ; ( b ) procedure can not create new obligation for individual ’ conduct . ( 7 ) the policy and procedure relate to bullying and harassment and sexual misconduct endorse by the House on 19 July 2018 and amend on 17 July 2019 , 28 April 2021 and 26 April 2022 shall cease to have effect on 14 July 2025 , save that they shall continue to apply to any complaint receive on or before 13 July 2025 . Backbench Business - Windrush Day 2025backbench business I beg to move , that this House have consider Windrush Day 2025 . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this important debate . on 22 June 1948 , HMT Empire Windrush arrive in Tilbury dock from the Caribbean , carry 1 , 027 passenger and two stowaway . More than half the passenger come from Jamaica , and there be many from Trinidad , Bermuda and British Guiana . there be other nationality too , include polish passenger who have be displace during the second world war . the passenger be respond to advertisement in local newspaper , include the Gleaner in Jamaica , for job in the UK , with an opportunity to travel on the Windrush for £ 28 . as we mark this 77th anniversary , I want to acknowledge and pay my respect to the Windrush pioneer who have pass away in the last year . they include Windrush passenger Alford Gardner , who I have the privilege of meeting at the 70th anniversary reception in Speaker ' s House , and " Big John " Richards . they also include the Windrush pioneer Nadia Cattouse , Eddie Grizzle , Enid Jackson , Claudette Williams , Gerlin Bean , Lord Herman Ouseley — the former chief executive of Lambeth council — Paul Stephenson , Norman Mitchell , Nellie Louise Brown and my constituent Neil Flanigan , a found member of the West Indian Association of Service Personnel . their loss be an important reminder of the importance of capture the story and oral history that be part of our national story while there be still time to do so . in 1948 , the UK be desperate for labour to help rebuild the country follow the devastation of the second world war , and the passenger on the Windrush bring a wealth of skill . they include dozen of airmen who have volunteer to serve in the Royal Air Force during the war and who have play a hugely significant role in fight fascism in Europe , include the late Samuel Beaver King — Sam King — who become the first black mayor of Southwark . windrush passenger from the Caribbean travel as british citizen as a result of the British Nationality Act 1948 , which create a new category of " citizen of the United Kingdom and colony " for anyone bear or naturalise in either the UK or any of the country subject to colonial rule . about 200 of the Windrush passenger find temporary accommodation at the Clapham South deep air raid shelter , from where they find their way to the near labour exchange , on Coldharbour Lane in Brixton in my constituency , to look for work and permanent accommodation . many of they find accommodation through jamaican landlord Gus Leslie , who have buy property in and around Somerleyton Road , and they settle in the area close to what be now call Windrush Square . the Windrush passenger find London still devastate by the war , and they find work in a wide variety of different sector of the economy , include in construction and on London ' s public transport network . it be fitting that one of the London overground line have now be name the Windrush line . of course , many of the passenger come to work in the NHS , which be formally establish less than a fortnight after the arrival of the Windrush . King ' s College hospital be at the other end of Coldharbour Lane from the site of the labour exchange in my constituency . member of the Windrush generation have help to sustain our NHS from its inception , not only in London but right across the country . I thank my constituency neighbour for make such a powerful opening speech . do she recognise the valuable contribution of the Windrush generation staff at King ' s College hospital in her constituency and , equally , the valuable contribution — and powerful statue — of Mary Seacole at St Thomas ' hospital , in my constituency , that overlook this Parliament ? of course , in our two borough of Lambeth and Southwark , the contribution of the Windrush generation be extraordinary . it be demonstrate most powerfully in the statue that my hon . friend mention . the life of Windrush passenger , and of other from the Caribbean who follow they to Brixton , be capture by commercial photographer Harry Jacobs , who set up shop on Landor Road , close to Brixton town centre , to provide photographic service so that people could send image to their love one . Harry ' s photo poignantly capture the hope , dream and achievement of people in the process of make a new life : a woman in her nurse ' s uniform ; family dress in their Sunday well , show off their prized possession ; and the first image of a new baby or a new spouse . however , as we remember those story with affection , our commemoration of Windrush Day must avoid any sentimentality . the contribution of the Windrush pioneer be make in a context of widespread racism , the clear and ugly illustration of which be find on sign on the door of boarding house — state " no Irish , no black , no dog " — and which in many situation run much deep , often result in daily discrimination and humiliation . an egregious example be the appalling and still unaddresse scandal of black child be deem emotionally subnormal in the 1960 and ' 70 and be place in special school , where they be deny an education and make to feel inferior . my hon . friend be make a very powerful speech . she talk about the experience of black child in education , and could I remind she of my constituent , Eric Huntley , whom I serendipitously bump into at the weekend ? he and his wife Jessica , who live at 141 Coldershaw Road in West Ealing , establish the Bogle - L ' Ouverture Publications Bookshop back in the 1960 and 1970 . they also establish the Black Parents Movement , which be to help child who be stick in such school and be not be give the education they be entitle to . do she agree that we still need to continue that work to make sure that black child in our school be treat fairly and get the education they deserve ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s constituent , who , like so many of the Windrush generation , demonstrate their resilience by take initiative to circumnavigate the racism to which they be subject . we still live with that racism and discrimination today , and we can never be complacent about that . we must continue to address all the issue that still need to be deal with . in the 1960 and 1970 , lot of young black child be identify as educationally subnormal , and be send to such school even though they be not educationally subnormal . do my hon . friend believe that their descendant and the people affect by that really need to be give an apology to acknowledge what they experience during that time ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she be do on this issue . as I have say , I believe this be an unaddressed issue on which there be still work to do . in that vein , it be devastating to read the word of John Carpenter , which I have share before in this House , who travel on the Windrush age 22 . speak in 1998 , he say : " they tell you it be the ' mother country ' , you ' re all welcome , you all british . when you come here you realise you ' re a foreigner and that ' s all there be to it . " despite the hardship and injustice they endure , the Windrush passenger and those who follow they settle in the UK and put down root , use the Pardner Hand community saving scheme to buy property to circumvent the racist landlord , and to establish business and church . Sam King become a postal worker , be elect to Southwark council and become the first black mayor of the borough . it be a very brave achievement since he face threat from the National Front , which be active in Southwark at that time . Sam be also instrumental in establish the Notting Hill carnival and the West Indian Gazette . he later establish the Windrush Foundation with Arthur Torrington , who still run it . in my constituency , the Windrush generation help to forge the Brixton we know today . in do so , they make a huge contribution to a community where everyone be welcome , where difference be not fear but celebrate , and where we be not stranger but friend and neighbour . to mark the 70th anniversary of the arrival of the Empire Windrush , talented young people from Brixton design a beautiful logo , which be base on the pattern of human DNA . the Windrush generation and subsequent migrant who have come to this country from all over the Commonwealth spark the emergence of modern multicultural Britain . they be part of we , and part of the UK ' s 21st - century dna . the Windrush generation make an extraordinary and enduring contribution , because the Windrush generation continue to endure — will my hon . friend give way ? yes . on that point about the expat who come over from the Caribbean and what they endure , do my hon . friend agree that we sometimes fail to recognise the strength and the resilience of the Windrush generation , which often get overlook ? I thank my hon . friend for intervene and help I make sense of a sentence in my note that do not quite work . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that the Windrush generation make an extraordinary and enduring contribution , and show immense resilience , but they continue to endure racism and injustice . in 2018 , journalist Amelia Gentleman expose what become know as the Windrush scandal — the systematic denial of citizenship right to british citizen who have come to the UK from across the Commonwealth in the decade after the second world war , which see they deport or deny entry to the UK , unable to work or claim their pension , and refuse healthcare and housing . I thank my hon . friend for make a fantastic speech , and for secure this debate . it do seem sometimes quite unfashionable in this day and age to look at the discrimination that that community have endure for so many decade , and not to see it as structural racism . in other word , there be a thread from colonialism , empire and slavery all the way through to Windrush and what we still experience to this day . would she comment on that issue ? I will come on to the wide implication of the scandal , which I think speak to the issue my hon . friend highlight . the Windrush scandal be the most egregious breach of trust . the Windrush compensation scheme be poorly set up by the previous Government , justice have be far too slow and , sadly , many victim of the scandal have die still wait for redress . it be very move to attend , with my hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , the Windrush national vigil on Windrush Square on 6 April , lead by Bishop Dr Desmond Jaddoo , to remember the victim . a comparative analysis by King ' s College London of the compensation scheme compare with other redress scheme , include the Post Office Horizon scheme and the infected blood scandal scheme , have demonstrate that the Windrush compensation scheme have a much low success rate for applicant , more complex initial eligibility requirement , a higher require standard of proof , an inaccessible application process , an absence of funding for independent legal representation for applicant , decision making that lack independence , and a process that be inaccessible . it be vital that change be make so that victim of the Windrush scandal can have confidence in the compensation scheme . that be important because the impact of the scandal be experience not only by the victim themselves , but across the Windrush generation as a whole and for subsequent generation , who live with the emotional weight and the economic cost of what their love one have endure , and whose trust in british institution and the Government have be fractured as a consequence . my hon . friend be make an incredibly powerful speech . do she share not just my tribute to Amelia Gentleman for the work she do to uncover what happen with the Windrush scandal , as well as people like Colin McFarlane and the Justice 4 Windrush Generation campaign , but my horror at the evidence we have see this week that those give compensation to date have not actually be give the same amount as those in other comparable scandal ? do she agree that we must right that wrong from this place ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . this be a question of trust and a question of basic fairness . there can not be any excuse for a lack of clarity across compensation scheme deal with similar structural injustice for which the state be responsible . there be more work to do to ensure that such a scandal can never happen again . this mean reflect on the cause of the Windrush scandal in future policy and legislative decision . for example , we must make sure that the introduction of e - visas allow no scope for anyone who be legitimately in the UK to be wrongly deny their status because they can not access a document online . it also mean ensure that we understand our own past . the Government have commission Professor Becky Francis to undertake the curriculum and assessment review , and I hope she will be think about how subject such as history and geography can be teach through the prism of an accurate understanding of our past , so that through a prism of migration to our country , whether , like I , people come from a town with a viking name and a Norman church or whether their family arrive in the UK in more recent time , they can locate their own story in our history and understand that there be no we and they . we be a nation that have always be form and sustain by people who have come from overseas to make their home on these island . and it mean resource properly the organisation that be the custodian of history , include the National Windrush Museum , and the Black Cultural Archives in my constituency . the BCA be establish in 1981 by Len Garrison , who have come to the UK from Jamaica as a child in 1954 and become a great educationalist in our city . the BCA have an extensive archive document the history of black people in the UK , from the african - roman emperor station at Hadrian ' s wall , Septimius Severus , to black Georgians , the Windrush generation and much , much more . it be a national resource that be critical to our understanding as a society and vital for the sense of place and belong for many black british people . the BCA need stable core funding from the Government commensurate with its national role to enable it to do the work of outreach and interpretation , and to secure it for the long term . I mention very briefly the important and ambitious campaign lead by Patrick Vernon to retrieve the anchor of the Empire Windrush from its current resting place in the Mediterranean sea , so that it can be restore as a memorial and as a tool for the education of young generation . in prepare for this debate , I have be in touch with many people who have campaign and continue to campaign for Windrush justice . they have differ view about the role of celebration on Windrush Day . I know there be some who be concerned that celebration undermine the fight for justice and that they can not celebrate until justice have be do , and I understand that perspective , but there be other who passionately believe that assertively celebrate the Windrush generation and all they have contribute and achieve , give visibility to the community , be a part of the fight for justice . that celebration sustain their campaigning and it be also important for health and wellbeing . I be look forward to join the Brixton Immortals Domino club celebration on Saturday and the Big Caribbean Lunch on Sunday , organise by Ros Griffiths , both to be hold on Windrush Square in my constituency . finally , I want to consider the wide importance of fully address the Windrush scandal and all its implication . as my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) highlight , the Windrush scandal happen as a consequence of structural injustice and it happen as a consequence of our history . Windrush must not be compartmentalised , because if we do that we can not be sure that such a scandal will not be repeat . I mention the extraordinary role of member of the Windrush generation and their descendant in our NHS , which continue to this day . our NHS today , in King ' s College hospital in my constituency , be also sustain by nurse from the Philippines and south India , who be ask to come by our hospital because we need their skill in our healthcare system . we can not rest until we be sure that they , or any other group , will not face the horrific injustice of discrimination base on racism and ignorance that be embed in law and policy . I welcome very much the personal commitment of my hon . friend the Minister to Windrush justice . I be pleased to attend the Windrush summit last week at the Home Office . it be a credit to the approach my hon . friend have take and the work she have do that so many people who have campaign for Windrush justice feel able to attend an event in the Department that have do they such wrong . I know that many of the attendee would not have think that possible just a few month ago . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to implement all the recommendation of Wendy Williams ' lesson learn review and the imminent appointment of a Windrush commissioner . I thank she for all the work she be do to listen , engage and take meaningful step to restore trust and confidence . I know that she understand that there be much more still to do , and I look forward to continue to work with she on behalf of my constituent to secure the depth and breadth of the change we need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for secure this important debate . she have long be a friend to the Windrush community and their descendant , and have long play a major role in celebrate and commemorate their contribution to this country . I be proud to speak in this debate as the first black MP for Liverpool ; I be proud of my african and irish heritage . many member might not know that the SS Ormonde dock in Liverpool the year before the Empire Windrush make her final destination at Tilbury in June 1948 . the Windrush generation come to Britain as citizen — invite by Enoch Powell , we should remember — to rebuild a broken nation after the war . in Liverpool , they settle mostly in the south of the city , build a vibrant community and contribute to our culture in many different way , from music to food to football and to the unique Scouse spirit . they include Lord Woodbine , a Trinidadian who help the Beatles to achieve fame , but who sadly be write out of history . they work in the shipyard , the hospital , the bus and the school . against the daily struggle and common racism , they build our city and claim it as their home . today , we honour their courage and celebrate the legacy they build . in so do , we reject again the disgraceful " island of stranger " narrative that have rear its ugly head recently , evoke the shadow of Enoch Powell as he whip up hatred against the Windrush generation and other migrant he invite to this country . today be a reminder that our diversity be the good of we . for the sacrifice these immigrant make to better our country , we all owe they a debt . with that in mind , I want to use the opportunity of this debate to call for swifter action to fix the Windrush compensation scheme . the Windrush scandal be a national disgrace . it be a deliberate and inevitable outcome of the Tories ' hostile environment policy , and a nightmare for so many who have come to this country as child — citizen who have work their whole life in service to our country and have always pay their taxis . the injustice these people still face be deeply feel . they be deny access to employment , healthcare and other service , often become homeless , and be even detain and remove from the country they have call home for decade . the scandal have have a chilling effect on the entire community , and many now fear come forward to access service in case they face repercussion . to date , the scheme have be incredibly slow and bureaucratic . datum from this time last year show that 8 , 800 claim be make for compensation , only 2 , 600 of which have receive payment . the Government have recently make more funding available for grassroots organisation to support claim through the Windrush scheme , but we still need to go so much far and fast . we need to adapt the recommendation make by the Williams review , rebuild trust and relation with the black caribbean community and consider the implication of our current immigration policy , which risk a continuation of the hostile environment . today , we reaffirm our fight against hostile immigration policy and celebrate our diversity as strength . I congratulate my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) on secure this vital debate . the legacy of Windrush and the plight of the Windrush generation be a matter very dear to my hon . friend and her constituent , as it be to I and my constituent , not least because her constituency be home to Windrush Square , which sit on the edge of my constituency , and to which we both have the pleasure of make numerous visit throughout the year . most recently , I have the pleasure of join my hon . friend and neighbour , along with our other neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , at the Windrush national vigil , organise by the Windrush National Organisation . this event bring together community member for a moment of reflection , remembrance and solidarity for the Windrush generation and their descendant , and provide an opportunity to acknowledge the profound contribution they have make to the fabric of our society . it be that aspect I want to focus on before come to the Windrush scandal and compensation scheme . I have speak before in this Chamber about the role the Windrush generation play in not only rebuild our nation , but transform our society and culture . my constituency of Clapham and Brixton Hill be completely reshape by the Windrush generation , with a legacy that be still evident in the people , the culture , the music , the art , the cuisine and in so many other way . beyond rebuild our city and enrich our culture , the Windrush generation play a crucial role in shape and sustain the public service that we continue to rely on every single day . they be the nurse , midwife and doctor who form the backbone of our NHS , often work long hour in difficult condition to care for the sick and vulnerable . they be the bus driver and train operator who keep our transport network run , ensure that Britain ' s economy keep go . they be the teacher who educate generation of child , instill in they the value of hard work and perseverance . they serve in our armed force , fight for a country that do not always recognise they as equal . their contribution be not just significant — they be indispensable . without they , Britain would not be the country it be today . we in this House often speak of the value of tolerance , diversity , resilience and community — what we call british value . the Windrush generation embody those value through their courage , determination and unwavering belief in a well future , but they be not always treat with those same value in mind . their influence run through the fabric of our nation , and we must ensure that their contribution be not just remember , but celebrate , honour and uphold for generation to come . we have to celebrate they , but we must also understand and remember that the Windrush generation be not always treat with the dignity and respect that they deserve , and that have to be as much a part of our commemoration as anything else . those who travel across ocean to come to Britain do so think they be come to a mother country that would welcome they with open arm . instead , they be meet with hostility , discrimination and barrier to opportunity . they be deny housing , turn away from job for which they be over - qualified , and often make to feel unwelcome in the very nation they have come to help rebuild . many of they and their descendant face similar treatment during the appalling Windrush scandal . it be very much a scandal of the previous Government ' s make . the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , recently give a lecture in this very building as part of the Windrush summit . I remember the immigration legislation that cause all the problem and lead to the Windrush scandal unfold . I remember the Mother of the House stand in this House and warn the Home Secretary at the time that if the Government pass the legislation , it would affect people they have not intend it to affect — people who look different to a number of people across this country . she be point to the black community and say that the legislation would be apply in a way that would cause this scandal , and it do . I remember when the scandal be bring to the fore . I remember the news at the time and the people come forward with individual case . I pay tribute to the Mother of the House , because it be she who lead the first urgent question on the issue , and it be she who continually bring the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister to the Dispatch Box to apologise , repeatedly — until one of they ultimately pay the price with her job and until certain guarantee be make and we start with the review . the previous Government take some step towards recompense people for how they have be treat , and that be important , but for so many — I include — it never feel as though there be genuine remorse for the pain , humiliation and torment inflict on the Windrush generation . it never feel as though the Government at the time truly care . I be pleased that that seem to have change . the Minister for Migration and Citizenship be the first Government Minister to visit Windrush Square and join we at the vigil in April . it do not go unnoticed that this token of respect for the Windrush generation be one that no previous Government Minister have ever display . I be so pleased that the Government have now take step to re - establish the Home Office ' s Windrush unit , which will focus on the action need to ensure that the Windrush scandal be never repeat . I be also pleased that the Home Office be recruit a Windrush commissioner . I hope the Minister can update the House on the progress of that appointment . most importantly , the Minister have stress that the Government be commit to a fundamental reset for the Windrush generation . I hope that the Minister will outline clearly what step the Government be take to bring about that reset . unfortunately , it do not seem from the current immigration legislation go through this House as if lesson have be learn from Windrush . one thing the Mother of the House mention in her recent lecture be that we should be careful not to romanticise the issue of the Windrush generation , because the scandal continue . Windrush Day be great , but justice would be well . the Windrush monument be great , but justice would be even well . the funding be give to community organisation — it be not much , but it be some — to push these issue be great , but in comparison to the compensation that should be pay , it be not enough , and again , justice would be well . while it be nice that the grant and bit of support be go ahead and that we talk about the Windrush generation more , the Home Office must not think that that be a substitute for the justice that the Windrush generation have continually be deny . the Home Office must not think that we do not notice that far too many have die before regularise their status and before receive a penny of justice . it have not go unnoticed , and it must be resolve . the Windrush generation deserve nothing short of our respect and gratitude for the role they have play in british society . I hope that the Government will begin to lay the groundwork to demonstrate that , and not just with pomp and platitude but with the justice that they have be deny for far too long . it be an honour to speak in the debate and to mark Windrush Day 2025 . it be a day of reflection , recognition and pride . in Huddersfield , we be proud of our rich , diverse community , shape in no small part by those who come here as part of the Windrush generation and their descendant . family make their home in our town and have work in our hospital , on our bus , and in our textile mill and factory . they have help to build not only our local economy but the very fabric of our community , and establish a number of domino club in the town , too . they include many people from Carriacou in Grenada — we have one of the large diaspora outside Grenada — as well as community from Jamaica and St Lucia . their contribution continue to shape the cultural and civic life of Huddersfield today . Windrush Day give we a chance to honour that legacy , but it must also remain a call to action , especially when so many of those who give so much continue to be deny justice . for this year ' s commemoration in Huddersfield , there will be a powerful new documentary series by Kirklees Local TV as part of its groundbreake Windrush wise word project . the documentary capture the story of 16 caribbean descendant , preserve their live experience for future generation and shine a light on the contribution and challenge face by our Windrush community and their descendant . event like the Deighton carnival provide an incredible local celebration of african caribbean culture and continue to showcase the vibrancy , pride and legacy of our community in Huddersfield . Venn Street be once home to legendary sound system that put Huddersfield at the heart of the UK ' s reggae scene in the 1980 . Gregory Isaacs , Jimmy Cliff and Desmond Dekker all play at Venn Street . more often than not , artist would come to Huddersfield direct from Jamaica , though some might do one show in Birmingham or London . it be vital that we celebrate those story , but we must also confront the ongoing injustice that many still face . I previously raise in the House the case of a constituent who have be struggle to access the Windrush compensation scheme . like many , he do not have access to support or legal aid . the process can be complicated , confusing and deeply frustrating for those seek justice . sadly , his experience be not unique . across the country , many eligible individual still do not know that they can apply , and other be deter by the scheme ' s complexity . some be navigate ill health or grief but be expect to work through layer of bureaucracy to get the redress that they be owe . I welcome the Minister ' s response to my question in the Chamber , and the subsequent assistance offer to my constituent . I know that she be committed to get this right . the Labour Government have make it clear that the treatment of the Windrush generation be a profound injustice . we must do everything in our power to ensure that everyone affect be treat with dignity and can access the support and compensation they deserve . I have learn a lot about my hon . friend ' s constituency from her speech . she mention the difficulty that victim of the Windrush scandal have have in access support and get the compensation that they deserve ; in fact , many of they have be afraid to go to the authority , because it be those same authority that treat they that way in the first place . do she welcome the £ 1 . 5 million that the new Labour Government have put into the advocacy support group , which will help small , local advocacy group and community group to assist people in access the compensation that they deserve ? I do welcome that . I be about to turn to the subject funding outreach in place like Huddersfield ; that funding will be important . we must ensure that local organisation can play their part , because they know good who to reach out to , but they must have institutional support . we must also embed cultural change in the Home Office , so that these injustice never happen again . the Windrush generation do not just arrive in Britain ; they help to shape it . they make our nhs possible . they raise their family in our town and city , and they contribute to the growth of our economy . they have contribute so much to Huddersfield , the town I live in . they have endure discrimination and hardship , yet they have stand proud , contribute with dignity and determination . as we mark Windrush Day this year , let we move beyond word . let we match our tribute with action , and ensure that justice be deliver , not delay . I pay tribute to my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , for her powerful introduction to the debate . she reference area of her constituency that I know like the back of my hand , because they be where I grow up . grow up in Brixton , there be thing that I recognise from an early age . I recognise that the place be special and unique . I recognise that in the midst of all the chaos , it seem to work well . I recognise that it embrace so many people from so many different community . I think about people with my heritage , from Nigeria , mix and interact with the irish , portuguese , West indian , spanish , latin american and white community . all those different community be mix in the melting pot that we know and love as Brixton . it be really important , and such a testament , to see Windrush Square unveil in the heart of Brixton . it be a place that give so many people a sense of belong and somewhere to commemorate and celebrate our vital Windrush community . Sunday ' s Windrush Day be another chance for we to celebrate and recognise the contribution of the Windrush generation to our community , and to the whole of our country , as my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) just say . last year , I have the honour of welcome the now Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary to the Windrush celebration in Oval in my constituency , not too far from here . at that event , my hon . friend the Members for Dulwich and West Norwood , and for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) — my other constituency neighbour — and I meet the pioneer of the Windrush generation who have build the community that I grow up in around Brixton . these community give we the strength and resilience to face challenge , and a belief that we could make change when we work together . Windrush Day be a source of pride in the community that have be build through that hard work and determination . as much as Windrush Day be a celebration , we must not lose sight of the challenge that this generation have go through . too often , these community have be build in the hard fire of adversity , and nothing represent that more than the Windrush scandal . it see many member of the Windrush generation , people who have be in this country for decade , be deny the most basic right . this lead to people lose their home and their job , and even be deny medical treatment . can you imagine the scandal ? some of they must have know that their grandmother or grandfather have work in those same hospital . at least 83 people end up be wrongly deport from this country that they call home . disgracefully , as we have hear , many of those who be victim of the scandal be still wait to receive compensation . the Independent report last year that at least 50 people have die wait for compensation . follow this Windrush debate , the Government must work to speed up the compensation scheme , as I know my hon . friend the Minister be do . they must reach out to people who understandably do not feel comfortable engage with the Government and the Home Office . I urge the Government to ensure that the Windrush victim have the right legal support , so that they feel able to get the money that they deserve . the Windrush scandal do not have its root in the 2010 . it start in the discrimination and racism that the Windrush generation experience when they first arrive in the UK . it start when some of they arrive by train at Waterloo station in my constituency . the station be home to the national Windrush monument , which be unveil on 22 June 2022 by Prince William and Catherine . the statue depict a man , a woman and a young child , with their suitcase , in their Sunday good . that be what the Windrush generation do : they dress up in their Sunday good to come to this country to help serve it . the statue be design by Basil Watson . I urge member who have not visit it to do so . on the side of the statue there be a poem by Professor Laura Serrant entitle " you call . . . and we come " , relive that call to action — the call to duty that many of the Windrush generation rightly answer . I want to mention the Mary Seacole statue . I think back to early June 2017 , when I be pace up and down the maternity ward of St Thomas ' hospital , try to get my son to come out . he be almost two week overdue . look down from the eighth floor and see that statue of Mary Seacole , I think about the many woman from the Windrush generation who have commit so many hard year to work for our NHS . through the 12 - year Mary Seacole appeal , member of the community raise vital fund to ensure that the statue be erect . it be formally open by another great pioneer and child of the Windrush : Baroness Floella Benjamin , who sit in the other place . another statue in my constituency be the " Bronze Woman " at Stockwell war memorial , just by the roundabout . accord to record , it be the first statute depict a black woman . it be erect in 2008 , and I have the honour of attend the unveiling , as a councillor . it depict a woman hold a child in the air . it show the power of the Windrush , which run through my constituency and many other . as hon . member have highlight , we can not again make the same mistake that happen during the Windrush scandal . while we have make progress , we know that racism have not completely disappear from our society . we need to ask ourselves how it can be right that we still see health and race inequality in our NHS , and how it can be right that some of our black and minority ethnic community continue to live in bad - quality accommodation . we must not treat the Windrush scandal in isolation , and we must not , as a government , make the same decision in our policymaking that lead to the Windrush scandal in the first place . I urge the Government to be extremely careful when they carry out their review of citizenship later this year . we must not put arbitrary barrier in the way of those arrive in our country . we must not say to people who work day in , day out , as our nurse and our carer — job that essentially keep this country go — that they have less of a right to become a citizen . do that will entrench further inequality in our country . it will deny people who pay taxis and help run our public service a say in how those service be run . that can not be the aim of this Government , and we must never introduce hostile policy like those that lead to the Windrush scandal in the first place . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for open this timely debate — she make a fantastic speech — and hon . friend for their contribution . I want to touch on the story that Windrush tell of this country . story be important ; the story we tell ourselves define we as a country . it be right that we celebrate the Windrush generation and their contribution , but as other speaker have say , there be a dark side to this story . I do not want to be too negative , but I want to touch on some of that dark side , because it be important and instructive , give where we find ourselves , as a country and a world . I would not be stand here today as a black Member of Parliament if one of my ancestor in Africa have not be abduct and put on a slave ship . for generation after that , my ancestor be beat and make to work in the most terrible condition to make money for someone in this country , or for their slave master in the Caribbean . yet because of those ancestor , I stand here today . history be complicated — I think we can agree on that — but that do not mean that we should not try to unpick it . look around at my colleague , I must say that it be politically fashionable in some quarter to say that many of we be recipient of DEI — diversity , equality and inclusion policy — that we have be gift our place , and that anyone who come from the black community , be a woman or have tendency or sexuality that be not see as the norm have be gift their position . anyone who understand the Labour party selection process will know that be not the case . in fact , many of we face a double whammy — we be both work class and black . it take a lot to get into this place , and yet we be here , and we be not go anywhere . I remember back in 2021 , when the Conservatives , who be here on the Government Benches , under Boris Johnson , produce the disgraceful race report . I think they want to forget that . I would be interested to hear what the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , think about that report now . it say that structural racism do not exist , it be a figment of our collective imagination , we have effectively be dream about it for 400 year , and there be no link between empire , slavery and the racism that stretch from that all the way to the Windrush scandal and beyond . indeed , that notion of outsider — of foreigner — figure in much of our immigration debate to this very day . what be racism ? it be a hierarchy of worth . we see it all around the world in conflict : " if you be from this part of the world with this ethnicity , your worth be this much , but if that be your ethnicity , your worth be that much and you can take that much suffering . and if you ' re up here , you don ' t need to suffer ; you ' re part of the elite . " that be what racism be : a hierarchy of suffering . we can not forget that it be real and allow people to tell we that our history be something in which only good thing happen , where thing be shiny and nice , and that we have an empire to help and develop the rest of the world . I remember when I be go on the ITV breakfast programme , and I have to have a chat with the producer beforehand . he say , " clive , you do realise that the railway in India have help India to get into the 21st century and to industrialise ? the British build those railway . " I reply , " you know , you ' re right , but that be why it ' s so complicated . do you think for a second that the British build the railway in India for the benefit of the Indians ? " the answer be no ; they build they to extract vast wealth from India , and it just so happen that the Indians can now use that railway network to industrialise and make themselves rich . history be complicated . I will finish with this . there be a movement around the world ; in Germany , in Europe and , dare I say it , in the United States , whose President believe that a genocide be happen in South Africa — really , he believe that , and he be come here for a state visit . all around the world , there be an attack on history — on good history . good history be complicated ; it tell a complicated story about this country and its past . I have serve this country know full well its history in empire , know full well its history in slavery . I have serve it because I love this country , wart and all . I do not need to tell myself a story about this country be perfect in the past and only do thing for the good . I love it , wart and all , because it have give I and my family , friend and community so many opportunity . my dad be welcome to this country by my mother ' s english family . the trade union movement welcome he . our history be complex . the Labour party be complex . the country be complex . history be complex . let we never forget that , as we go forwards . we must understand that history be complex for a reason because — and this move I — we be all human being , and human being be complex themselves . that be why our history be complex and that be what we need to understand . as we move forward , talk about Windrush , celebrate Windrush Day , and pass legislation in this place about black people , about immigration and about asylum seeker , let we remember our complex history and try to do well in the future . it be always a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) . history be write by the person hold the pen . that do not necessarily mean that it be the history of what happen at the time ; it be tell through a specific lens . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for instigate this important debate on Windrush . my Brent East constituency be one of the most diverse constituency in Europe . on that point , as this be the first time I have speak in the Chamber today , I send my condolence to everyone affect by the plane crash in India , as many of my constituent have be . ultimately , what affect one , affect we all . the Windrush ship bring people from Jamaica , Trinidad , St Lucia , Grenada and Barbados . as my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) say , many serve in the british armed force in world war two , so they be owe something by their mother country . I will talk a bit about my mum . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) talk about people come over in their Sunday good . if we look at those picture , we can see how crisp and sharp their suit be , with shirt that be sparkle white . they be proud — so proud . we have our play out clothe , our school clothe , and our church clothe , and never the three do meet . we be teach an inherent sense of pride in ourselves . we be not allow to eat on the street , because that would give the impression that we do not have food at home . we be not allow to carry clothe in a plastic bag , because they call that a scandal bag in Jamaica , so we have to have a proper cloth bag . we be teach so much . we wash every day , which might seem like a weird thing to say now , but my parent would tell I that they have only wash once a week because they have to go to a wash house . we have to wash every single day . we also wash our meat and our chicken before we season it — and the seasoning be more than salt and pepper ; salt and pepper be an accompaniment . what be bring from the Caribbean be more than some people appreciate , because it be now take for grant . when we go to other West indian people ' s home , we would find lot of thing in common , like hand crochet doily on the chair and on the table . my mum use to crochet little duck and dip they in dye so they have little red beak . it be so inventive . nowadays , we would pay a fortune for that skill . all our clothe be bespoke ; I would be embarrassed that my mum make my clothe , but now I would love my mum to make my clothe to measure . now I have grow up , I realise that the thing that we be teach to be almost ashamed of when we come here be actually very special — very unique and grand . the reason we would find the same picture frame in West indian people ' s home be that there be only one photographer who would take picture of black people and frame they . picture of wedding kind of look the same then , because there be only one place that would do that for the west indian community . that be how West indian people be treat in a place that they call the motherland . the Windrush scandal be about not just the loss of employment , the loss of access to benefit , homelessness and the loss of access to housing , or the loss of access to healthcare and education . as my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) say , the system be deliberately structure to make sure that black people do not progress by label they as educationally subnormal — to stop their ability to work and earn . it stop people buy their house or send their child to college , which a lot of West indian people have do . the reason only 2 , 000 people have claim be that there be a lot of shame that come with that ; the West indian community be a very proud community . that be why we have to instil Labour value from a Labour Government in how we readdress what have happen to the Windrush generation . it have be an absolute scandal . around 50 , 000 - plus people have be affect by this issue , and some will die . some have die , and some will die before they see justice . we must speed up progress . the scheme be not a light - touch design , as the then Government say it be . it be something like 45 page , and although they say that people do not need a lawyer , they do because it be so complex . I be ashamed that not one Back - Bench Member of his Majesty ' s opposition have come to this debate . this be not a niche debate ; this be a debate about hundred of thousand of people who come to this country to rebuild it , who be invite here , and Opposition Members have not even have the decency to come here and contribute — and they be the cause of the scandal and injustice . I will end as I begin . Martin Luther King say that what affect one affect we all , because that be the interrelated structure of society . we be all intertwine in life ' s journey , and as racism be increase in some part of the country and people be try to divide we , I hope that we remember — on Jo Cox day — that we have more in common . I thank my hon . friend for their speech and story from their constituent . they have be incredibly insightful as well as heartbreaking , but that be exactly why we be here . I be sincerely grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for give we the opportunity to bring the House together to honour the Windrush generation , and those whose courage , resilience , and extraordinary contribution help rebuild post - war Britain . let we be clear : they answer a call . they work hard and graft , and they help to shape the very fabric of the country we know today . we see example of that generation ' s legacy in Wolverhampton , embody in the life and work of so many people , like Professor Mel Chevannes — an inspirational role model who , when elect in 1981 as the city ' s first african - caribbean councillor , go on to chair the social service committee and later become the first african - caribbean chair of the Royal Wolverhampton NHS trust . her leadership , her service , and her example not only open door but shattered glass ceiling . this weekend , Wolverhampton will pay a lasting tribute to Professor Chevannes with the unveiling of a bronze bust — a permanent reminder of the power of representation and the endure contribution of the Windrush generation to our public life . today be not only about celebration ; it be also about justice , because for too many the Windrush story include real pain . the Windrush scandal inflict deep harm on people who have every right to live here — people who build their life here and serve our community , but be betray by a system that refuse to see their humanity . we see that pain in the story of the late Paulette Wilson — a Wolverhampton resident , and a cook who once work in Parliament , in this very House . Paulette come to Britain as a child and spend more than 50 year here , but in 2015 she receive a letter declare she an illegal immigrant . she be make homeless , her benefit be stop , and in 2017 she be detain and send to Heathrow for deportation to a country she have not see in half a century . with the swift action of my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , who be Paulette ' s MP at that time , work alongside the Refugee and Migrant Centre in Wolverhampton , and with Paulette ' s strong determination , she fight back and she win . she be grant leave to remain . but more than that : she choose to speak out , become a voice for so many other who have suffer in silence . her courage help expose the systematic injustice at the heart of the Windrush scandal and force change . in 2021 , a plaque be proudly place at the Wolverhampton Heritage Centre , once the office where Enoch Powell write his divisive " river of blood " speech but now a thriving symbol of african - caribbean heritage and real community spirit . I welcome the fact that this Labour Government be forge ahead to deliver justice , launch a £ 1 . 5 million advocacy fund , re - establish the Windrush unit , significantly reduce the time take to allocate claim , and begin the recruitment of a Windrush commissioner to ensure victim ' voice remain at the heart of Government policy . Windrush should not just be a chapter in our history ; it have to be a call for action to challenge we to build a country ground in fairness , shape by justice and define by a true sense of belong for all . I commend the courage and resilience of Paulette and all our Windrush generation — the thousand of other who face this rogue injustice — and hope that such atrocity can never happen again . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . there have be some incredibly powerful speech this evening , and I feel really lucky to be participate in the debate . there be a lot to celebrate , but there be an awful lot to be really angry about as well . we owe an enormous amount to the caribbean and broad black - british community for their contribution to our society , not least the Windrush generation ' s key role in build the NHS , and in my own region , the black - caribbean community ' s role in profoundly shape Greater Manchester ' s cultural landscape and social fabric . in 1966 , Louise Da - Cocodia become Manchester ' s first senior nursing officer , have come from Jamaica in 1955 . confront with relentless racism in her role , she channel her experience into activism , become a key anti - racist campaigner , and her legacy continue through the organisation she help to establish . in 1980 , Kath Locke , a pioneer mix - race community activist , found the Abasindi Co - operative , a black , woman - lead community organisation base in the Moss Side people ' s centre . it offer essential service , include a drop - in centre for the elderly , a community health hub and a Saturday school to tackle educational underachievement and high youth unemployment . in 1991 , the NIA centre , now the Playhouse theatre in Hulme , open as the first large - scale art venue in Europe dedicate to african and caribbean culture . its inaugural event feature none other than the legendary Nina Simone . today , the Chuck gallery in central Manchester continue that legacy by showcase and celebrate Afro - caribbean and african art . it work to foster great understanding and appreciation of caribbean artistic perspective . here in the UK , far too many people ' s life be still blight by prejudice , discrimination and inequality . racism be still far too prevalent in our society . we all have a responsibility to recognise that reality , but also to recognise the role that we can play in challenge that injustice . I be proud that the Lib Dems be commit to fight for racial equality , and that mean unequivocally condemn racism in all its form and tackle injustice wherever we see it . in her opening , very powerful remark , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) rightly lay out that the previous Government fail to deliver the justice that Windrush victim so deeply deserve . the Government dither and delay on implement the recommendation of Wendy Williams ' lesson - learn review . liberal Democrats will keep push the Government . the Windrush generation make a huge contribution to the life and the economy of the UK , but I want to pay tribute to the Hong Kong community in my constituency of Wokingham and across the United Kingdom , who I be sure will make the same contribution to the UK . I be deeply concerned that the Government be pile uncertainty and worry on British Hongkongers through their reform to indefinite leave to remain . these people , who be live here in Britain , already fear retribution from China . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should have their back and maintain the five - year pathway for british national overseas status holder ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise the huge contribution of Hongkongers in his constituency . I have ask the Minister before about some of the change the Government propose to the time period for indefinite leave to remain . the Minister have answer that a consultation be under way , and I be sure that she will talk about that in her closing remark . I feel that we need to value the contribution make by those who be new arrival in our country , and I agree with my hon . friend ' s comment . the Liberal Democrats will keep push the Government to right the wrong force on to the Windrush generation , include by urgently implement the lesson - learn review in full and make the compensation scheme independent of the Home Office . like the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , I hope very much that the Minister be in a position to update the House on the progress be make on right those wrong and deliver justice . the Lib Dems have long push for the implementation of a comprehensive race equality strategy , which would include provision aim at reduce the disproportionately high and utterly shameful maternal mortality rate for black woman and for eliminate racial disparity in maternal health , as other right hon . and hon . member have mention this evening . I want to have a point on the record , as it be very important to do so — I be talk to the parliamentary Private Secretary beforehand , and I talk to the Minister early on . on behalf of Windrush people who get their status in Northern Ireland , I will say that the Windrush scheme for Northern Ireland enable people to work and remain and to have equality with the rest of we . I put on record our thank for that scheme , because those in Northern Ireland who come through the Windrush scheme be enable to help our country and Northern Ireland be a well place because of the culture , history , and interaction and social action that they bring . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . each successive generation that arrive on these shore , as people have do for millennia , have add to our rich cultural and social fabric . he be absolutely right to highlight his part of the world and the impact that people have have in his community . on the thing that we should also look at , I will say that we should end the disproportionate use of stop and search . we should also look very carefully at the use of live facial recognition , which be most likely to wrongly identify black man and woman . in so many way , we be hold this debate because of the tireless campaign of many of the Windrush generation , not least the liberal Democrat peer , my noble Friend Baroness Floella Benjamin . Floella ' s journey be emblematic of the Windrush generation . she arrive in Britain from Trinidad in 1960 at the age of 10 , accompany by three of her sibling . her childhood be mark by persistent racism ; she recall every day as a battle where she be either ignore or subject to verbal abuse . during a house viewing , neighbour call the police , accuse her family of steal furniture from what would soon be their own home . Floella , of course , be not alone . many child of her generation endure those indignity in silence , shoulder the burden of rejection by cling to the hope that life would one day improve . leave school at 16 , she charter an extraordinary path — first as an actress , then as a presenter , writer , independent producer and always a tireless advocate for the care , education and welfare of child worldwide . today , she chair the Windrush Commemoration Committee , which be charge with establish a lasting tribute to the Windrush generation and its descendant . among the Committee ' s notable achievement be the unveiling of the national Windrush monument at Waterloo station , which be design by celebrate jamaican artist Basil Watson , as mention early by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . the monument stand as a powerful symbol of the immense hardship and equally immense contribution of the Windrush generation to british life . Floella ' s voice remain a powerful one , hold the Government to account to ensure that the Windrush generation receive the recognition and justice that it so rightly deserve . I believe it be Floella who first propose the idea of Windrush Day as a national celebration of the moment when caribbean community come to rebuild Britain in the face of adversity . it be thank to her determination that we be able to mark this occasion and speak of it today . as well as be the giver of the good hug in Parliament , she be a celebrated author , use her experience to educate future generation with her writing . it be right that we celebrate Floella and all the Windrush generation today . I call the shadow Minister . I thank all the member who have make contribution to today ' s debate . I be particularly grateful to the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for bring the debate before the House , give member a chance to speak about their and their constituent ' experience of , and with , the Windrush generation . as note by the then Prime Minister , Clement Attlee , in a letter to mps , those first arrival on the Windrush be expect to make a genuine contribution to address the UK ' s post - war labour shortage . the story of the Windrush generation that follow be both troubling and inspirational , with many account of exceptional resilience and the overcoming of adversity . I want to be very clear : it be important that we acknowledge when the state fail its citizen . the treatment of some Windrush citizen be an unacceptable failure that successive government must own . that be why the previous Conservative Government apologise unreservedly and take decisive action . it be critical that the last Government establish the compensation scheme . over £ 100 million be grant in compensation to those affect , with over £ 93 million have be pay out , and that figure continue to rise as more claim be settle under this Government . do the shadow Minister believe that the Windrush scandal be an aberration — a few bad apple over a few decade — or be the cause structural racism ? I think that Windrush and other scandal that have plague our society be a stain on the UK . whether the cause be , as the hon . Member say , a few bad apple or any other reason , the fact remain that we have to take action to address the issue that be create . we must ensure that those who be affect be compensate , that those who be affect and can not be compensate be recognise , and that measure be put in place so that it can not happen again . that be what I be interested in . I be not here in the last Parliament — that be not an excuse , but all I can do be my very good to ensure that injustice be not repeat in future . as I be say , the compensation scheme have pay over £ 93 million , and that figure continue to rise . we hope the Government will continue to ensure that those settlement be pay . however , as we look forward to this year ' s Windrush Day , while we must reflect on and learn from past injustice , we should also reflect on and honour the contribution of this remarkable generation . the noble Baroness , Lady Benjamin , who chair the Windrush Commemoration Committee , speak in a parliamentary debate about the importance of celebrate the positive aspect of Windrush Day . while for some , that name will forever be associate with scandal , I welcome the effort of community and member of the Windrush generation to reclaim it in a positive light . many campaigner want the term " Windrush " to represent , not the scandal , but the vast and very many contribution make to the UK by this generation . as his Majesty the King note when meet member of the community on the 75th anniversary of the ship ' s arrival , this be an " indomitable generation " . he say : " history be , thankfully and finally , begin to accord a rightful place to those man and woman of the Windrush generation . " a critical element of that recognition be commemoration , and — as we have hear — we should be grateful for the work of Basil Watson , whose magnificent national Windrush monument stand as a powerful tribute to the community . as the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) reflect , its location at Waterloo mean that thousand of people pass it every day , a constant reminder to those depart or arrive at the station . when the decision be make to locate that monument at Waterloo , official say that the decision be take because it be where thousand of Windrush pioneer first arrive in London before start new life across the UK . for many member of the Windrush generation , Waterloo be not the end of a journey , but the beginning of a new life in this country and of the many contribution that they would go on to make . a former Minister at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government capture the essence of the monument : " Basil Watson ' s sculpture perfectly capture the spirit of Windrush . in it we see the strength , hope and expectation of those who arrive with little and yet give so much . " of course , that statue — while symbolic — be only one part of the broad support provide . as member will recall , in 2020 the previous Government launch a fund to support community - lead initiative celebrate Windrush Day . that funding be intend to enable project across England to commemorate the Windrush generation and their descendant . it form part of a wide effort to recognise the Windrush generation ' s last contribution to british society , and I be pleased to see that the funding continue in 2025 , with 30 project support under the current grant scheme . I understand that the Government have dedicate £ 4 . 25 million in funding towards honour the Windrush legacy . in addition , while the Government have a vital role to play , the 75th anniversary also see a wide range of private contribution , from event and exhibition to documentary , article and much more . it should also be recognise that drama and tv have a way of enrich the Windrush story . I think of probably my favourite programme — it be perhaps the hon . Lady ' s favourite programme — " call the Midwife " , which show the drama of the Windrush scheme through the people in that programme , what they endure and what they have give to society . do she recognise that drama and tv also can tell the story of Windrush in a great way ? I thank the hon . member for that . television , drama and even radio and other non - visual mean can show the story in a lot well light than anyone make a contribution at this Dispatch Box or in this Chamber . see these thing in real life , in colour and out in the street be the way to bring they to life and to make sure that we recognise every day how the community be completely entwine in our society . the 80th anniversary in a few year ' time will be another opportunity to commemorate the endure impact of this generation and to encourage further work from those in the creative industry who play such a vital role in shape the public consciousness . although today have be choose as an appropriate moment to hold this debate in advance of Windrush Day on 22 June , commemoration need not be limit to anniversary or milestone . I be confident that those involve will continue to highlight and educate other about the vital role that individual play , their resilience and their ability to overcome adversity . more broadly , today allow we to reflect on the Windrush generation ' s contribution to our institution , industry and , importantly , our community . it be worth remember that HMT Empire Windrush be transport dozen of caribbean passenger who have serve as RAF airmen — many return from leave and other rejoin the service . many more from this generation and their descendant would go on to serve our country in our armed force . that be in addition to the countless individual of the Windrush generation who help build and sustain the NHS , particularly when post - war UK have an acute workforce shortage . that be not to mention the enormous contribution across so many other field , include science , education , social work , business and countless other . I acknowledge the Government ' s ongoing work to address the injustice that occur in the Home Office . there be still claim to be resolve and payment to be make , and challenge remain in overcome the consequence of past error . we can not change the past , but we can ensure that the scheme establish by the previous Government continue to deliver for every eligible person . I welcome the fact that Patrick Vernon and Baroness Benjamin and other campaign for a Windrush Day . it have give we all the opportunity to focus on the story of those who come to this country and contribute so much , share how they come to Britain , how they be shape by it and how they have help shape it in turn . that be vital . as such , I thank member for share their experience and those of their constituent in the debate . I call the Minister . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for secure this debate and all member who have speak in an incredibly powerful and move discussion . that include my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) and for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . I also thank the shadow spokespeople , who make powerful contribution . I will try to refer later in my speech to a number of the point that have be raise , but let I first thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) for her story about Professor Chevannes and Paulette Wilson , which , like so many story tell during the debate , be very powerful . I also want to acknowledge Basil Watson ' s wonderful sculpture , and the story that it tell to all who come and go through Waterloo station . when my hon . friend the Member for Brent East speak about her mother , I think we all recognise a little bit of her mother in all our mother , and I be sure that her pride in her mother would have be reflect very much in her mother ' s pride in she and her contribution . this Sunday mark 77 year since the Empire Windrush arrive at Tilbury . along with the thousand of other who come to the United Kingdom from the caribbean and country across the Commonwealth in the 1940 , 1950 , 1960 and 1970 , they become know as the Windrush generation . they and their child and grandchild have enrich our society in myriad way , and we owe they an enormous debt of gratitude . on Windrush Day , we celebrate they and their extraordinary achievement and contribution to our economy , community , society and culture ; but we also acknowledge the appalling and humiliating treatment to which many member of the Windrush generation be subject owe to the action of past government . let I say , clearly and without equivocation , that the Home Office Windrush scandal be a travesty that cause untold pain and suffering . there have be much talk about right the wrong , but word alone be not enough , and this Government be back up our promise with action . we promise a reset when we be in opposition , and since the general election we have seek to strengthen engagement with victim , their family , community and stakeholder organisation . I have regularly meet many organisation , include the Windrush National Organisation — I pay tribute to Bishop Desmond Jadoo , and I be honour to join a very powerful vigil with some of my hon . friend in April — and Windrush Defenders Legal . from London to Manchester and from Cardiff to Edinburgh , I have hear victim describe how their life be turn upside down , about the trauma they go through , and about the impact that the scandal be still have on their life . as we have seek to embed a culture of listen and learning throughout the Department , we have work to improve training and standard , as well as publish the report " the Historical root of the Windrush Scandal " last September . I be clear about the fact that the lesson we learn should inform our way of work across Government . in April , the Home Secretary and I be honour to host the Windrush Cymru Elders for a special screening in the Home Office , with Professor Uzo Iwobi and Race Council Cymru , of the BAFTA - nominate film " Windrush Cymru @ 75 " . last week we be proud to host the first day of the National Windrush Museum ' s annual summit , lead by Dr Les Johnson and denize Ledeatte — a powerful summit address the theme of " reframe Windrush and justice for a new Britain " . we will very soon announce the appointment of a new independent Windrush commissioner , underline this Government ' s unwavere determination to ensure that the voice of the Windrush generation be hear , their experience be acknowledge , and proper compensation be deliver . we be committed to improve the Windrush compensation scheme to ensure that those to whom compensation be due receive the support that they deserve quickly . in opposition , we frequently hear that the application process be too complicated , with insufficient support for those wish to make a claim . the Government be determined to ensure that the victim of the Home Office Windrush scandal be hear , that justice be speed up , and that the compensation scheme be run efficiently and effectively . we have already make change to the casework process , reduce wait time for the allocation of claim from four month to under six week . in April , we launch a £ 1 . 5 million advocacy support fund to provide dedicated help from trusted community organisation when victim apply for compensation . however , we recognise that there be much more to be do , which be why Ministers be continue to engage with community group on improvement to the compensation scheme , and we will ask the Windrush commissioner to recommend any further change that they believe be require . I want to address two point that be make in the debate . the first be about people who unfortunately pass away after submit a claim — we be aware of about 64 claimant . in these very difficult circumstance , the team continue to work closely with their appoint representative , who be usually a member of the family , to ensure that claim continue and be conclude as quickly as possible . we prioritise those claim where we be notify that individual be suffer from critical or life - limit illness , and official be review the current exclusion in the rule on compensation for private and occupational pension . we be work at pace to consider option for how we can compensate for these loss , and work closely with the Government Actuary ' s Department to support this critical work . the Windrush story have resonance for we all , and for community across the country . I be pleased to tell the House that this Government have support this year ' s commemoration through the Windrush Day grant scheme , which be chair by Paulette Simpson and work with my noble Friend in the other place , the Minister for Faith and Communities . we be fund project to celebrate and commemorate the Windrush , and to educate people about it . we be fund the National Windrush Museum to collect and preserve precious asset for future generation , and as a great educational resource for school , researcher and the wide public . my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) talk about the government give a little bit of money for this and that . I be really pleased to hear about the Windrush Museum . will the Minister consider set up an emancipation educational trust , so that we can have a building where we can talk not only about the injustice of Windrush , but about the injustice of people be enslave ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment , and I be very happy to talk about these issue far . she will know that the Migration Museum document history through some very powerful exhibition . it be so important that Windrush Day event be happen across the country , with community festival , live music , workshop , talk , film and so much more , and I be look forward to mark Windrush Day this weekend — both with the Caribbean & African Health Network in Manchester and at the Big Caribbean Lunch in Brixton , where I hope to join my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) in Windrush Square . I pay tribute to the work of Ros Griffiths and the friend of Windrush Square , base in my hon . friend ' s constituency . in this debate and those in recent year , we have hear the powerful and vivid account of people ' s experience since the 1940 , include on the 75th anniversary , on which his Majesty the King describe those who step off the Empire Windrush at Tilbury in 1948 as " pioneer " , which be exactly what they be . through their hard work , sacrifice , togetherness and unbreakable spirit , they endure against a backdrop of racism and discrimination that we know exist at the time . but more than that , they thrive . on the railway , road and construction site , in our armed force , factory and fledgling NHS , and in so many other sector , they help Britain get back on its foot . they help rebuild this country , its infrastructure and our public service . however , Windrush be not merely a prosaic story of service render at a time of national need ; it be so much more than that . it be a story of a community that become indelibly etch into the very fabric of our social tapestry , and a story of art , music , literature , language and cultural enrichment . put simply , it be the story of british life be change for the well . to wrap up , I again thank all member who have speak . I also pay tribute to those who have be mention in the debate , include Baroness Benjamin and my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who , in this House and the other , have arguably do more than any other to advance the Windrush cause and highlight its importance to our national identity . this debate have be a powerful and poignant reminder of the countless way that this country have be strengthen by the Windrush generation and their descendant , and the enormous debt of gratitude that we owe they . their contribution span every facet of our society . put simply , Britain would not be Britain without they , and under this government , they will always get the respect , thank and support that they deserve . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to the debate . we have hear from many different area of our country — from Yorkshire , Merseyside , Manchester , East Anglia and the west midland — and we have of course have great representation from north and especially south London . we have have powerful contribution pay tribute , reflect thoughtfully on the complexity of our history , and speak about the injustice that the Windrush generation have endure . although this have be a very consensual debate , it be disappointing that there be so little recognition from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , of the fault of the Windrush compensation scheme . for many of my constituent , engage with the scheme have truly be a nightmare , because the threshold of proof be so high and the process so complicated . I thank the Minister again for her commitment to engage with Windrush campaigner , and to put right the wrong of the past . finally , I wish everyone who be celebrate this weekend a joyful and meaningful celebration that acknowledge and celebrate the Windrush generation , give strength to our community , and create friendship , acceptance and togetherness , make less space for racism and injustice . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) mention our dear friend Jo Cox , who be murder by a right - wing racist nine year ago today , and whose voice we still miss in this place . I end with Jo ' s word : we " have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] if we can live out that truth , we can continue to make the progress that our community need to see . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Windrush Day 2025 . business without Debate Scottish Affairs order , that Stephen Flynn be discharge from the Scottish Affairs Committee and Dave Doogan be add . — ( Chris Elmore , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Animal experiment : Medical Research Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) before I start , I must declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on phase out animal experiment in medical research . this issue be very important to I , and to many of my constituent who contact I about this matter . I recognise that there be many view on this topic , on both side of this debate , but it be clear that the scientific evidence for end these procedure become strong by the day . I be also a member of the Labour Animal Welfare Society , and I must also declare that interest . many people may not be aware that five animal be use in research every minute of every day in the UK . Non - technical summary of animal experiment licence grant between January and March 2025 show that over 2 million animal be approve for use across 125 project , include 120 beagle , and there be a further licence for invasive brain surgery on monkey . many specie be use , include dog , cat , rat , horse , mouse , zebra , fish and chicken . many may be surprise by that list , but the simple message be that animal experiment be fail patient , and I will say a bit more about that later . I recently lead a petition debate in Westminster Hall on immediately ban the use of dog in scientific and regulatory procedure . this petition now have over 240 , 000 signature , which I think be a great demonstration of public opinion on this issue . during that debate , I quote from a debate in the other place in 1927 on the Protection of Dogs Bill , in which it be state that experiment on dog might be discontinue , yet a century later , we be still here debate this issue . I recently meet researcher at Glasgow University who be work to develop animal - free research method . they tell I that one challenge they face be a lack of dedicated funding . do my hon . friend agree that if we be to transition to more humane testing , the Government must consider make more research funding available ? I agree with my hon . friend . move towards animal - free research will take some time , which be why we refer to " phase out " . the funding structure , particularly relate to academic research , have to shift . I thank she for her intervention . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate , and for lead the Petitions Committee debate in Westminster Hall this afternoon . I speak to she beforehand . do she recognise that there have be world - lead innovation in anti - tumour necrosis factor treatment for arthritis , and that have have a life - change impact across the world on those with auto - immune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis , multiple sclerosis , Crohn ' s and colitis ? that would not have be possible without limited research on animal . research on animal must be consider as an option , give that people with those disease now at least have the opportunity for a well life due to the medication perfect because of it . as I say , this be about phase out animal experiment in research . I hope that the example of scientific experimentation the hon . Gentleman have give would be possible without animal research in year to come . the use of animal in research raise serious question about animal welfare , particularly in procedure that cause pain , distress or even death . do my hon . friend agree that advance in technology be make the transition away from animal testing more feasible ? in vitro technique use human cell and tissue , computer modelling , and organ - on - a - chip technology provide promise human - relevant alternative . these method can offer fast , more cost - effective and more ethically sound result than traditional animal test . I fully agree with everything my hon . Friend say . it be important to note that only 14 % of the UK public feel it be acceptable to use dog for medical research . with that in mind , ban the use of dog in medical research could be our first step towards fully phase out research on animal . we should be encourage to follow in the footstep of other country , such as the USA , which have recently publish a road map , with the aim of make animal test the exception , rather than the norm , for pre - clinical safety toxicity testing over the next three to five year . my hon . friend mention the USA commit to a road map . I believe the EU have also do so , and be look to phase out animal testing entirely through its road map , which be due to be publish in 2026 . do she agree that the UK Government could commit to something similar — a road map that give activist and other confidence in our direction of travel ? I fully agree with my hon . friend . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate . like she , I be a member of the Labour Animal Welfare Society . will she pay tribute to the work of Animal Free Research UK , which have do a lot of work on this issue , and the campaign on Herbie ' s law , which be a propose framework that would set a deadline of 2035 for phase out animal experiment in medical research in the UK , and ensure support for scientist make the transition ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and fully agree with everything he have say . I will speak about those matter a bit later . to achieve those aim , we must consider several thing . there need to be a serious shift in funding towards non - animal method . the all - party parliamentary group on human - relevant science estimate that human - relevant , non - animal method funding " represent between 0 . 2 % and 0 . 6 % of total biomedical research funding in the UK and ~ 0 . 02 % of the total public expenditure … on R & D . " that need to shift considerably . the cosmetic brand Lush be one of the group work to fill this funding gap , with prize fund that support initiative to end or replace animal testing . recent winner range from organ - on - a - chip technology that emulate the human liver , development in in - silico model to predict cellular process at a molecular level , and a research group improve multi - material bioprinting platform for create 3d human organ - on - a - chip model . these non - animal method can be far more relevant and accurate to human body , compare with testing on other specie . give the success of the cosmetic industry phase - out , this proven approach could be replicate and provide a legislative blueprint for the next step in the medical sector . in March 2013 , a complete marketing ban on all endpoint for animal testing on cosmetic be introduce ; on the day of the ban ' s introduction in 2013 , the European Commission confirm that between 2007 and 2011 , a total of € 238 million be invest in research into alternative to animal testing in the EU , reflect major investment envisage for use well beyond the cosmetic industry . do my hon . friend agree that funding for computer modelling and artificial intelligence opportunity be vital for this sector , especially as we look to reduce cruelty in animal testing ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . it be worth question the quality of care for animal use in animal experiment . answer to write parliamentary question indicate that only one licence application have be reject over the past seven year , indicate that licence to conduct animal experiment be rarely refuse . applicant be also allow to adjust and resubmit licence application to enable they to be grant ; for the past four year , application have a mean number of 2 . 55 iteration before they be grant . accord to Animal Free Research , a group that support scientist to transition from animal - base to human - specific medical research and provide expertise in this area , 154 , 904 animal be involve in breach of animal use licence condition in 2023 . breach include non - compliance , adverse welfare outcome , failure to provide adequate care and failure to provide food and water , in some case for up to six day . an estimated 92 % of drug fail in human clinical trial even though they have pass pre - clinical test , include animal test . we already know that our body be very different to those of other specie and that animal be not a reliable testing method — a simple example be the number of food that be poisonous to animal but not to human , such as chocolate , which be poisonous to dog . one example of that failure be the case of sepsis , a condition that kill 48 , 000 people in the UK every year . researcher rely on test on mouse , yet hundred of drug that have pass test on mouse have go on to fail in human trial , demonstrate the unsurprising fact that sepsis in human be different to sepsis in mouse . researcher from Stanford and Harvard have show that the genetic response to inflammation in mouse be profoundly different from those in human , so why do we continue to undertake this horrific testing ? I could describe the process of induce sepsis in mouse — I have actually write it out for this debate — but it be extremely distressing , and many would find it very upsetting . I suggest that any Member interested in find out what define a severe animal experiment should look it up . it be , indeed , truly horrific . many other disease model have a history of poor translatability in human , such as sepsis , as we have just hear , or type 2 diabete , which could be prime candidate for phase in more human - relevant model . an example from many year ago be thalidomide , which be test and test on mouse , and cause no problem whatsoever ; however , when take by pregnant woman , many baby be bear without limb , and with other problem . when that drug be test on mouse , it have no impact whatsoever on the baby mouse when they be bear . to use diabete as an example , rodent differ from human on every tier of glucose regulation , yet they be still use in experiment rather than relevant human - base method . the labour manifesto commit the Government to partner with scientist , industry and civil society to phase out animal in medical testing . science be — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) science be show we that non - animal method be effective , more relevant and more accurate to the human body . innovative technology know as new - approach methodology can effectively and safely replace animal experiment . to achieve this , there be a critical need for a robust timetable to be introduce . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s update on the road map that will get we there . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) for open this important debate , and I thank all hon . member for their contribution . we appreciate that the use of animal in medical research stir the strong emotional instinct of many people across the UK , include many colleague here . the day when we can finally bring an end to animal testing can not come soon enough . sadly , however , that day be not here yet . phase out animal testing have to be do in lockstep with the development of safe , accurate and validate alternative . the reality be that the technology be not yet advanced enough for alternative method to completely replace the use of animal . consequently , the carefully regulate use of animal remain necessary to protect human and the wide environment . animal testing continue to be require by international agreement , which all global medicine regulator follow , include the UK ' s Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . such testing be regulate through the Animals ( Scientific Procedures ) Act 1986 , know as ASPA . the Act specify that animal can only be use in science for specific , limited purpose where there be no alternative , where the number of animal use be the minimum need to achieve the scientific benefit , and where the potential harm to the animal be limit to the absolute minimum . this be know as the three r : replacement , reduction and refinement . the system also include a three - tier system of licensing that license each establishment , project and individual involve in perform regulated procedure involve animal . new technology include AI , as refer to by colleague , do offer potentially revolutionary way to create alternative technology . that be why our manifesto commit we to partner with scientist , industry and civil society as we work towards the phasing out of animal testing . as the first step , we will publish a strategy later this year lay out how the Government will support the development , validation and uptake of alternative method , and official be work on this as we speak . the strategy will set out how we will create a research and innovation system that replace animal with alternative method wherever possible and that place the UK at the forefront of international effort to drive this agenda . I be proud to say that the UK be already world - lead in the development of alternative method , and we be keen to utilise this technology as much as possible . do the Minister know whether there will be timeline for that strategy ? be there likely to be date and milestone that we be work towards , or just a generic description of the direction of travel ? the road map will set out how we can get to a place where we can phase out animal testing . I can not set out date and what the road map will include , but a huge amount of investment be go into many of the project that have be mention — hopefully that will all be include in the road map . as colleague have say , where other nation be develop new way to phase out animal testing , we will look into those and see where we can replicate they . we be closely follow development in Europe and the US , and we work closely with both the Food and Drug Administration and our european colleague on this matter . currently , the Government support the development and dissemination of the three r through UK Research and Innovation . that be primarily achieve through funding of the NC3Rs , which work nationally and internationally to drive the uptake of alternative technology and to ensure that advance be reflect in policy , practice and regulation on animal testing . since its launch in 2004 , it have commit over £ 100 million through its research , innovation and early career award to provide new three r approach for scientist in academia and industry to use . that be only part of our support . many ukri programme , include research on organoid , cell behaviour and AI , may eventually lead to the development of non - animal testing method , but they be not categorise as such because they be basic research at the moment . the Government have also provide more than £ 6 million of funding for seven centre of excellence for regulatory science and innovation to help drive advancement in healthcare . the in - silico CERSI , lead by the University of Manchester , aim to support the use of computational technique to test and develop medical product . to be clear , we want to replace the use of animal in scientific procedure with alternative where we can , but for now the carefully regulate use of animal in scientific research remain necessary if we be to protect human and the wide environment . I thank hon . member once again for their insightful contribution to the debate . I look forward to we work together go forward . question put and agree to . House adjourn .