I be very proud that more than 4 , 000 student now have t - level on their cv . in the summer , 3 , 190 student complete their t - level with a pass or above , mean that we have a pass rate of 90 . 5 % before factor in remarking and retake . we will publish a t - level action plan with more information early next year . not content with be in the anti - apprenticeship party , give her plan to weaken the apprenticeship levy and halve the number of apprenticeship , the hon . Lady be also take on the mantle of t - level denier . we have 18 t - level ; we have , as I mention , a 90 . 5 % pass rate ; we have 10 , 000 student do our t - level programme ; and we expect the datum that we will release early next year to show that many thousand more student be do the t - level programme . I be very proud of our t - level programme . I know that the hon . Lady will be eat mince pie at Christmas , but I suggest that early next year she may be eat humble pie , because our t - level programme be something to be proud of . in October , the Government announce the allocation of £ 289 million of start - up funding to local authority for wraparound care , which we know support parent to work , as well as have the potential to improve attainment , engagement and attendance . we be invest £ 2 . 6 billion to transform the special educational need and alternative provision system . that have include a 36 % increase in funding to Birmingham , where the timeliness of ehcp have be get well each year between 2020 and 2022 . as I say to the hon . Lady , we have something like 689 , 000 international student and our target be 600 , 000 a year . we be work very closely with Sir Steve Smith . we want to diversify to a whole range of different country to advertise ourselves to international student but , as I say , the trend be good . the hundred of thousand of international student who be here benefit our economy and provide an important source of income for university . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question . I be absolutely committed to the target of 600 , 000 . as I say in response to the previous question , we have surpass that , with well over 680 , 000 student . as I say , they be of benefit to our university and our economy , and they be a very important source of income for all our high education institution .