with permission , I would like to make a statement about the Government ' s support for film making in the UK . Film be one of the great british success story of the last 30 year . ever since Gordon Brown create the film tax credit back in 2007 , this amazing industry have create job and growth across the UK and fly the flag for british creativity across the world . our Government have huge ambition for the film sector , and today we be introduce secondary legislation that will put rocket booster under this grow industry and unlock the potential of our incredible independent film sector . the UK have some special advantage that give we a natural competitive edge . thank to the creativity and imagination of our author , playwright and publisher , we have some of the good story to tell and take to the screen , help by some of the good story teller in the world — the director , scriptwriter and cinematographer — and against some of the most incredible backdrop , from the Welsh valley to the north - east coastline , as well as act talent that be second to none and that breathe life into those story . our film industry be one of our great economic and cultural success story . it be worth £ 1 . 36 billion and employ more than 195 , 000 people , and it have create true icon such as James Bond , Harry Potter and my personal favourite , Paddington Bear . our Government have three aim for our film industry . first , we want to attract the investment for UK film maker to make the good film in the world . secondly , we want UK audience to see film that reflect their life and their community . that mean tell a wide diversity of british story that draw on the rich cultural inheritance in every region and nation . thirdly , we want the UK to be the good place in the world to make film , because we have the right ingredient : the investment , the talent , the technical skill , the sound stage , the creative imagination , and the right fiscal and regulatory environment . that be why this Government will do everything in our power to ensure that the fiscal and regulatory environment match the ambition of film maker and studio around the world . we want they to invest in great british film making . however , the key to maintain that advantage be an internationally competitive tax regime , and I think that be beyond party politic . as member will know , tax incentive for film be first introduce by the last Labour Government in 2007 , and the previous Conservative Government follow suit with the announcement of a plan UK independent film tax credit in the last spring Budget . we have hear loud and clear the industry ' s concern that any further delay to introduce this secondary legislation , even to the end of the month , may mean that investment in UK independent film be lose . so I be glad to announce that we have today lay the necessary statutory instrument , under the negative process , for the independent film tax credit to take effect . it mean that eligible film with a budget of up to £ 23 . 5 million can claim enhance audiovisual expenditure credit at a rate of 53 % on their qualifying expenditure up to £ 15 million . that be high than the standard 34 % rate for other film . the regulation set out the eligibility criterion for film production company , who can apply from 30 October . this government do not underestimate how important this tax credit be . big blockbuster movie be an important part of the mix , but independent film be every bit as important , both for the british talent that they allow to shine and for the untold story that they bring into the spotlight . too often , people do not see themselves and their community reflect in the story we tell ourselves about ourselves as a nation , and this Government be determined that will change . later today , the 68th London film festival will open with the world premiere of " Blitz " , write , direct and produce by one of our most successful british director , Steve McQueen . Set in England during world war two , it be an example of exactly what film can do . it bring together top talent on screen and off , and it showcase the nation ' s history through storytelling and highlight on screen our beautiful country , from London ' s east end to hull ' s old town . our independent sector have produce film such as " Pride " , " the King ' s Speech " and " bend it like Beckham " , which show our heritage , our community and our culture to the world and act as a springboard from the grassroot for world - class UK talent on screen and behind the scene . while major film production have flourish , small - budget independent film have not receive sufficient support over the past decade . they face multiple challenge , include rise production cost , crew shortage and decline revenue , which have hamper the growth of this vital sector . while too much of our creative industry have traditionally be concentrate in just one part of our country , independent film thrive everywhere , give the chance . this uplift will not only boost creativity but create job , growth and investment in every nation and region . through that , we will help the independent film sector to reach its full potential . while the uplift have be design to support and target british independent film maker , I be glad to say that it be also open to qualify official co - production , because film and television co - production be a key way in which the UK increase its cultural tie and collaboration with Europe and the rest of the world . this government will go far still to support this critical industry . the skill shortage that have be ignore for too long act as a break on the ambition of this incredible sector . that be why this Government launch Skills England to bring about the skill we need for a decade of national renewal of our community , business and country . we will focus apprenticeship once more on young people to set they up to succeed and to help fill the 25 , 000 vacancy in the creative sector . the Secretary of State for Education be overhaul the apprenticeship levy to provide well career opportunity for young people , build on the success of exist high - quality apprenticeship in the creative industry , and we be work closely with Skills England to ensure that the new flexibility announce by the Prime Minister last month offer short apprenticeship and an improved offer for a creative skill pathway for young people embark on career in this sector . every child should have the chance to live a rich , large life and to consider a career in the art . in addition , the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be keep the Government ' s mission to deliver economic growth at front of mind when make decision about planning application . I be pleased to announce to the House that yesterday MHCLG recover an application for planning permission for Marlow film studio in Buckinghamshire . the merit of that application will now be review by its Ministers in detail before they reach a decision . finally , next week the Government will host the international investment summit , where industry leader , investor and business from across the world will come together to put the UK back at the global table and to kick - start a decade of economic renewal . as a critical part of that , our creative industry will be at the summit ' s heart . this Government be commit to ensure that the UK be a first - choice destination for film production . we be back up those word with action today . Britain be open for business , and creativity be back at its heart . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the hon . Lady for her warm word of welcome at the beginning . I think that be perhaps the beginning and end of the consensus that we might be able to reach today . if I may , I will highlight a few area where we be in agreement . first , I think we be in agreement that today ' s announcement be a thoroughly good thing for the british film industry . secondly , I think we be in agreement that a number of the initiative that this Government be take forward — include the football Bill that she reference and various other issue relate to the competitiveness of our creative industry on the global stage — be welcome and should receive cross - party support . the hon . Lady mention the fact that the Conservative Government bring in this independent film tax credit at the last Budget . if that be true , we would not be need to legislate today . the truth be that the Conservative Government do what the Conservative Government do for 14 year : they talk a good game and then do absolutely nothing to deliver for the people of this country . she say that we vote against film tax credit , but the truth , as she well know , be that we do not vote against they . they be our idea and our initiative in 2007 . in fact , it be her party that oppose they in the first place . if they have have their way in 2007 , our british film industry would not be where it be today , which be rival Hollywood as one of the good film industry in the world . she know full well that we support every one of the measure that , after year of oppose they — they have to be drag kick and scream by the film industry — the Conservatives belatedly come to support . she also know that we vote against successive Conservative Finance Bills because , as we be discover now that we have have a chance to open the book , there be no money attach to any of the measure . it be a hoax and a con trick practise on the british people . I have a great deal of respect for the hon . Lady , and I be grateful to she not just for her welcome today and her warm word but for the support that she and other on the Opposition Benches have give I and the team to take up the mantle . but if I have leave a sector with 25 , 000 vacancy that it could not fill , a legacy of creativity be erase from our community and our classroom and , most of all , a £ 22 billion economic black hole that work - class people be pay the price for up and down the country — all of that — and then have such a resounding rejection from the electorate only a few month ago , I would be speak with a little bit more humility from the Dispatch Box .