Oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Biodiversity Recovery what step he be take to promote biodiversity recovery . this Government be determined to halt and reverse the trend of nature loss in our country and end the cycle of destroy , regret and restore . we be invest £ 400 million in tree planting and peatland restoration . we have announce a new nature restoration fund and set out plan to end the use of neonicotinoid pesticide that harm our precious pollinator . I be grateful to the Minister for her reply . the UK be one of the most nature - deplete nation on this planet . the " State of Nature Report 2023 " indicate that up to one in six UK specie face the risk of extinction . the Minister ' s reply be very encouraging , but just last week the Chancellor , promote the Government ' s growth agenda , urge we to " stop worry about bat and newts . " if it really do come to that , who speak for the Government , and whose side be the Minister on — the Chancellor or threaten wildlife ? we have to end the false dichotomy between create place for people and create place for nature . the previous Government introduce biodiversity net gain , which mean that when a developer build somewhere , they must deliver a 10 % BNG for nature . that be in its early stage , after just a year , but we be look to see how it might be extend . with the nature restoration fund , we have establish a more efficient and effective way to allow obligation relate to our most important site and specie to be discharge at scale , which have the great environmental benefit and be a win - win for nature and people . I congratulate the Minister on announce our plan to ban bee - kill pesticide . that be welcome across Monmouthshire , particularly by our fantastic charity base in Monmouth , Bees for Development . do she agree that where the Conservatives fail , this Government will restore nature and biodiversity for future generation ? I do agree , and I pay tribute to the people who be speak for the bee in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we will deliver 30 by 30 on land in England . that mean that we will protect and preserve 30 % of our land for nature and long - term conservation and management as part of our contribution to international target . I call the shadow Minister . when we think it could not get any bad , the Government roll out their late attack on our farming community and UK food production , set the direction that they want to replace food production , with around 20 % of farmland be dedicate to solar farm , tree planting , biodiversity offset and wildlife habitat , all to meet green target . the figure be astonishing , with the Government propose to take well over 1 million hectare out of food production . the economic analysis already predict that well over 12 , 000 farm will be lose within a generation as a result of this Government ' s policy . will the Minister acknowledge that hard - work farmer be be catch in the crossfire in this Government ' s dash towards green target , and do she recognise the fear among our farmer that their policy amount not to food security but food lunacy ? that be a lot of sound and fury , but this be something the Conservatives be work on in government . this have shade of the deposit return scheme , which be essentially the hon . Gentleman ' s legislation , but those on the shadow Front Bench be absent without leave when it come to the vote . we have publish a consultation on the land use framework . it have be welcome by the National Farmers Union and by farmer for give certainty and security — something that be sadly lack from the previous Government . Water Company executive : accountability what step he be take to increase the accountability of water company executive for service failure . I thank my hon . friend for his service on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill Committee . he will know that the Bill create new power for the regulator , include ban the payment of unjustified bonus for water boss whose company fail to meet environmental standard and ensure that imprisonment be a sentencing option where environmental regulator be obstruct . that will hold water company and their executive to account . in addition , we be double compensation for poor service to hold water company to account for failure in their service delivery . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . many of my constituent in Southampton Itchen have write to I , outrage at the 53 % bill increase that Southern Water be propose at a time when it and other continue to pollute our river at an alarming rate . this be simply become a national scandal . as part of the work of the come independent water review , will the Secretary of State ensure that water company get back to deliver reliable service for customer , rather than line the pocket of executive and shareholder ? my hon . friend make an important point . bill , of course , be go up because the previous Government do nothing as our sewerage infrastructure crumble and million of pound be allow to be divert to pay for bonus and dividend instead of investment . this Government have ringfence the money earmark for infrastructure so that this scandal can never happen again . Essex and Suffolk Water have issue a moratorium on commercial business pull water out of the ground , which it say be due to the Environment Agency . the problem be that water - intensive business need water to grow . aspall in my constituency have £ 10 million of investment ready to go to grow its cidery . without access to water , it can not make that investment . if this government be serious about go for growth , will the Minister meet I to find a solution to the moratorium so that we can move forward ? I be more than happy to ask the Minister for water , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , to meet the hon . Gentleman , who raise an important point . I have ask Sir Jon Cunliffe to look at how we can well manage this as part of the work he be lead . River Health what step he be take to help reduce sewage in river . what step he be take to help improve the health of river . the previous Government do nothing as water company discharge record level of sewage into our waterway . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill will create new power , include ban water company that pollute from pay bonus , and bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker . Ofwat have confirm a record £ 104 billion investment to fix our break water infrastructure and end the Tory sewage scandal once and for all . in Harrogate and Knaresborough , the River Nidd regularly overflow with sewage . when I visit the Killinghall sewage treatment work last year , a key thing that come to light be that water company be put in infrastructure to manage the current sewage issue , rather than future - proofing . what step will the Minister take to ensure we build sewage work that meet both current and future demand ? the money announce in Ofwat ' s final determination before Christmas will create record level of investment in our water system to do precisely what the hon . Gentleman say , deal with the current sewage problem while also put in place the infrastructure to manage and meet future demand . as the Secretary of State know , North Herefordshire be badly affect by water pollution , with devastating effect for the local economy . he also know that agricultural pollution , not sewage , be the main problem in my constituency . he do not mention that in his answer , so I respectfully remind he yet again that the Government need to tackle agricultural pollution and sewage pollution in a join - up way . we know the solution — order . I apologise , Mr Speaker . I will get to my point . as the Minister do not answer the first part of the question , I have to raise it . in North Herefordshire , we know that the solution require farmer , regulator and environmental organisation to take action together . will the Secretary of State now commit the funding need to take forward the Wye catchment plan , and will he visit North Herefordshire with I ? order . I think the Minister have hear the question . the hon . Lady make an important point . our farming road map will look at how we can reduce run - off from agriculture , which be a major source of pollution in our waterway . we be look at how we can move to catchment - base model , include for the Wye , where a great deal of important work have already be do , so that we can more effectively tackle all the source of pollution that be cause such trouble for our waterway . Flood Preparedness Projects what step his Department be take to support flood preparedness project . what step he be take to support flood preparedness project . the first duty of any Government be to protect our citizen , so we be invest a record £ 2 . 65 billion over two year in building , maintain and upgrade flood defence , which will protect 66 , 500 property across England . across my constituency of Guildford , the local flood forum work tirelessly , bring together agency and resident to address the grow concern they have about flooding . will the Minister provide detail on how the Government will ensure that constituency like mine , which often miss out because they be semi - rural and urban , get the funding they need to address current flooding issue ? how can we mitigate the grow flooding issue across Guildford in a holistic and sustainable way ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight that under the previous funding formula , rural community often miss out on the defence they desperately need . we have set out plan to consult on a new formula that be go to be announce fairly shortly , and she will be very welcome to contribute to that . will the Minister confirm what portion of the £ 2 . 6 billion allocate to flood preparedness will be use in my constituency of Maidenhead , specifically to protect the village of Hurley and Cookham ? I think I will be get a lot of question like this today , Mr Speaker . we will announce where the 31 project will be by the end of March . we will also be look at where we have have to put money into maintenance and upgrading defence . we be leave with flood defence in their bad state on record because of a complete dereliction of duty by the previous Government , so we have have to prioritise maintenance as well as build new defence , but I be hope that the hon . Gentleman will not have to wait too long . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . my hon . friend the Minister and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State deserve great credit for attract the large investment that they have secure , but once they have finish the lap of honour , they will be aware that this be the first step up the mountain . the Minister be right that the Government have inherit flood defence that be in an appalling state , and the late estimate show that as many as 6 million house be at risk of flooding . I call on she to get on with the flood improvement that we demand in Chesterfield . first , will she tell we more about how she will ensure the money will be spend wisely ? secondly , how will she ensure that the Treasury understand that this be not a one - year commitment , but something that we will need for the rest of this term in office ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and may I congratulate he on his recent engagement ? he be right to point out the importance of money be spend wisely now to save money in the future . there be a couple of interesting factor : every £ 1 we spend on maintenance of flood defence save £ 13 in damage prevention , and every £ 1 we spend on new defence save £ 5 in damage prevention . those be important statistic that I use frequently in negotiation about future spending review with Treasury official . in the north of my constituency , between the scottish border and Hadrian ' s wall , lie the debatable land , but in the centre of Carlisle lie a forget land along the River Caldew . it be forget because of the incompetence of the Conservatives , who fail to deliver the flood defence along the Caldew that be promise after Carlisle be devastate in 2015 . will the Minister remember the forget land of Carlisle ? my hon . friend make a persuasive case , as she have do at every oral question time we have have so far . she be right to highlight the fact that not only do the previous Government leave our defence in the bad state on record , but they fail to spend some of the money that have be allocate . this government be have to deal with that , along with the many other issue we be clean up . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yet another wet winter across Somerset highlight the need for the Government to urgently deliver solution to mitigate the impact of flooding on farmland and protect domestic food production . the Brue headwater multi - benefit project , facilitate by the Farming and Wildlife Advisory Group South West , be work with farmer and landowner in Bruton , Charlton Musgrove and Wincanton to address flooding issue and to hold workshop that focus on natural flood management , to slow the flow of water across the upper Brue , thus reduce flooding , sediment run - off and the associated pollution of water - course . despite those effort , many farmer in the catchment , and indeed the county and the country , be angry at the level of inundation of land that could be prevent by well flood management . how will the Minister work to support farmer , build flood resilience and protect food security ? the hon . Lady be right to point out how angry farmer be and how they feel they have be let down by the previous Government on flood defence . the previous formula allocate funding only base on number of property protect and pay little regard to rural area . she also mention one of my favourite theme : natural flood management . we recently hold a roundtable on that , with representative from the NFU and the Country Land and Business Association , to talk about how we can well protect our rural area in a more nature - friendly way . Cat Breeding : regulation whether he plan to regulate the breeding of cat . under the Animal Welfare ( Licensing of Activities involve Animals ) ( England ) Regulations 2018 , anyone in the business of breed and sell cat as pet need to have a valid licence issue by their local authority , and licensee must meet strict statutory minimum welfare standard , which be enforce by local authority . as a proud cat dad to two cat , one of which be beat to the title of Purr Minister by Attlee , Mr Speaker ' s cat , it have amaze I to find out that the 2018 regulation on animal breeding focus merely on dog and not cat breeding . can the Minister therefore assure I that he will look at update the regulation to include cat ? I thank the hon . member for his question and for his reference . the Animal Welfare Committee have provide its opinion on the welfare implication of current and emergent feline breeding practice , and we will be look at those and come back with measure in future . in pass , may I pay tribute to organisation such as Cats Protection , which do such wonderful work ? I be tell that it recently point the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , to her new kitten , Lily and Meglatron . there be 12 . 5 million cat owner in the UK , and hundred of thousand of cat be kill on the road every year . the previous Government agree that it would be right to include cat in the Road Safety Act 2006 , but they simply do not do it . this mean that cat be regularly hit and , because there be no legal duty to report it , be just scoop to the side of the road . do the Minister agree that this be something that we should do to bring parity to cat and dog when it come to safety on the road ? this be an issue that have be widely discuss . our advice be that it would be difficult to enforce in practice , but I fully recognise the distress and concern that it cause . agriculture sector : growth what step his Department be take to help support growth in the agriculture sector . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the Secretary of State set out our vision to boost farmer ’ profitability and sustainability in our plan for change when he speak to the 2025 Oxford farming conference . that include a cast - iron commitment to food security , a £ 5 billion agricultural budget over the next two year , a boost to profitability by make the supply chain fairer and protect farmer in trade deal . farmer in West Dorset be struggle with rise cost , the regulatory burden , market instability and supermarket pay unsustainably low price for what they produce . this force many farmer to diversify away from food production in order to survive . give the vital role that farm play in both our rural economy and in food security , what specific measure will the Government introduce to stop the need for diversification and ensure that farming remain a financially viable and attractive industry for the next generation of West Dorset farmer ? the hon . Gentleman make an important set of point , but I point he to the speech that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State make at Oxford , because he make the very strong point that farming need to get a well return for the hard work that farmer do . alongside that , diversification be important to allow people to get through the difficult time , which inevitably come up in a cyclical business such as farming . the increase demand for biofuel feedstock offer a huge opportunity for agriculture , particularly in feedstock for sustainable aviation fuel . with the welcome SAF mandate and revenue certainty mechanism , there be a real chance for growth in this area , especially if we support rapid conversion at Grangemouth . what step be the Minister take to secure a scalable supply of feedstock , and how he will remove barrier to their use in the production of SAF ? my hon . friend make a very important point , but we need to make sure that we get the right balance between produce food and use our land for other purpose . that be why it be so important that a land use framework be bring forward . we have a consultation go on for the next 12 week , and I be sure that he and other will contribute to it . I call the shadow Minister . to have growth in agriculture we need healthy animal , and for that , farm need biosecurity . crucial to that be the Animal and Plant Health Agency , which deserve our thank in these challenging time . with the alarming recent foot and mouth outbreak in Germany , avian influenza again surge , bluetongue still with we and african swine fever at our doorstep , we must act urgently . please can the Government release the far necessary £ 1 . 4 billion to redevelop the APHA headquarters in Weybridge ? the programme be start under the Conservatives , with £ 1 . 2 billion commit in 2020 . for the sake of agriculture , animal health , rural mental health , biosecurity and national security , please will the Minister act now ? the hon . Gentleman make an important set of point about the biosecurity need to protect our country . over the past few week we have have a series of question across the Dispatch Box about the foot and mouth outbreak in Germany and avian influenza . we have have this discussion about the investment in Weybridge , and I be delighted that this Government have bring forward a £ 280 million investment there . of course , we need to do more in future , but what on earth be the previous Government do over the past 14 year ? budget : impact on Farmers what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on business confidence among farmer . the truth be that confidence among farmer have be far too low for far too long . that be why this Government be set out the sustainable long - term plan for farming . again , I point people to the Secretary of State ' s address at the Oxford farming conference . we will continue to progress our priority over the come week . farmer across Devon be rightly concerned about Labour ' s plan change to agricultural property relief and business property relief , particularly the serious impact on family farm and on the sustainability of rural community . in early December I write to the Secretary of State to invite he to meet Devon ' s farming community , at an event to be organise in conjunction with the NFU in Devon , to provide clarity on the policy ' objective and to address their concern . I be yet to receive a response . I ask he directly now : will he come to Devon , meet local farmer , and explain how these policy will not undermine their livelihood and the future of british farming ? I thank the hon . member for his question , which be one that I have be ask at the Dispatch Box many time over the past few week . I have be to meet farmer in Cumbria , and last week I meet farmer in south Cambridgeshire . I would love to meet farmer in Devon , so I be happy to add he to the list for my grand tour across the country to reassure people that there be a strong plan to ensure that farmer have a viable future , which they do not have under the last government . on that point , when minister make such tour , I hope that they will ensure that local mp be make aware of the fact , because that do not happen in my case . Metal recycling : regulation what step he be take to improve the regulation of metal recycling business . metal recycler be regulate by local authority and the Environment Agency and must meet specific treatment standard . we be ensure that online marketplace and vape producer contribute fairly towards the cost of recycle waste electrical , include metal component , and the sale of disposable vape will be ban from 1 June . six time in the past 12 month , Hitchin have have to endure repeat fire in industrial estate often trigger by lithium - ion battery . it be clear that we need much tough regulation to ensure the safety of those site and , give the inherent risk that their business now pose , consideration of whether a time - limit licensing scheme would well enable local authority to ensure that their location remain appropriate with evolve land use . will the Minister meet I to ensure that we can make progress on this important issue ? I be always happy to meet my hon . friend . battery - relate fire risk life , livelihood and the environment . the Environment Agency be currently review approximately 2 , 000 metal recycling permit . the Hitchin shredder site be midway through its review , and a revise permit will be issue shortly . the Environment Agency have also produce new regulatory guidance on metal shredding and will consult on guidance for waste battery in the spring . in Northern Ireland we be fortunate to have fairly good regulation of metal recycling business . ard and North Down borough council , for example , do that exceptionally well . other business across my borough , and indeed in Belfast and far afield in Northern Ireland , do the same . I know that the Minister love go to Northern Ireland . have she have an opportunity to speak to the relevant Minister in the Northern Ireland Executive to discuss what we be do to help here ? the hon . Gentleman know my affection and my origin in County Fermanagh , the lakeland county . I would be happy to talk to Minister Muir about what we can learn in England from the good practice that seem to be happen in Northern Ireland . public procurement : british Produce what step he be take to encourage public body to purchase british produce . over recent week we have announce a series of reform deliver on the Government ' s new deal for farmer , ensure that , in line with World Trade Organisation rule and domestic procurement rule , we can ensure that procurement be use to back british farmer . farmer and grower in my constituency want to sell to hospital and school , but over the past few year they have find that increasingly difficult , not least because of the procurement chapter in the trade agreement that be conclude by the Conservative Government . will my hon . friend confirm that , under this government , grower and farmer will be able to sell to public body and play their part in keep Britain feed ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; there be a real opportunity here , with £ 5 billion of purchase power in the public sector , so we be look at way of ensure that happen . it be a real surprise for we to find that the previous Government have not even measure the amount that be be buy — that be the starting point . we will start to make that happen , and we will get that huge opportunity for british farmer . I welcome the Government ' s focus in this area . one of the barrier that small agricultural business in my constituency face in supply the public sector be the complexity of the contracting process . the Crown Commercial Service make significant improvement to its portal last year , but I urge the ministerial team to build on that progress to make it easy , particularly for small company , to provide food to the public sector . ultimately , we all want to see more of that . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman not only for his question , but for his interest in and attendance at DEFRA question — we be honour to have he here . I be very happy to look at what he suggest and to work towards make those proposal work . we know that it be complicated within World Trade Organisation rule , but there be a real prize to be have here . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the first role of any Government be to protect their citizen . yesterday we announce that we be commit a record £ 2 . 65 billion to build and maintain around 1 , 000 flood defence , to protect life , home and business — a 26 % uplift per annum on what the previous Government be spend . we be immediately use £ 140 million to unblock over 30 project that be ready for delivery but stall under the previous Government . we be launch a consultation to update the funding formula so that we can speed up new scheme and ensure that rural and coastal community be properly include . the previous Government leave our flood defence in the bad condition ever record . this government will put they right . level of E . coli and faecal matter in the River Itchen remain disgustingly high . I commend the friend of the Itchen Estuary group for their work to highlight the issue . like I , they want designate bathing water status in order to protect the river , so will the Secretary of State update we on when that application process will open again and on what change we can expect ? I pay tribute to the friend of the Itchen Estuary for their advocacy on this important issue . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs run a consultation on reform to the Bathing Water Regulations 2013 , which close on 23 December 2024 . we be currently analyse the response and consider how any propose change may impact the application and designation process , and we will of course respond fully in due course . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the head of the Dover Port Health Authority warn the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee this week that if funding be not secure with seven week , food security check at the border will be stop . that will mean unchecked and potentially dangerous meat appear on supermarket shelf and in restaurant at a time when there be foot and mouth disease in Germany . when will the Secretary of State protect our border and confirm that funding ? the National Farmers Union and other interested party have quite rightly raise concern about the discovery of foot and mouth disease in Germany . we be relieve that there have not be a further spread of that outbreak , but we be take all appropriate measure at the border to ensure that this country remain safe in term of biosecurity , and we will continue to monitor the situation and take appropriate action to ensure that there can be no repeat of what happen around 20 year ago , when a foot and mouth outbreak in this country devastate farming and cost the economy a total of £ 14 billion . I do not think the Secretary of State either understand my question or know the answer , because I ask he when he will confirm the funding . compare this relaxed approach with the Prime Minister ' s seem desperation to pay more than the entire DEFRA budget to surrender the Chagos island . do the Secretary of State really support tax british farming family for die , slash winter fuel payment for rural pensioner , and hike taxis on rural business to pay £ 9 billion to a foreign Government on some dodgy legal advice from Labour lawyer ? if the shadow Secretary of State really care about value for money , she would not have waste £ 500 , 000 on relocate her office in the Department of Health , a project that be purely about her own personal vanity . the people of Fleetwood , Thornton and beyond have suffer from toxic stench for the past 12 month . last night be extremely unpleasant , with resident report nosebleed , breathing problem , headache and vomit this morning . the stench be due to the mismanagement of the local Jameson Road landfill site . despite multiple intervention by the Environment Agency , include a six - week closure , the smell be now as bad as ever , if not bad . order . these be topical question — please get to the question . what can the Government do to ensure that the Environment Agency have much strong power to deal with landfill site that bring daily misery to resident , such as those live in my constituency ? my heart go out to my hon . friend ' s constituent , who be clearly suffer terrible public health consequence from the stink at that site . there be an ongoing investigation into the cause of odour issue that have impact the community in Fleetwood , which escalate in January 2024 . the Environment Agency have tell I that it expect odour issue to reduce within the next seven day . should that not occur , it will consider any and all appropriate regulatory intervention to reduce the impact on the community . it have also launch — order . we only have four minute . the area around Heathrow have breach nitrogen dioxide legal limit for year now , so what assessment have the Environment Secretary make of the impact on air quality of both the additional flight and the additional vehicle travel to and from Heathrow as a result of a third runway ? I thank the hon . Lady for her important question . the Government be develop a series of intervention to reduce emission , so that everybody ' s exposure to air pollution be reduce . we be also conduct a comprehensive review of how we communicate air quality information , to ensure that member of the public and vulnerable group have the information they need to protect themselves and understand the impact on air quality . of course , no further decision have be make regard other development . too many community , include in Huddersfield , be force to deal with persistent fly - tipping and litter in their street and neighbourhood , and resident be understandably feed up with it . what support be the Government provide to local area to ensure that they have the resource they need to prevent and tackle persistent fly - tipping ? I visit a fly - tipping site in Lichfield where people have be trap in their home . fly - tipping blight community , harm wildlife and place huge cost on taxpayer and business . council deal with over a million incident in 2022 - 23 , up 10 % on three year ago . I do not believe that the waste carrier , broker and dealer regime be fit for purpose , so I have ask official to look at how we strengthen that regime to crack down on waste criminal . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . thoroughbred horse be high - health , high - welfare animal , and they should be treat as such to allow cross - border travel without physical border check . can the Minister commit today to recognise their high - health status , put welfare first and reduce this barrier to trade ? my near neighbour raise an important point — this be a very high - value sector . a commitment be make to designate thoroughbred horse as high - health animal as part of the border target operating model , and we will provide an update on the timeline for implementation by the end of the summer . Meur ras ha myttin da , Mr Speaker . many of my constituent in Hayle have become increasingly concerned about the dredging of sand around Hayle harbour and the potential environmental damage . we desperately need a solution that work for resident and the environment and maintain our vitally important harbour . will the Minister meet I as a matter of urgency to discuss how the Government and the Environment Agency will support all local stakeholder to establish a long - term sand management and erosion plan in Hayle ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue and for the work he be do in championing what be obviously a crucial issue for his resident . I would of course be happy to meet he . constituent in Witney be extremely distressed to receive letter this week from Thames Water say that their bill be go up by £ 19 a month from April , put more pressure on household bill . do the Minister think that be acceptable , give that the restructure plan in the High Court be put £ 800 million to £ 900 million of interest expense on to this company — order . this be sub judice , and the hon . member should not go into the actual detail of the application before the Court at the moment . can the Minister say anything ? if not , we will have to move on . over a decade ago , planning permission be give to build an incinerator on the outskirt of Corby . that location now have thousand of house , a school and a nursery . frankly , it be now in the heart of the community and no long on the outskirt . give that the incinerator be yet to be build , do the Minister agree with I that , in the light of the crackdown on waste incinerator , the planning application should be look at again and the incinerator move ? it be not appropriate for I to comment on a specific planning permission case , but I do encourage those develop energy - from - waste facility , include those that already have permission , to consider the evidence that DEFRA publish over the recess , the new standard that we have introduce and the Government ' s circular economy opportunity when determine whether their facility be still require . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . may I take the Secretary of State back to the subject of illegal meat import ? on Tuesday the Select Committee be tell that at Dover this work , which cover only 20 % of arrival , be be do in live lane , despite the fact that there be a border control post at Dover that be sit unused , and the funding for Dover Port Health Authority be due to expire at the end of March . can we at the very least sort out the financing of this for the next financial year ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . the issue at Dover be significant and long - running . the funding be not resolve ahead of the general election , and there be an ongoing discussion . we be very aware of the challenge , but we be on it , and we will make sure that we be talk to those at Dover Port Health Authority . rural community such as Marchington , Draycot and Rolleston have be suffer with flooding for many year , with funding often go to area with large population . can the Minister set out what step she have take to ensure that rural community be not leave out of flood protection funding ? I thank my hon . friend , who be right to highlight how the previous flooding formula discriminate against rural community because it be base purely on the number of property protect , not on create the right solution in the right area . that be exactly why we wish to reform the formula , and we will be announce a consultation very shortly . give that the Office for Budget Responsibility refuse to endorse the £ 22 billion black hole figure — in fact , it refuse to say that there be any black hole at all — will the Secretary of State tell the House what possible justification there can be for the removal of agricultural property relief , which will do untold damage to the growth prospect of family farm in my constituency and across the country ? the right hon . member be fully aware of the appalling state the public finance be leave in at the end of his government . this Government have have to take very difficult decision to balance the finance so we can get growth that will benefit the entire economy , include the farming sector , which be on its knee after 14 year of conservative rule . Solicitor General the Solicitor General be ask — CPS Prosecutors what step she be take to ensure adequate number of Crown Prosecution Service prosecutor . I would like to start by congratulate US Attorney General Pam Bondi on her confirmation yesterday . the Attorney General and I look forward to work closely with she on our long list of share priority . CPS prosecutor perform vital work to serve the public and deliver justice for victim . we have take step to strengthen the CPS workforce , include by boost staff number in specialist rape and serious sexual assault unit , as well as by be tough on crime , support victim and restore confidence in the criminal justice system . all these thing be part of this Government ' s mission to make our street safe , and the CPS have a key role to play in that mission . will the Solicitor General join I in welcome this Government ' s increase funding of the Crown Prosecution Service for specialist sexual offence prosecution unit ? do she agree that we must continue to tackle violence against woman and girl across our nation , and will she join I in pay tribute to the dedication of our prosecutor and police on the front line who be confront these crime ? absolutely ; I be delighted to join my hon . friend in pay tribute to police and prosecutor not only in his constituency , but right across the United Kingdom . he be right to welcome the increase funding that we have secure for the CPS . our recently agree settlement will ensure that the CPS can recruit more specialist prosecutor , deliver that vital work and put those who commit these abhorrent crime behind bar . give the backlog in Crown court appearance , and the increase tide of knife crime as well as criminal activity against woman and girl , what step be the Department take to ensure that the Crown Prosecution Service be adequately provide for so that justice be see to be do in the wide community ? the hon . Member make an important point ; this Government be work very hard to do that . the settlement for the CPS that I refer to be an extra £ 49 million , and it be spend some of that on increase the number of prosecutor who be able to do the important work to which he refer . violence against Women and girl : prosecution rate what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case involve violence against woman and girl . what step she be take to help increase prosecution rate for case involve violence against woman and girl . the scale of violence against woman and girl in this country be intolerable , and the Government be treat it as the national emergency that it be . the CPS have begin secure conviction of offender who breach domestic abuse protection order — a scheme that the Government introduce in November 2024 in order well to protect victim of domestic abuse . although there be much more to be do , that be just one example of the clear action that the Government be take to meet our mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . the national conviction rate for domestic abuse case be woefully low , stand at 4 . 5 % , but the picture be even bad in rural constituency such as Ribble Valley , where the overall conviction rate be only 3 % . what do the Solicitor General regard as the unique challenge in rural area , and what step be she take to tackle they specifically ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . she be right to highlight the unique risk face by woman in rural area , include her constituency ; increase isolation can bring with it more risk . to tackle violence against woman we need to address the overall number of prosecution , which unfortunately be still far too low . that be why , work with the CPS and the police , we have bring in the domestic abuse joint justice plan — which I be pleased to say be already lead to a modest increase in referral of domestic abuse case — to improve the investigation , prosecution , and handling of domestic abuse case . in June 2024 , 60 % of rape investigation be close because the victim drop out . on top of that I have hear harrowing story from my constituent who go to court over their sexual assault , and who feel humiliate and be far traumatise by that process . what work be be do to ensure that victim of sexual violence be treat with empathy and respect during the court process ? my hon . Friend ask a pertinent question , and I be sure the whole House will be sorry to hear of the example that she raise . she be right to say that all victim ought to be treat with empathy and respect , because victim ' loss of confidence in the criminal justice undermine the entire process of justice . I be work with the CPS to ensure well support for victim in rape and serious sexual offence case , include by hire victim liaison officer in team prosecute such case . I have the pleasure of meet some of those victim liaison officer while visit the CPS in Cardiff , and I be able to hear first hand about the vital work they be do to support victim . my constituency be blight by the shocking crime of child sexual exploitation , and rebuild trust among victim in our criminal justice system be vital if victim be to come forward . recently , eight man from my constituency be sentence for the horrendous gang rape of two child and receive shockingly short sentence ; one be as low as three year . I have write to the Attorney General on this issue . do the Solicitor General agree that these weak sentence be hugely damaging trust in our justice system ? will she commit , via the Attorney General , to review they ? the example that the hon . member refer to be indeed heinous . the conduct of those who have be involve in such crime have rightly shock and appalled people right across the country . he refer to a referral to the Attorney General ' s Office , and it be therefore not appropriate for I to comment on that specific case far . I have have many victim of domestic abuse write to I , follow lengthy period of inaction from the police , the Crown Prosecution Service and other organisation , which have leave victim at risk and feel horribly anxious . how will the Minister ensure that prosecution rate improve and victim have confidence in the criminal justice system ? the hon . Member make an important point . I be sorry to hear of the example that she raise . this Government have a historic mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and we be take a series of important step to work towards the increase number of prosecution that she refer to . for example , we be introduce specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force ; work to increase referral with the recently launch domestic abuse joint justice plan ; fast - track rape case ; and introduce free independent legal adviser for victim of adult rape . I refer early to domestic abuse protection order , and the first conviction for breach of they be already be see . Serious Fraud Office : Economic Crime what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the Serious Fraud Office ' s progress on tackle economic crime . the SFO do crucial work to tackle complex fraud , bribery and corruption . I have meet senior SFO staff on multiple occasion in the past two month , and I recently visit SFO HQ to understand more about the way it be put the late technology to use in tackle economic crime and return steal fund to victim . under the new director of the SFO , the SFO have open seven new overt investigation and charge 10 defendant in case involve more than 800 victim . my hon . friend will know that fraud do not stop at the border , and resident in my Livingston constituency be incredibly concerned by the increase in fraud and economic crime and the devastating effect they can have on people ' s life . what be the UK Government do to tackle fraud in Scotland ? my hon . friend be right that fraud do not acknowledge border , particularly when it come to the increase harm associate with online fraud . that be why it be so important that the SFO work closely with the scottish law enforcement authority . in that respect , and in other , this Government be fully commit to strengthen the Union . I thank the Solicitor General for that reply . we in Northern Ireland understand that economic crime be use by paramilitary to fund their organisation and criminal group . in America , Al Capone be put in jail not for the crime he commit , but for tax evasion and financial issue . will the Attorney General target paramilitary group for their effort to raise money illegally ? the hon . Member make an important point . this Government take economic crime incredibly seriously , include when it link to the serious type of activity to which he refer . Attorney General ' s Office : Transparency and Conflicts of Interest what step she be take to increase transparency in the Attorney General ' s Office . what step she be take to manage conflict of interest in the Attorney General ' s Office . what step she be take to manage conflict of interest in the Attorney General ' s Office . the Attorney General ' s Office have a rigorous process for identify and deal with conflict and potential conflict that arise from Law officer ' former practice . as part of that process , the AGO adopt a cautious and beyond reproach threshold to any conflict or potential conflict . these arrangement be long - stand and part of a standard practice that have apply across successive administration . three former Law officer have criticise the Attorney General for not declare his earning , label it as " irregular " and a break from " normal practice " . who be in the wrong : the three former Law officer or the Attorney General ? the hon . Member will know that the Attorney General cease all private practice follow his appointment . the hon . member refer to fee agreement , and he will know that there be different arrangement and requirement for declaration for member of the House of Lords and for member of the House of Commons . it do not matter which type of fee agreement be in place between a lawyer and their client , because the entirety of those agreement — whether a conditional fee agreement , a damages - base agreement , on a fully pay basis or when act pro bono — will always be catch by the conflict process . the requirement for the purpose of the House of Lords be the same for all peer and they apply just as much to the shadow Attorney General as to the Attorney General . do the Solicitor General agree with the recent Policy Exchange research paper " conflict of Interest and the Law Officers ' Convention " author by Dr Conor Casey , a senior lecturer at Surrey law school , and support by three former Ministers who be all kc , that invoke the Law officer ’ convention on question about the potential conflict of interest relate to the work of the Attorney General would be an error , as such question do not fall within the scope of the convention ? as I have say , the Attorney General ' s Office have a rigorous process for identify and deal with conflict and potential conflict that arise from the Law officer ' former practice . the Law officer ’ convention , to which the right hon . Member refer , exist for very good reason , which be to enable the Government of this country to receive full and frank advice . in any event , the Attorney General have be clear that he do not agree with that report . in particular , he do not agree that a Law Officer would indicate whether they have recuse themselves from a particular matter , because that in itself would breach the Law officer ’ convention . my constituent in Central Suffolk and North Ipswich be decent , tolerant and thoughtful people , but they be leave wonder how the Prime Minister have appoint an Attorney General who be a friend and a Labour party donor as well as someone who have represent Gerry Adams , Shamima Begum and Hamas and clearly have question to answer regard outside earning . do the Solicitor General think that the AG be an appropriate appointment ? again , unfortunately the opposition be fall into the trap of believe that barrister be their client . that be a deliberate conflation of representation and endorsement . as the hon . Member will be fully aware , barrister be not their client in the same way that surgeon be not their patient . that be a foundational principle of the british legal and judicial system , and Opposition Members ought not to undermine that . do the Solicitor General agree that the UK legal system be the envy of the world and a key engine for growth in our economy , and that the conservative party risk undermine a fundamental principle of our legal system that everyone have the right to representation and that lawyer can represent their client without fear or favour ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . the conservative party would do well to talk up our excellent british legal and judicial system rather than consistently seek to undermine the foundational principle to which he refer . I call the shadow Solicitor General . the Attorney General have admit to recuse himself from certain matter ; he have also maintain absolute silence about which matter those may be . in these circumstance , we must ask ourselves : be that the level of transparency that our democracy demand ? what safeguard exist when the Attorney General ' s past client and present duty overlap ? who , independent of the Attorney General himself , scrutinise those critical decision on recusal , or do we face the concern spectacle of the Government ' s chief legal adviser mark his own homework ? as I have outline , the Attorney General ' s Office have rigorous and long - stand process in place . upon appointment , the AGO compile a list of matter in which the Law Officer have previously be involve , by search case , cross - referencing with information obtain by the Law Officer ' s chamber or firm and work through the list with the Law Officer themselves . the Office work with the Government Legal Department , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office to obtain additional information and compile the final list of conflict and action associate with each case . as the shadow Solicitor General know , the Attorney General can not publish a list of his former client due to client confidentiality . [ interruption . ] opposition Members groan , but client confidentiality be a fundamental principle . absolutely ridiculous . the shadow Solicitor General mention recusal . the Attorney General have already indicate in the other place that he have recuse himself from matter . the Law officer ' convention prohibit I from list those matter . no other Law Officer have ever publish a list of the case that they be recuse from the Solicitor General , her predecessor and every conservative Law Officer from the previous Administration rightly and properly understand their duty to declare previous earning . why do the Attorney General refuse to declare money receive from his practice as a barrister ? why do he not acknowledge whether he continue to receive such payment when his predecessor routinely declare both ? why do this Attorney General think that there be one rule for he and another rule for everyone else ? the Attorney General be in the House of Lords , so the rule that apply be different from those that apply in the House of Commons . that be the difference between the Attorney General and the previous Solicitor General and I . those requirement be the same for all peer , include the Attorney General , and they apply just as much to the shadow Attorney General . the Lords Commissioners for Standards say that they consider the complaint make by the shadow Justice Secretary about the peers code of conduct , and dismiss they . order . it be past 10 . 30 am and we need to get through some more question . devolve administration whether she have have meeting with her counterpart in the devolved administration since take office . this Government be commit to strengthen relation with devolved government and foster great collaboration , build on mutual respect and trust . as the hon . Member would expect , the Law officer very regularly meet our counterpart to discuss our share priority . the Scottish National party ' s deposit return scheme be a complete shamble , which the last Conservative Government stop , prevent it from hurt scottish business with more regulation and high cost . the SNP Government be now face legal action over the scheme , with business seek hundred of million of pound in compensation . I appreciate that the Solicitor General can not comment on a live case , but will she confirm that the SNP Government will be solely responsible for any cost that may be incur in handle the case ? the hon . member be right that I can not comment on the specific matter that he raise , but I be happy to look at it and to write to he . Criminal Justice System : Use of Technology what assessment she have make of the potential merit of the use of technology to improve efficiency in the criminal justice system . new technology have the potential to bring transformative benefit to the criminal justice system , as it do to public service more broadly . with regard to artificial intelligence , both the CPS and the SFO be keen to explore the efficiency opportunity that this new technology can bring , while be mindful of ethical consideration . we have see a sickening rise in predator use AI technology to generate child sexual abuse image . I be glad that the Government recently announce measure to close the loophole in this area , but will the Solicitor General assure we that the whole criminal justice system be use every new technology and AI , as well as tough sentence , to crack down on it and protect child and victim of this horrific abuse ? my hon . friend be right to raise this extremely important point . that be exactly why I welcome the Home Secretary ' s announcement that this Government will be the first in the world to make it illegal to possess , create or distribute AI tool design to generate child sexual abuse material , punishable by up to five year in prison . Rural Crime : prosecution Rates what step she be take to help ensure increase prosecution rate for rural crime . the Government be commit to keep everyone in this country safe , whether they live in a town , a city or a rural area . that be why we be put more police officer and police community support officer on the beat , and it be why we have bolster the Crown Prosecution Service ' s workforce . with specific regard to rural crime , we be commit to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , and to the continue funding of the national rural crime unit . as I be sure the Solicitor General know , fly - tipping be the most commonly report rural crime . in 2022 - 23 , the last year for which there be full datum , there be well over 13 , 000 significant multi - load incident ; I use the phrase specifically , as it be an internal description . those incident cost more than £ 4 million to clear up , yet just 22 custodial sentence be hand out in that time . what assurance can she give I and my constituent that the most egregious example of fly - tipping , like those we see in Lichfield two week ago , will result in jail time for the perpetrator ? fly - tipping blight community , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue . I know that he have also raise it with the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs , but I be happy to arrange a meeting with his local chief Crown prosecutor to discuss the matter far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the tragic hit - and - run case of Ryan Saltern in my rural North Cornwall constituency , as well as many other case across the country , highlight a concern problem in our legal system . the driver fail to stop , render aid at the scene , or even call 999 , leave Ryan for dead . the case be hear in a magistrate court , where the driver receive a four - month suspend sentence . Ryan ' s parent , Helen and Mark , and sister Leanne have campaign tirelessly on the issue . will the Solicitor General please look into the issue in conjunction with the CPS and the Department for Transport , and meet I to discuss her finding ? this be a profoundly tragic case , and I be grateful to the hon . member for raise it . my heartfelt condolence go to Ryan ' s family . I know that they and other have be campaign for change to the law in this area , and support family who have be through similarly tragic circumstance . I will discuss the case that the hon . member raise with my colleague in the Ministry of Justice and ensure that he receive a full response . Hate Crime Prosecution what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of people who commit hate crime . whether online or in person , stir up hatred or incite violence will not be tolerate . the Government be determined to take swift and robust action to stamp out hate crime , and perpetrator will face the full force of the law . February mark LGBT History Month , and last night , many people come together in Speaker ' s House to hear about the progress that have be make in tackle hate crime against the LGBT community . will the Solicitor General outline what step have be take to ensure that trans people in particular feel safe , and that perpetrator of hate crime towards tran people be bring to justice ? the CPS prosecute all case that be refer to it , provide that they meet the full code test for Crown prosecutor . I think we would all admit that there be more to do regard the incident to which the hon . member refer . the CPS and police national hate crime lead be commit to joint working to increase the number of police referral to the CPS for hate crime offence . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the criminal legal aid advisory board have ask the Government to raise fee in rape and serious sexual offence case to address the shortage of advocate . prosecutor often earn 30 % to 40 % less than defence barrister in the same case . do the Solicitor General think that she should have a look at fee to ensure that there be not a shortage of advocate , particularly in these serious case ? my hon . friend be right to identify this as a problem . I know from discussion with RASSO charity in my constituency that the shortage of counsel be a direct contributor to case be adjourn or delay . it contribute to the unfortunate slow pace of justice , and to victim attrition . minister in the Ministry of Justice have commit to work with the Bar leadership via the criminal legal aid advisory board , and to look at long - term reform of legal aid . Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary to make a statement on the situation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important matter , and for the urgent question be grant . the whole House will be well aware that for the people of Gaza , so many of whom have lose life , home or love one , the last 14 month of conflict have be a living nightmare . the UK be clear that we must see a negotiate two - state solution , with a sovereign palestinian state which include the west bank and Gaza , alongside a safe and secure Israel , with Jerusalem as the share capital . that have be the framework for peace for decade . our priority remain ensure the fragile ceasefire continue , that all the hostage be release , that much - need aid get into Gaza and that we can rebuild that pathway to sustainable peace . Palestinians must determine the future of Gaza , with support from regional state and the wide international community . we would oppose any effort to move Palestinians in Gaza to neighbour arab state against their will . there must be no forced displacement of Palestinians , nor any reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip . palestinian civilian should be able to return to and rebuild their home and their life . that be a right guarantee under international law . Gaza be home to 2 million Palestinians and remain an integral part of what must become a future palestinian state , with Palestinians live next to Israelis in peace and security . the US have play a critical role in negotiate the ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas , alongside Qatar and Egypt . as hon . member may know , the Prime Minister reiterate that in his call with President Trump . we must now work together to ensure the ceasefire be implement in full and become permanent . the UK be invest in the ceasefire by do all it can to support the surge in aid that be need . alongside our exist support , on 28 January I announce a furth £ 70 million in funding to ensure healthcare , food and shelter reach ten of thousand of civilian , and to support vital infrastructure across the Occupied Palestinian Territories and neighbouring country . we be also concerned at the expansion of the Government of Israel ' s war aim and operation in the west bank . stability be essential at this crucial time . we recognise Israel ' s right to defend itself and the continue threat pose by armed group , but it must show restraint and ensure the scale and conduct of its operation be commensurate to the threat pose . civilian must be protect and the destruction of civilian infrastructure minimise . the UK remain opposed to illegal settlement , their expansion and settler violence . in conclusion , our attention must now turn to how we secure a permanently well future for the israeli and palestinian people , ground — to reiterate the point a final time — in a two - state solution . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . the context in which we approach this question be follow 16 month of bloodshed and the death of almost 50 , 000 Palestinians , and a welcome temporary ceasefire . so the remark of the US President , in conference with the israeli Prime Minister , that the US will " take over the Gaza Strip " to create a " Riviera of the Middle East " and that " 1 . 8 million Palestinians live in Gaza " should live in " other country " , be reckless and dangerous . that have embolden the israeli Defence Minister Katz overnight to far propose the displacement of Palestinians from Gaza . the remark be generate fear and tension in the palestinian population , and across the middle east — as evidence by the statement of Egypt , Jordan , Saudi Arabia and other — and will cause concern and more determined demonstration in the UK . the US President have also restore arm shipment , end funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , and withdraw from the UN Human Rights Council . Netanyahu say that Israel will redraw the map , and the israeli Defence Forces have detonate whole street in the Jenin refugee camp in the west bank . in such dangerous circumstance we should be careful , calculated and accurate in our use of language . force displacement of the type advocate , which have already occur within the Gaza strip , be a breach of international humanitarian right and a war crime . advocate the expulsion of a people be also justly describe as ethnic cleansing , and can only be achieve through yet far appalling violence . I acknowledge that the Government will wish to maintain their diplomatic relationship with the US , as a long - stand friend , but it be the role of friend to be honest with each other , and the UK must use its influence . the Prime Minister ' s remark yesterday that the Palestinians " must be allow home " be most welcome , but the Government must go far . will the Minister say that the UK reject the President ' s remark , and those of the israeli Prime Minister and Defence Minister ? will she confirm that recognition of the palestinian state be an urgent necessity in resolve the conflict ? will she confirm that the border of that state be the 1967 border set out in UN Security Council resolution 242 ? finally , when will the UK Government respond to the International Court of Justice advisory opinion on the israeli occupation of the Occupied Palestinian Territories ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his many point . of course , he be right to underline the appalling suffering that so many Gazans have experience over recent month . we also recognise the suffering of the hostage and their family . this have be a truly horrendous time for Gazans , Palestinians and Israelis . the ceasefire must be hold to , not just in phase 1 , but in phase 2 and 3 , and ultimately we must see a two - state solution . my hon . friend talk about the role of Egypt , Jordan and Saudi Arabia . I reassure he that the UK continue to work with all partner in the region towards peace , which be so important . he mention UNRWA . I be sure he be aware of the UK Government ' s position : we believe that UNRWA must continue to operate , not just in Gaza but on the west bank and , in relation to palestinian refugee , in the region more broadly . he also mention the situation in Jenin . we have be very clear : there must be de - escalation . we be deeply concerned about the potential for further instability because of recent development . in my hon . friend ' s primary question around displacement , he refer to the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday . the Prime Minister could not have be clear in what he say ; like so many of we , be move by " the image of thousand of Palestinians literally walk through the rubble to try to find their home and their community in Gaza . they must be allow home . they must be allow to rebuild , and we should be with they in that rebuild on the way to a two - state solution . " — [ Official Report , 5 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 745 . ] the UK ' s position have be crystal clear . I do not believe that there be any confusion around it , and I appreciate that my hon . friend be not suggest that there be . my hon . Friend ask about the UK ' s position on recognition . he will be aware that we have state that position a number of time in the House , include at length in the statement by the Foreign Secretary on the ceasefire deal when that be agree . we be very clear : the Palestinians have the right , just as the Israelis do , to their own sovereign state where they can live in security . we be determined to ensure that recognition at the time when that be most conducive to achieve a two - state solution , which be the right of both those people . finally , on the subject of the ICJ , my hon . friend will be aware that the Court ' s determination be a very detailed judgment , which it take many month to come to . as behove such a judgment , it be important that the Government consider it in detail . that be exactly what we be do , and we will update colleague as soon as we have come to a determination on that . I call the shadow Minister . the ceasefire remain fragile . there continue to be a long road ahead . we want the agreement to hold , and that mean that each and every hostage must be release , in accordance with the term of phase 1 of the agreement , and the subsequent phase . the video we have all watch of the release hostage be reunite with their family be immensely move . we can not even begin to imagine the pain that they have suffer since 7 October 2023 . we also hold firmly in our thought the hostage who remain in cruel captivity at the hand of Hamas , and the family who continue to anxiously await news of their love one . the awful news that eight hostage will not make it home alive must be unbearable for the family . we reiterate our call for the Government to do everything in their power , with partner , to push for humanitarian access to those who be still be hold hostage . the UK should offer whatever practical support it can to facilitate the smooth release of hostage . the testimony of Emily Damari about the location of her captivity be also very serious , and a thorough and independent investigation be urgently need . I would be grateful for clarity from the Minister on how the UK Government be formally respond , beyond call for an investigation . on the subject of aid to Gaza , can the Minister give we an update on three point ? first , what be the turnaround time for british aid — the time between it reach warehouse in the region and its enter Gaza ? secondly , what metric , if any , be the Government use to monitor the distribution of that aid when it have enter Gaza ? finally , since the ceasefire , have additional type and category of aid be deliver ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for all her question , but also for the concern that she express about the situation of the remain hostage and their family . when I be in Tel Aviv , I have the privilege of meet the brother of Emily Damari , as well as other hostage family , and obviously their suffering have be extreme . as the right hon . Lady say , it have be particularly harrowing for the family of the eight hostage who have die . I know that the whole House will recognise the pain and suffering that have be undergo by the very large number of Gazans who have lose their life . a great many people be , of course , unaccounted for . for many of we , the situation be unimaginable , as we try to put ourselves in the shoe of those return to their former home , in some case try to find out whether their family member be under the rubble . what a horrific experience they must be go through . the right hon . Lady ask three question , with which I will deal in a moment , but she also rightly press I on the issue of Emily Damari ' s captivity and the allegation that she have be hold in UNRWA facility . Commissioner Lazzarini , the head of UNRWA , have say that claim that hostage be hold in UNRWA premise be " disturbing " , and I agree with he . I welcome UNRWA ' s call for independent investigation of any misuse of its facility , and indeed there have be investigation previously : the Colonna review investigate other allegation , and the UK have work with UNRWA to ensure that those investigation be thorough , and that the appropriate change be make . let I turn to the right hon . Lady ' s question . she ask about the turnaround time for UK aid get into Gaza . certainly we have see a far speedy throughput , but I be sure that she would agree that we need to see commercial shipment of good get into Gaza ; that be necessary if there be to be delivery of food and other supply on the scale that be require . we continue to push the Government of Israel to enable that to happen as quickly as possible . as for the metric be use when it come to the distribution of that aid , we be work closely with trust partner , and as the right hon . Lady would expect , we continuously monitor the distribution of UK supply . much of our activity have be undertake jointly with other country , as well as with UN agency , and we work closely with they to ensure that aid be deliver where it be need . lastly , the right hon . Lady ask whether there have be a change in type of aid . we need access for tent in particular , as well as other form of shelter and medical supply . when I be in Jordan , I see medical supply that it have not be possible to deliver to Gaza , and we need access for those . we have see improvement in some area , but give the scale of the challenge , we need to see further improvement , especially in relation to water and sanitation where there have be a great deal of destruction . urgent action be need to improve the position . rise — to those member who be seven minute late , please do not embarrass each other by stand . we have see a really worry escalation of violence on the west bank , just at the time when this fragile peace have be find in Gaza . large part of Jenin refugee camp have be completely destroy by israeli security force , and thousand have be forcibly displace . UNRWA service have be interrupt . what measure be the Minister take to ensure that Palestinians can live safely and securely in their home on the west bank ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . she have considerable expertise in the area of humanitarian support , as do many other member in the Chamber . as I say in my previous response , the UK be very concerned about the situation in Jenin , which we continue to monitor very carefully . we be clear that peace and stability on the west bank be in everyone ' s interest — it be in the state of Israel ' s interest , and in the interest of Palestinians . on 18 December , in a statement at the UN Security Council meeting on the occupied Palestinian Territories , the UK call on Israel to stop illegal settlement expansion on palestinian land , and we be consider all option for take further action . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . President Trump ' s proposal for the forced displacement of Gaza ' s 2 . 2 million inhabitant would constitute a grave violation of international law , and threaten the fragile ceasefire and the return of the hostage . will the Minister condemn they ? the palestinian people have a right to self - determination and to a state of their own , as have be british policy for decade , so will the Government finally commit to an immediate recognition of a palestinian state along the 1967 border ? the welcome ceasefire have give we the opportunity to flood Gaza with aid , but the freeze to US aid funding be reportedly impact the humanitarian response ; non - governmental organisation be be force to lay off aid worker . what have the impact be on the humanitarian response in Gaza , include on British - fund programme , and what conversation be the Government have with our american partner to persuade they that abolish US aid would be a dire mistake ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the important point she raise . the UK ' s position on the right to return could not be clear . I quote the Prime Minister ' s remark , which be most definitely that Palestinians must be allow to go back to their home and community in Gaza , and must be allow to rebuild . that be in line with international law . there be no doubt whatsoever about the UK ' s position on this . the hon . Lady ask about the position on recognition . I respond to that when answer my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) . the UK have be clear that we believe it be important that both Palestinians and Israelis have the sovereignty that be require for they , and the security that be necessary in order to live in peace . we will ensure that the UK ' s decision on recognition be a contribution to the process towards a two - state solution , which we desperately need to see . finally , the hon . Lady ask about US aid . I be grateful to she and other Members for come to our briefing yesterday with the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , in which we cover this matter . the UK note the US decision to pause foreign aid funding for three month , pende a review . there have be a lot of commentary about that . it be a fast - move situation , and we be monitor it very closely indeed , as the hon . Lady would expect . of course , this be a matter for the United States . the UK be very clear that we must continue to do what we can to support people in Gaza , must provide life - sustain support , and must work with a whole range of partner on this , and we will continue to do so . vast swathe of infrastructure in Gaza have be destroy . what work be the Government undertaking on support the palestinian people to rebuild their home and community , as be their right under international law ? this be a critical issue . of course , we need the ceasefire to be hold to . as I say , we have to move through phase 1 to phase 2 and 3 , but we also need to ensure that there be day - after - next - phase planning in Gaza , so that we can see the building up of Gaza ' s governance and security institution and , of course , infrastructure , as my hon . Friend rightly state . we be clear that Gaza ' s recovery and reconstruction must be Palestinian - lead . we have support the Palestinian Authority in particular on this . I be very proud that UK expertise have be support that work , so that this important reconstruction can continue at the require pace and scale , but we need to see the ceasefire hold to enable that . what practical support be the Government give to Egypt now that the Rafah crossing have reopen for medical emergency ? when that happen previously , it put enormous pressure on the egyptian health service and cause some civil unrest in Egypt . as the right hon . Lady know , Egypt be also under pressure on its southern border due to the conflict in Sudan . do she agree that support for Egypt at this critical time be very important ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for underline Egypt ' s role in this incredibly difficult humanitarian situation , and particularly in relation to medical evacuee from Gaza . he be also right to underline that Egypt be now house many refugee from Sudan too . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that the UK be seek to work with Egypt . we have support the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population with £ 1 million , deliver through who Egypt , to support medically evacuate Palestinians from Gaza . we be explore further support for the egyptian system , which be gear up to receive large number of medical evacuee . the world be watch , so let we be clear in this House that the UK ' s reaction to this brazen attempt to far rip up international law will echo for generation . with 61 , 000 Palestinians kill , the ceasefire hang by a thread , and now a blueprint to ravage Gaza , ethnically cleanse Palestinians and resettle the land , where exactly have diplomacy and refuse to sanction Israel lead we ? Palestinians be now face mass expulsion , reoccupation and resettlement , all while the international rule - base order have be rip to shred . I believe it have be incredibly important for the UK to engage diplomatically in relation to this conflict . it be absolutely right that we have seek to work with partner on these issue , that we have support statement within the UN Security Council , that we have work with partner in the region , that we have seek to achieve change , and that we seek to ensure the ceasefire be agree . we need to see more hostage release , we need a surge of aid into Gaza and , ultimately , we need to work with other country towards the two - state solution that be so necessary . I believe our work have be important , and I believe that member would not have forgive the UK Government if we have not engage determinedly with those action . my hon . friend ask about the UK ' s position , particularly on the right to return . we have state very clearly , include at the high level with the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday , that those who be walk through the rubble to get back to their home and community in Gaza must be allow home . of course , in say that , the Prime Minister be restate international law . do the Minister accept that we get here after 16 month of weakness and vacillation by both this Government and the previous Government ? as we contemplate the hundred of thousand of people who be return to their home to dig out their relative from under the rubble , the welcome return of the hostage , and the 40 , 000 - odd orphan — and even more amputee — do she recognise that the hot air we have hear from both government , frankly , get we to a situation in which the Israelis be demolish building in Jenin with people still inside and in which the President of the United States be openly contemplate the forcible transfer of Palestinians ? if the right hon . Lady accept that vacillation , will she confirm a couple of thing for the avoidance of doubt ? first , be Arabs , and Palestinians in particular , entitle to the same protection under international law as everybody else ? secondly , do we still affirm our support for UN Security Council resolution 3236 , which guarantee the Palestinians ’ safety , security and sovereignty in their own land ? if so , when will she stop just talk about it and actually take action to enforce these matter in law ? as the right hon . Member be aware and as we have discuss previously , this UK Government have take a different approach from the previous Government on matter of accountability . we be very clear that the UK ' s arm export regime have to be hold to and operate in line with international humanitarian law . that underwrite the decision we take in the autumn : we say we would examine that regime and deliver on it , and we examine that regime and suspend a number of licence . he be also aware about the new UK Government ' s different position on the legitimacy of the International Criminal Court , the International Court of Justice and UNRWA , and he be aware that we resume fund for UNRWA . I do not want to labour the point because so many hon . member want to ask question , but it be important that the UK have engage in diplomacy and seek to work with our partner . I believe hon . member would expect the UK Government to do that and to engage with the UN on these matter , rather than to walk away . I would underline that international law be universal : it must be — that be its found principle . it operate regardless of circumstance or which population and individual we be talk about . on the right hon . member ' s last point , we have be very clear about the right to return . the television footage of many thousand of palestinian man , woman and child walk back to northern Gaza be a powerful reminder not just of the forceable displacement they have already suffer , but of the extraordinary resilience of that people . that be why there be real anger among Palestinians today that , yet again , the very existence of their homeland be be subject to the whim of another colonial power . I be pleased that the Minister have confirm that the UK have an unshakable policy on the right of return of those Palestinians , to rebuild their home and their life , but would she agree with the UN Secretary - General , who say today that stay true to international law be " essential to avoid any form of ethnic cleansing . " ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for again raise the image that so many of we have see on our television screen of Palestinians return to their home in Gaza . as the Prime Minister explain , in many case they have no choice but to walk back to their home because of the destruction of road and other infrastructure , but many of those home have be destroy . my hon . friend be right that the experience of displacement have be feel by very significant number of Gazans : up to 90 % of Gazans have be displace at least once and some up to nine time . to underline yet another time , the UK ' s commitment to international law be very clear . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have restate that , and I restate it again today . I be grateful to the Minister for her response to my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) on USAID , and grateful to know that the impact assessment of the US Government ' s decision about USAID be ongoing , particularly in relation to the humanitarian situation in Gaza . as part of that assessment , should the Government consider a return to 0 . 7 % of gross national income for overseas development assistance ? if the US be no long a reliable global partner , then surely the UK should be . on a return to 0 . 7 % of GNI be spend on overseas development , the hon . Lady will be aware that my party ' s position — the position of the government — be that we be determined to return to that level of spending as fiscal circumstance allow . we be clear that we must play a part in humanitarian question and , more broadly on development , we must seek to work in partnership with other country . we be do that and have ensure that have feed into our decision for next year ' s one - year spending review , and that will be the case for the long - term spending review as well . the Prime Minister be quite clear when he say at that Dispatch Box that the right of Gazans to return and remain on their land be absolute . as they return , there be many hundred of thousand of psychologically and physically damaged child , which be unprecedented in recent memory . what can we , the british state , do to help they ? I know that my hon . friend will be concern about this issue give his considerable medical expertise . the UK have be act to ensure that we be do our part to support child in Gaza , and we will continue to do so . we be have urgent discussion with our partner on this , and those discussion extend to the concern issue around psychosocial trauma that have be experience by child and ensure that those vulnerable child receive the support that they need in the future . it be welcome news that some hostage have be release , but the shocking scene that we have see of brave young woman surround by terrorist demonstrate that Hamas be still in charge in Gaza . the question now turn to how we ensure that the palestinian people can return to safe and secure home , that the terror tunnel be destroy and that Hamas play no part in the governance of Gaza . give that Hamas be in charge , and that President Trump have make an announcement about how all this could be do , what will the British Government do to come up with a counter proposal that be both reasonable and achievable ? I share the hon . member ' s concern about those scene , and I be sure that other member in the House do so as well . the UK Government have be very clear : Hamas must not play a part in those future governance arrangement . we have be seek to work in a practical manner with the Palestinian Authority , especially make sure that they have the expertise that they need for their reform programme and work towards the reconstruction and recovery that be so important in Gaza . the Minister be right to say that the past 14 month in Gaza have be a living nightmare and that we need a safe and secure Palestine alongside a safe and secure Israel . I agree absolutely that there must be no forced displacement of Gazans . will the Minister say more about how we be focus on the key issue here , which be how the UK be support a ceasefire and the rebuilding of Gaza ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her important question . the UK have seek to invest in the ceasefire . that be the reason why , just last week , we announce additional humanitarian support and support in relation to much - need service in Gaza , so that we could ensure that that surge in aid , which be so necessary , be not just there now , but sustain . that be important , so that we can progress from phase 1 of the ceasefire to phase 2 , then phase 3 , and ultimately towards a two - state solution . no amount of row back by the US State Department can change the fact that what the United States President intimate early this week amount to ethnic cleansing . be the UK Government of the same view that , if prosecute , his plan would amount to ethnic cleansing ? if not , what do the UK Government understand ethnic cleansing to be ? I have hear an awful lot of warm word from the government and ambition about what we believe in , what we stand for and what we have deliver around the immediate humanitarian crisis , but let we not forget that the horror that have happen over the past 18 month be due to the vacuum create by international inaction over the plight of the Palestinians for the last 50 year . what will this Government do to change that drastic situation ? a few moment ago , I list the decision that the UK Government have take that be different from those of the previous Government . we have be determine to ensure that we be very clear about the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice . we have also remove that ban on UNWRA funding , and support move at the UN , through the Security Council , that have be specifically focus on try to push forward the two - state solution that be so important . I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous remark about the Prime Minister himself underline the importance of that right to return . yesterday , we welcome the Prime Minister ' s comment about how the Palestinians must be allow home and must be allow to rebuild . we should be with they in that rebuild and on the way to a two - state solution , yet settler violence against Palestinians continue to increase . will the Minister confirm that this Government have no intention of lift the sanction that the UK have impose on israeli settler and settler group , and will the Government even consider expand they ? my hon . friend will be aware that the UK have impose — I believe it be in the autumn — sanction against those who have engage in and promote violence as settler . we condemn that activity and believe that it reduce the prospect of a two - state solution . of course , for I to talk about future sanction designation from the Dispatch Box would reduce their efficacy , and therefore I will not do that here . I thank the Minister for the clarity of her answer today . we be all aware that Iran play a major role through its antisemitic regime in fund Hamas and Hezbollah , with the stated aim of destroy the state of Israel . if there be to be faith in the reconstruction of Gaza , people who want to do that will have to have faith that there be a secure situation . the attitude of this White House towards Iran be different from the previous one . what action be the Government take and how be they involve in ensure that Iran be not able to re - establish itself to fund and arm the group that specifically want to destroy the state of Israel ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for his comment . the UK Government be clear that Iran have long destabilise the middle east . that have obviously be do through military mean , but it have also give financial and political support to its proxy and partner , include iranian - align militia group in Iraq and Syria , Hezbollah in Lebanon , which he mention , and the Houthis in Yemen . we will continue to work with international partner to encourage de - escalation . long - term peace and security in the middle east can not be achieve without address Iran ' s destabilising activity — the UK Government be clear on that . trump have lift the lid on Israel ' s real plan : the ethnic cleansing — the forced displacement — of Palestinians . nobody can claim any long that they do not know or do not know what be go on : a genocide . all the warm word in the world about a two - state solution will not stop it ; only sanction will , as the world ' s top court demand . that mean ban on israeli settlement good enter this country . it mean sanction on trade and an arm embargo . without do that , people in this House will never be able to say that we do everything we could to stop these crime that will echo down the generation . will the Minister confirm that the Government will finally treat Israel as they have rightly treat Russia and impose widespread sanction ? on my hon . friend ' s question about force displacement , I be very clear early about the fact that the UK Government be absolutely determined to ensure that there be not force displacement . that would be contrary to international law . gazan must be allow home and , in the word of the Prime Minister himself , " must be allow to rebuild " . — [ Official Report , 5 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 745 . ] my hon . Friend ask about the situation in relation to arm export . he will be aware that on 2 September we suspend a number of export licence to Israel for use in military operation in Gaza , and I refer he to my previous response on sanction designation . President Trump ' s comment early this week be grossly irresponsible and dangerous . do the Minister recognise that forcible displacement of a population under occupation constitute ethnic cleansing and be a war crime ? will she clearly and unequivocally condemn the remark of President Trump ? will she recognise the state of Palestine , as an essential step to the long - term sustainable peace that she have articulate support for ? as I mention just a few second ago , we have be clear that any attempt to prevent Gazans from return home to their community , and to suggest that they must remain and be house in other arab state , would be contrary to international law . I be sure that the hon . Lady understand that . not only have she hear I say it , but she hear the Prime Minister say it yesterday , and the Foreign Secretary have say it many time . the hon . Lady ask about our approach to recognition . I agree with she that the lever of recognition be important and will be crucial for the two - state solution , which will be so important to peace in the region . that be why the UK be so carefully consider how we go about that ; we know that ultimately both Israelis and Palestinians have the right to live in sovereign state , in security , and we will ensure that our action be as strong as possible to get we to that outcome . I very much welcome the Minister ' s unequivocal commitment to a two - state solution . the Government be right to reject anything that risk undermine the ceasefire and the release of the remain hostage . however , no top - down political solution will be sustainable unless we build trust between israeli and palestinian community and support the peacebuilder of the future . the Prime Minister have commit the UK to take a lead on an international fund for peace between Israelis and Palestinians . will the Minister provide an update on the progress that have be make on that fund ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for what he say about the clarity of the UK ' s position . I know that he and many other in the Chamber be passionate about peacebuilde . that be an area in which the UK have a certain amount of expertise , derive from those who have be peacebuilde in Northern Ireland and other contexts , and it be important that we seek to contribute to it . of course , the most urgent thing be to ensure that the ceasefire be hold to and that we move from phase 1 to phase 2 to phrase 3 . of course , in future it will be important to do what we can to contribute to peacebuilding . he be right about the Prime Minister ' s announcement ; we be right now consider how we can ensure that that be deliver . many constituent , include Maggie Gardiner , have kindly contact I about their deep concern for the wellbeing of Dr Hussam Abu Safiya , who have be detain by the IDF . I have write to the Foreign Secretary about that , and I know that the Government have raise the issue with the israeli authority . what explanation have be receive in those meeting , and what further work be the Foreign Secretary undertaking to obtain more detail on that important case ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent for raise that important issue , which many member and the general public be concern about , as he say . as he rightly state , the UK Government have raise that issue with israeli counterpart . we be concerned about the situation . we believe that there need to be clarity on why any individual , include medical staff , be be hold . it be also crucial that the Red Cross be able to visit those who have be detain . we have make that point very forcefully . since the ceasefire in Gaza , there have be open warfare against civilian in the west bank , dehumanising of the whole palestinian population , and the threat of ethnic cleansing through a second Nakba . surely we can expect a proportionate response from the UK Government , start with the advisory opinion , recognition and the banning of trade with settlement . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the situation in the west bank . we be deeply concerned by the intensity of IDF military operation in the west bank , as well as by attack from palestinian militant . we recognise Israel ' s need to defend itself against security threat , but we be deeply worried about the method that Israel have employ and about report of civilian casualty and the destruction of civilian infrastructure . we be clear that it be in no one ' s interest to see further conflict and instability . I welcome the commitment that the Minister have give the House and the determination to show our opposition to trump ' s disgraceful approach , but I be disappointed that she do not see this as the ideal moment to commit to recognise the state of Palestine . what be be do across Government to reassure the community in this country who have suffer outrageous abuse since 7 October 2023 ? I want to underline to the hon . Lady that , as we have make very clear , palestinian statehood be the right of the palestinian people — it be not in the gift of any neighbour — and be essential to the long - term security of Israel as well . the UK be work with partner to support a path to long - term peace and stability with a two - state solution . the hon . Lady rightly raise the issue of abuse , and the UK Government of course condemn any form of abuse . we have see a disturbing rise in antisemitism , and also in Islamophobia . all form of hatred must be condemn and act against , and we be work hard against that hatred , particularly through the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . how do the Government address Amnesty International ' s concern that economic activity with illegal israeli settlement contribute to both their sustainability and their growth , thus undermine Palestinians ' right , and that business enterprise involve with Israel ' s illegal settlement may be involve and complicit in international crime ? we be very clear that israeli effort to undermine a two - state solution through settlement building , settler violence and punitive economic measure be unacceptable . we be aware that settlement expansion reach record level in the past year , which be very disturbing , and of course it have be accompany by an increase in settler violence . our position on this issue have be clear , but I will reiterate it briefly : we know that settlement be illegal under international law . they present an obstacle to peace and threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution . the current ceasefire be clearly welcome , but it be fragile , give that Israel seem determined to pursue a policy of expansionism . we have see the bombing in Jenin and the expansion into southern Lebanon , as well as into the buffer zone of the Golan height , and Israel will only be embolden by the irresponsible rambling of the new US President . do the Minister agree that we be witness ethnic cleansing , and can I urge the UK Government to lead at the United Nations with a new resolution for a Marshall plan to ensure the rebuilding of Gaza on the term of the palestinian people ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue of the role that the UK can play in the recovery and rebuilding of Gaza . as I mention , we have be work with a range of partner on that issue , seek to support the Palestinian Authority and contribute expert to their endeavour . the World Bank have conduct an update damage assessment ; we be look very closely at that , and seek to work with the World Bank and other partner on this issue . I call Ben Lake . Diolch , Mr Speaker . any proposal that would oversee the forcible transfer of the entire population of Gaza would clearly constitute an egregious breach of international humanitarian law , but it would also amount to ethnic cleansing . the Government have previously emphasise the importance of a rule - base international order underpin by adherence to international humanitarian law , but how do they hope to defend and strengthen that order when yet another permanent member of the United Nations Security Council seem intent on dismantle it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his word , and for make it clear that the UK Government do indeed support a rule - base international order . that be critical to international law , include international humanitarian law , as we have be discuss . we have repeatedly make that position clear , and we will continue to hold to it , include within the UN and with all of our partner . we know that the ceasefire be incredibly fragile , and that there have be breach with impunity — in particular , we think about the people of Jenin at this time . do the Minister recognise that the lack of recognition of Palestine now be deny people across Palestine the protection that they need ? that protection be critical at every stage . the UK Government have be absolutely clear that we have see far too much death and destruction in Gaza — we be now see truly heart - rend scene of people try to return to community that have be destroy , and we have see over 46 , 000 people be kill . that population require our support , and I do not believe that be contingent on political circumstance . I would like to thank the Minister for her update yesterday , which be greatly appreciated . do she agree with I that we be stand on the precipice of a new and dangerous world order , leave behind one that base global peace on global justice that we have recognise ? close to 48 , 000 palestinian man , woman and child have be kill , while hundred of thousand be return to the rubble that be once their home and , as we speak , mother be look for their child in the rubble . at the same time , the most powerful man in the most powerful country in the world be behave like a gangster . he be talk about displace these people from their land , replace their home with beachfront property , and create casino and a riviera . be this not the time to categorically use the same word we use for other conflict , and call this out for what it be : the ethnic cleansing of the palestinian people ? we must immediately recognise a palestinian state , and can we stand up to President Trump and tell he that Gaza be not for sale ? as I state in response to the question from the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) , the UK have be and will continue to be an advocate for the international rule - base order , which be incredibly important . we need to see those rule uphold by all , and of course we will continue to advocate for that at the UN in relation to all country . we have be very clear about our position , which be that it must be possible for people to return , and I agree with the hon . member about the horrendous situation so many Gazans be face , which we have already talk about during this urgent question . I would just underline again what the Prime Minister say very clearly yesterday : when it come to Gazans return to their home and community , they must be allow home . the comment make by the President of the United States about a riviera of the middle east undermine the hard work towards a two - state solution that , as the Minister have say , be the only way to have a last peace in the region . can she confirm that it will be for the palestinian people to determine the destiny of their country ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask I to confirm that it will be for the palestinian people to determine the future of Gaza , and absolutely , we have be a crystal clear on that . indeed , as I state previously , we have be work with the Palestinian Authority on this . I thank the Minister for her answer during this urgent question . let I make it clear in the first instance that , not have see the full detail of Trump ' s plan for Gaza , I believe I need to see more detail , and I think we should all look at that more astutely . however , I very much want a future for Gaza that see a barren wasteland of death and destruction become something of value , with job , an economy and safety . Israel need a secure border that safeguard israeli citizen so that Hamas terrorist , murderer , rapist and child killer can not murder israeli people . we should remember that China and Iran have stand alongside Hamas . will the Minister consent to keep an open mind on a dialogue with a fresh approach to help those in Israel and the Gaza strip ? I be sure that member across the House want to ensure that there be an economically viable situation in Gaza in the future . that be one of the many reason why commercial operation have to be allow to resume , and it be really important that the Government of Israel enable that . we of course need a situation of security and sovereignty for Gazans and all Palestinians , as I say before , as well as for Israelis . the hon . member talk about economic empowerment , and this issue have be crucial for the UK Government , as I see for myself when I visit Palestinians in the west bank . I see some of the support that the UK have be engage in there , and we will continue that work . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for secure this important urgent question . over the last 16 month or so , we have see palestinian people displace from their home and community — on many occasion not just once , but perhaps twice or three time — so for the President of the United States to suggest a far force displacement seem to I to be not just illegal , but incredibly cruel . in diplomacy , we believe that timing be everything , so in order to give the palestinian people some protection from outside actor who seem to wish to dictate what should happen to they , be it not now time for the international community and our Government to recognise Palestine as a state and give it all the international support and strength that that would provide ? my hon . friend be right to refer to the level of displacement . as I say previously , 90 % of the population of Gaza have be displace , some two or three time , and some up to nine time . when we consider the impact on whole family of have to move so many time , I be sure we be all disturb by that . she be right to say that timing be important — of course it be — which be why the UK Government be consider this so carefully . we must use the mechanism available to we to ensure , above all , that we get to a two - state solution and the peace that be the right of Palestinians and Israelis . the devastation in Gaza need a strong international coalition focus on reconstruction , humanitarian aid and a pathway to a negotiate two - state solution with a viable palestinian state , not speculation about handing over territory and force displacement . on humanitarian aid , two piece of legislation have now come into effect that will ban UNRWA operation in area under israeli occupation . what action be the Government take to prevent the large humanitarian aid operation in Gaza from collapse , with the devastating consequence that would have on Palestinians ? my hon . friend be right ; Gaza ' s recovery need will be vast , and they be extremely serious . the UK be engage with partner on assess those need , and work together so that we can ensure that the unprecedented scale of destruction in Gaza be remediate . that will require innovative financing mechanism , for example . above all , it must be a process that be drive by Palestinians . my hon . friend talk about UNRWA , and I discuss that situation with the emergency relief co - ordinator a few day ago . we continue to work with partner on this , and the UK Government ' s position on UNWRA have be articulate a number of time from this Dispatch Box : we believe that it must be able to continue to operate . let we be clear : palestinian land belong to the Palestinians , and any implication that they should be force from it should be unequivocally condemn . individual Palestinians be routinely force from their land by illegal settlement building in the west bank . will the Minister join I in unequivocally condemn illegal settlement building in the west bank ? yes , and have see that activity for myself , with the impact it have have on Palestinians and their family , the violence that have often accompany it , and the economic damage it have do , I be well convinced of that , as indeed the UK Government have be — they have state that many time . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 10 February be as follow : Monday 10 February — Second reading of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . Tuesday 11 February — consideration of Lords message to the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by consideration in Committee and remain stage of the Arbitration Bill [ Lords ] , follow by a debate on motion to approve the draft Neonatal Care Leave and Miscellaneous Amendments Regulations 2025 and the draft Statutory Neonatal Care Pay ( General ) Regulations 2025 . Wednesday 12 February — Second reading of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 13 February — general debate on LGBT + history month . the House will rise for the February recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 13 February and return on Monday 24 February . the provisional business for the week commence 24 February will include : Monday 24 February — remain stage of the Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] . colleague may also wish to be aware that the business on Wednesday 5 March be expect to be an estimate day ( 1st allot day ) . this week we have see a Government who talk about growth but have prove themselves unwilling to support transformational investment at the AstraZeneca plant in Liverpool . at the same time , they appear keen to expand the sum be pay in relation to the Chagos island to a number some 250 time large than that be consider for AstraZeneca . I can see the degree of shame and embarrassment about that on the Government Benches , and their concern that important city in this country be be deprive of local investment as a result . in business question on 28 November , I raise the issue of the assist die Bill and highlight a host of procedural defect in the way it be be rush through the House by the Government . the Bill be publish barely two week before the vote on Second Reading , as the House will recall . no impact assessment or legal issue analysis have be publish . the promoter of the Bill have circulate a document purport to answer question , but which actually leave a host of important question entirely untouched . those question include the Bill ' s impact on the medical profession and the relationship between medical staff and patient , and the impact on the provision and regulation of the different drug and drug cocktail require . the question include the involvement of the judiciary in the process and the balance of probability test for coercion that the Bill propose . it be not surprising that the Bill be and be be oppose by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and the Secretary of State for Justice , with the former saying : " I do not think that palliative care , end - of - life care in this country be in a condition yet where we be give people the freedom to choose , without be coerce by the lack of support available . " I be sorry to say that the Leader of the House respond to my remark in a very patronising way , suggest that it be somehow inappropriate and " political " for I to raise these matter at all . of course , that be nonsense . I be not take and do not take a position on the underlying issue . the whole purpose of business question be to highlight and debate the passage of legislation through this House . but the Leader of the House ' s defensiveness be itself reveal . it show the extent to which the Government be quietly and wrongly stand behind this private Member ' s Bill . if we fast - forward two month , what do we find ? a Supreme Court justice have tell the Bill Committee that it be not clear what the judge ' s role be suppose to be in this legislation . they call the judicial protection " largely illusory " and echo many other legal expert in highlight the lack of capacity in the High Court . the Government ' s own chief medical officer specifically warn the Bill Committee that the NHS should not be rush into become what would amount to a death service and say that most doctor would not wish to take part in the final stage of an assist dying process , and emphasise the medical vagueness of the idea of qualify people as terminally ill . we have hear about the serious potential for misdiagnosis through the horrendous case of Peter Sefton - Williams , who be incorrectly diagnose with motor neurone disease and give as little as six month to live . those be not my word ; they be testimony on the Bill by lead expert from a range of field . all this have be make much bad by the rushed and secretive way in which the Bill Committee have be handle . the membership be disproportionately weight towards supporter of the Bill . the schedule have be highly congested , with back - to - back sitting that do not allow mps to prepare . some of the session have be hold in private . attempt have be make to prevent key institution , such as the Royal College of Psychiatrists , from appear in front of the Committee at all . the effect of all these measure be to impede and inhibit external and internal scrutiny , and we now hear that the impact assessment will now not be publish before Report stage . all these thing be shocking attempt to undermine and short - circuit the proper scrutiny of the legislation . the Leader of the House have say in term that the Government be not support the legislation . she should therefore have an undiluted interest in ensure that such an important and controversial Bill be properly handle . after all , she , more than any other , be suppose to be the custodian of proper parliamentary scrutiny of legislation . will she therefore now act to address these obvious failure , or will she stick to her position that everything be fine and there be nothing to see here ? may I start with a couple of business question update ? after my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) ask I to join she in congratulate " Bake Off " star Dylan Bachelet , they both join I this week to taste some delicious cake in my Leader of the House ' s office bake - off . Dylan be not only an inspiration to young people from Aylesbury ; I can report that he have extremely good taste , because he choose my lemon drizzle as the winner . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) for come to see I this week with a copy of a Stone Roses record after we have exchange nice word about Revolver Records in his constituency . I hope that hon . member across the House can see that I be open to nice invitation celebrate constituency and community . this week mark LGBT + history Month , which be a chance for we to reflect and remember the contribution of the LGBT community and the discrimination that they still too often face . the Labour party be proud to be the party of equality , have abolish section 28 and introduce civil partnership , the Gender Recognition Act 2004 and the Equality Act 2010 among other thing . turn to the remark of the shadow Leader of the House . first , let I take head on some of his misleading allegation about the process for the assist die Bill . as he be well aware , the House agree by a clear majority that the Bill should proceed from Second reading to Committee . that be the will of the House . that Committee be now convene , and in an unprecedented procedure for a private Member ' s Bill it have be take write and oral evidence to begin with . it will begin many week of line - by - line scrutiny of the Bill , which be again unprecedented ; it will be a lengthy Committee stage . the make - up of the Committee , as set out in the Standing Orders , reflect the vote on Second Reading and the party make - up of the House . many would argue that its make - up have be overly conscious of that . as I have say at the Dispatch Box on a number of occasion , while the Government have a neutral position on the principle of the Bill , we have a responsibility to ensure that any Bill pass by the House be workable and operable . that be the role that we will play through the Ministers represent the Government on that Committee . it be extremely regrettable and ill - advise of the shadow Leader of the House to use his privileged position at the Dispatch Box to give such a political , one - sided and misleading account of what be a difficult , technical , important issue of conscience to the country and to the House . on the day of the Bill ' s Second Reading and since , I think every colleague across the House — perhaps apart from he — have recognise that we and our procedure show themselves at their very good in debate that important matter . the right hon . Gentleman could have use his moment at the Dispatch Box to mark another important anniversary . it may have escape people ' s notice , but next Monday will mark 100 day since the Leader of the opposition take office . I wonder how the right hon . Gentleman think that be go . I be not sure why he do not celebrate all her brilliant achievement — perhaps it be because , like the rest of her leadership , they have go completely unnoticed . oh no , sorry , we have learn a few thing about the Leader of the opposition : we now know what she be against . she be against maternity leave ; the triple lock ; abolish hereditary peer ; our Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will protect young people from abuser ; right and security for worker ; investment in the NHS ; and — oh ! — sandwich for lunch . she have get a couple of thing right : she admit that her party make mistake in government — indeed it do — and accept that it have no plan for growth . this morning , despite say that there would be no new policy until 2027 , she have finally come up with one . I gently advise the shadow Leader of the House that until the Conservatives accept that they get it badly wrong on immigration and that all their rhetoric and target in the last Parliament be just hot air , I do not think that anyone will take the Leader of the Opposition ' s idea seriously . one hundred day be normally a moment for reflection and consideration , so he might want to reflect on that and agree that his party pick a bit of a dud . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby ( pregnancy to age 2 ) , I have have the privilege over the past few month to meet leader from across society who have incredible passion and energy for Government policy that relate to baby from pregnancy to age two . will the Leader of the House consider a debate on the impact of all angle of government policy on baby from pregnancy to age two , give the significant impact of that time on long - term health and wellbee outcome ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue and for all her campaign on these matter , which she take incredibly seriously . this government consider the early year to be really important , as well as maternity and paternity leave and ensure that parent can do their job and be parent . the early year be the most important in a child ' s life . I look forward to work with she on that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I draw the attention of the House to the register of my interest . yesterday , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government make a statement to this House in which she say that she have agree to delay the local election in some area for one year . I must confess that I be a bit confused , because my local council , Essex county council , be one of those area . the briefing paper for the extraordinary full council meeting of Essex county council that take place on 10 January state : " the Leader be minded to support the proposal to postpone the election in order to maximise capacity for the transition process , whilst note that this would lead to a two or three year postponement . " that be rather long than the one year that the Secretary of State announce yesterday . essex county councillor be usually elect for a four - year term and a postponement — really , a cancellation of election for three year — would extend their term of office by 75 % . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the principle of democracy in the United Kingdom ? first of all , I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue of police community support officer in Essex last week . I be sure that she and many colleague across Essex will be pleased with the news , subsequent to she raise the issue last week — I be sure that be not unrelated — that those pcso have be save from the axe . in fact , last Friday the Government double the money available for neighbourhood police . the hon . Lady raise the election that be now not go to happen in Essex . we set a very high bar for the postponement of any election this year . this be a one - year postponement . in the case of Essex , it be so that the great Essex mayoral authority can be establish . the intention be for election for that mayoral authority to take place in May 2026 . I know that these change take time and can cause difficulty in local area , but the devolution revolution that be come her way through those change will bring extra job , growth , well service , well transport and more power to her community in Essex . I hope she will welcome that . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recent comment about support and enable the expansion of nuclear power station in the UK through small modular reactor . the science and technology be well prove but other aspect must be develop alongside , include the provision of appropriate grade nuclear fuel and a permanent solution for nuclear waste . in recent day , I have meet representative of Urenco , a specialist provider of uranium enrichment and fuel and Nuclear Waste Services , which be develop plan for the UK ' s first geological disposal facility . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on all aspect of the nuclear jigsaw , to ensure a join - up and sustainable energy future ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the nuclear industry and nuclear waste disposal . we need to put some rocket booster under nuclear power in this country . it be vital to our future energy security . he be right that we have to do that alongside rigorous safety standard for waste disposal and other matter . I will ensure that he and the House be keep update on these important matter . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 11 February there will be a debate on the cost of energy , and on Thursday 13 February there will be a debate on HIV Testing Week , follow by a debate on the prevention of cardiovascular disease . when we return after the recess , on Tuesday 25 February there will be a debate on maternity service , and on Thursday 27 February there will be a debate on rural crime , follow by a debate on woman ' s health . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for announce the date of the estimate day debate . I be aware that at least six Select Committees be consider put in a request . for new colleague , estimate day be an opportunity to debate the work and spending of Government Departments . application do not have to come via a Select Committee ; the Backbench Business Committee have put the application form on our website , and application will close , because of the recess , on Friday 21 February . we will consider application on Tuesday 25 February . we have a queue of debate for the Chamber ; in fact , as thing stand , we could allocate debate for every Thursday through to beyond May . I note that the Leader of the House have not yet announce what time the Backbench Business Committee will be allow after the recess , but in the event that we be offer Thursday 27 February , we have pre - allocate a debate on the three - year anniversary of the war in Ukraine , follow by a debate on St David ' s day . if we be offer Thursday 6 March , we will have a debate on International Women ' s day , follow by a debate on political finance . I suggest that the Leader of the House would be well advise not to upset any of those sponsor . the Leader of the House do excellent work in advise Government Departments on respond not only to the question that we raise in the Chamber but to letter and question raise elsewhere . however , this week the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , meet a group of Hindus from Bangladesh because of the atrocity in Bangladesh . I raise the matter in business question , and Mr Speaker allow an urgent question on the subject the follow week . I think it would be courteous of the Minister to give a statement to the House on what subsequent action she be take . equally , I gently ask the Leader of the House to ensure that when we ask question and she diligently write to Departments , we actually get answer to our question , because both the quality and the length of time that it take to get a question answer seem very poor at the moment . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for , as ever , advertise his forthcoming business , and for explain how estimate day work . that be especially important for new colleague , for whom the forthcoming debate will be the first such occasion . I hear his lobbying about the allocation of day , which I will take very seriously , as I always do , especially in relation to International Women ' s Day . I do not want to upset the sisterhood by any mean . the hon . Gentleman continue to raise many issue relate to the Hindu community , in this case in Bangladesh . he be successful in get some response . I will raise with the Foreign Office whether further information could be give in a statement , and ask that the House be keep update . he be right that I take extremely seriously the timely and proper response that I expect from Ministers to parliamentary question and correspondence . I will always chase those response . I keep track of the letter that I send after business question and matter that be raise with I , and I take they up robustly . I gently say to he and other colleague that we have see an over 50 % increase in the number of parliamentary write question since the election , as well as a huge increase in correspondence , so a bit of time be need to deal with that . if anybody want to raise a matter with I , I will chase those letter . I have quite a good track record of get response when they be not otherwise forthcoming . I be sure you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I hope the Leader of the House be , that we be currently undergo a digital refresh of computer equipment and laptop here in the House of Commons . I be rather disturbed to learn that the equipment that be hand in be crush and send to landfill . digital poverty be a multifaceted issue that impact all aspect of life : for young child , educational platform can not be access ; job opportunity be hard to access , because 90 % of job be only advertise online ; and for old people , healthcare service and support information be all severely restrict without digital access . therefore , may we have a debate on what we can do — not just as a Government , but this House , too — to increase access to the internet and the digital service that be essential to lift people out of poverty ? my hon . friend raise the really important issue of the digital divide . Digital inclusion be vital . More and more service be move to digital platform as we be in the digital age . if they be not accessible to everybody , then they be not able to serve everybody and we should absolutely address that . I be not aware of the particular issue he raise — the digital hardware of the House not be wipe and reuse , and instead go to landfill — but I will look at it immediately after business question and get back to he on what more can be do . I be hugely concerned , my constituent be hugely concerned and the Cheshire police force be hugely concerned about the rise number of serious sexual attack by those here illegally in this country and those who have be house in immigration centre in Cheshire . may we have a debate on the rise risk in Cheshire , a review of legislation to remove foreign offender , and the risk assessment undertake on the threat pose by individual place in accommodation centre in Cheshire ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this issue . I be aware of some of the incident that have happen in Cheshire and how alarming they must be for the local community and the local police force . they be absolutely totally abhorrent and unacceptable in all those case . she be right to say that there be a range of issue that can be take far . we have bring forward the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which will make return those who be here illegally and those who commit crime when they be here much easy . we be make great stride on that . we be take real action on violence against woman and girl , ensure criminal sanction be appropriate , and we be put more police on the street . there be also particular issue with asylum hotel and the company that run they , which I will take up for she . like much of the rest of the country we have a housing emergency in Rochdale , with 22 , 000 people on the waiting list and many , many child live in temporary accommodation that be unfit for family life and cost the taxpayer a fortune . do the Leader of the House agree that , while the £ 500 million of new funding in the Budget for affordable and social housing be very welcome and long overdue , we need a debate in Government time on the need for the come spending review to ensure more stable , secure home like the council house that I grow up in ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I hear the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) talk about this issue regularly . she rightly make the point that council housing use to be see as the poor relation , but these day it be actually a luxury to get a council house . that be why , as part of our target to build 1 . 5 million new home , a huge boost in social and new council housing be absolutely at the heart of meet that target . as he say , have a secure , affordable home be the bedrock to a successful life . as the Leader of the House will be aware , the community infrastructure levy be a requirement to make a contribution towards essential infrastructure . however , in West Berkshire , Waverley , Horsham and Bracknell Forest , there be evidence that exemption that should have be give be not , result in resident be charge incorrectly and then chase by debt collector for recovery of those fine . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time to discuss that important issue ? will she also congratulate Councillor Jeff Brooks , the leader of West Berkshire council , who have so far refund £ 200 , 000 to resident who be incorrectly charge ? I be sorry to hear of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent who have be incorrectly charge and then chase down for those debt , but I be pleased to hear that some of that be now be put right . I know that there be a debate in Westminster Hall on the regulation of the bailiff sector , where he may want to raise some of those issue . however , I will happily raise what he have mention with Ministers and ensure that he get a full reply . like most mp , one of my favourite thing be to visit school in my constituency . recently , I be at Sir Graham Balfour school in Stafford where one of the student speak to I passionately about how school sport and physical education benefit not only physical but mental health . inspire by his campaigning , will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on improve access to PE and sport in school ? I thank my hon . friend for mention the issue raise with she on her recent school visit . PE not only play a vital role in ensure our young people have access to a broad curriculum that can help they well succeed in education , but be critical to mental and physical health and to our preventive work , and the Government be commit to that . I be sure that the subject would make a good debate be she to apply for one . the Deputy Prime Minister ' s announcement yesterday be widely believe to herald not just the widespread cancellation of democratic election , but the introduction of far more power for Government to centralise decision making and impose it on local authority , as well as a massive reduction in the number of councillor represent local people in local authority and the abolition of whole tier of local authority for which the Government have no electoral mandate — and that be on the basis of putative saving for which there be no proof , so the chaos of that reorganisation will have to be pay for by cut in public service . when will the Government provide a full day ' s debate on the proposal for devolution and local government reorganisation across the country on a scale that we have not see for some 50 year ? certainly , that merit a full day ' s debate and a vote at the end of it . I be sorry the hon . Gentleman do not welcome our real commitment to devolution , ensure that local community have more power over the thing that affect they , such as their local service , transport , economic development , and join that up in a way that provide strategic benefit to those area . I respect the hon . Gentleman , but I gently say that under the government that he support , local government be absolutely hollow out after year and year of austerity , with local council after local council go bankrupt , month after month . we have give a record , long - term settlement to local government and alongside that we be unashamedly push power out to community . we have have several statement to the House already . there will be a Bill forthcoming that enact many of the measure , and ample time for debate , but I will ensure that the House be keep fully up to date . tomorrow be the one - year anniversary of the publication of the Hughes report , which find that the child leave disabled by valproate and the woman injure by pelvic mesh implant for life should be give urgent financial compensation . one year on , we be yet to see an official Government response to that report . the Leader of the House will know how important it be that woman be listen to by healthcare professional . surely she agree that when they be dismiss and leave physically damage by those who be suppose to have protect they , financial redress be deserve . will she grant a debate in Government time to allow mp from across this House — we all have constituent who have raise this with we — to discuss the recommendation of the all - important Hughes report to mark this significant occasion ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue and for her many year of important campaigning and leadership , which I know have be a great comfort to the many woman — and not just woman — who have be affect by this scandal . as she have say , the Hughes report be a significant watershed and a line in the sand . I will certainly inquire about the whereabouts of the Government response to that report , and will ensure that the House be update at the early opportunity . as we make the important shift to new renewable energy , which we know be need , there be a number of concern on both side of the House about the siting and appropriateness of battery energy storage system . my own constituent have be leave shock by the planning inspector ' s decision to green - light an application , against the democratic will of the council , for a battery energy storage system on the green belt at Chapel Lane . may we have a debate in Government time to enable we all to air our view and concern ? let I first thank the right hon . Lady for raise with I recently some matter relate to correspondence and the lengthy wait for reply . have raise the issue myself , I have now be assure that she should have receive those reply in the last couple of day . I know that she have be raise the question of the battery storage application in her constituency for some time . as I be sure she will recognise , I can not comment on a specific application , because the inspectorate have listen to the appeal and the finding be available on its portal . the Government make no apology , however , for want to get the infrastructure that we need into our community as well as the housing , which be why we be reclassify some suitable green belt as grey belt , although we do have very strict criterion . I will continue to ensure that there be ample time for the House to debate these matter which be so important to it . I regularly hear from parent in my constituency whose child be struggle to access the mental health support that they deserve , in some case wait month or even year for their first appointment with child and adolescent mental health service . however , I know that they will be encourage by this Labour Government ' s commitment to cut waiting time , introduce mental health support in school and open a network of Young Futures hub . as we mark child ' s Mental Health Week , may I ask if the Leader of the House will allow time for a statement on the Government ' s progress in improve mental health support for child and young people ? I certainly join my hon . friend in mark child ' s Mental Health Week , and he be right to raise these important matter . mental health service , especially those for young people , have be the poor relation for far too long . I think that all of we , as constituency MPs , parent and other , recognise that the mental health crisis among our young people deserve the attention that it need , which be why we be recruit more mental health worker . I think that this would be a very good topic for a debate . next week be mind your Head week , which aim to raise awareness of mental health challenge face the farming community . the theme this year be " positivity , resilience , and love " . woman in farming occupy many role both on and off the farm , balance childcare , care responsibility and non - farming work . they often have to manage gender inequality in agriculture , and in some case be victim of domestic violence and rural crime . their voice and mental health struggle be rarely hear , but a new study conduct by the University of Exeter seek to shed light on this important issue . will the Leader of the House grant we a debate in Government time on the mental health . of woman in farming ? ' the hon . Lady have take the opportunity — an important opportunity — to raise an issue which I be sure will be of interest to many member on both side of the House : the role that woman play in farming and how vital that role be , and some of the challenge that they experience , often in silence or without recognition . I be sure that this too would be a very good topic for a debate . I recently meet constituent who be increasingly concerned about the anti - hindu violence in Bangladesh . since last August , there have be report of more than 2 , 000 incident of violence , most of which have be target at the minority Hindu community . furthermore , I have see deeply perturb report of the arrest and continue custody of the former leader of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness , Chinmoy Krishna Das . the UK champion freedom of religion for all , and no one should be at risk of violence or target because of their belief . I note the response from the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , on this issue in December . will the Leader of the House either update the House , or ask the Foreign Secretary to make a statement on his assessment of the situation , and on the action that his Department have take to engage with the new Government in Bangladesh , so that they can support the right of people of all religion to live freely ? this government take these issue extremely seriously . my hon . friend the Minister be in Bangladesh recently , where she make it very clear that the Bangladeshi Government should take more step to protect religious minority . the anti - hindu violence in Bangladesh that my hon . friend have describe have already be raise twice during business question , and be raise with I frequently . I will ensure that the Minister for Development update the House at the early opportunity . may I echo the call from the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) for a Government response to the Hughes report on the use of sodium valproate ? my constituent Charlie Bethune have be not only an incredible carer for his daughter Autumn but a doughty campaigner on this issue , which he be raise today in the Scottish Parliament . he believe that because the harm cause by sodium valproate be diagnose across the United Kingdom , there should be a United Kingdom response to those who have suffer , and he fear that there may be a different response in Scotland . when the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care make a statement , will he seek to co - ordinate with the devolved Administration , so that we have a unified response ? let I take this opportunity to thank the right hon . gentleman for all his tireless campaign on these matter , on which he have work with his constituent and other over many year . I will absolutely ensure that the House be update on the Hughes report and issue relate to sodium valproate , and I will ensure that it cover the position UK - wide , and that there be co - ordination . I will get back to the right hon . gentleman on that . in the 1950 , Kettering have five cinema , but since the Odeon close its door last week , we have none . our swimming pool be build in 1984 and be in desperate need of investment , while our art gallery and museum have both be close for some time . constituency like Kettering have be hit hard by the Conservatives ' cultural vandalism , and my constituent be miss out as a result . will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on the huge importance of access to local culture and sport ? my hon . friend be right : access to culture and sport be at the heart of thriving community and happy place and people , and I be sorry to hear about what be happen in Kettering . as she will know , we have a manifesto commitment to replace the community right to bid with a strengthen right to buy asset of community value , and I think that would help in case such as this . the subject of access to local culture and sport be raise with I regularly during business question , and although the Backbench Business Committee ' s time be oversubscribed , I think this would make an extremely good subject for a Backbench Business debate . I should first declare an interest , as chair of the Scotch whisky all - party parliamentary group . the Scotch whisky industry be obviously a heavy user of UK - produce glass , and be try hard to increase its recycling . there be cross - party support for the extend producer responsibility measure — I be a member of the Delegated Legislation Committee that consider they — but concern have be express to the APPG about the practicality of extend producer responsibility , and the risk of its become a tax , rather than bring about the circular economy that we all want . speak as a Scottish MP who see the collapse of the deposit return scheme in Scotland and have hear the concern express by business , may I ask for a debate in Government time on ensure that we secure the right outcome from extended producer responsibility ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise these important issue for the scottish whisky industry and producer of glass in this country . we have a debate on the Floor of the House about that scheme recently , and I know that some of those issue be raise then , but I will ensure that minister have hear her concern about extend producer liability and will get she a full response . in a week when we be remind of the tragedy of Grenfell Tower , we have also learn about the scandal of company issue false fire safety certificate , or EWS1 — external wall system — form . I understand that there be no official register of those certificate , yet ten of thousand of homeowner be affect by the issue , and face their property be uninsurable and unsaleable . can we have a debate in Government time on this scandal and the need for an official register of these certificate ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . there be many tall building in my constituency of Manchester Central , so I be unfortunately all too familiar with the issue around EWS1 form and the whole risk - assessment industry that have grow since Grenfell Tower . he can rest assure that the Government take these issue incredibly seriously . we issue a remediation acceleration plan just before Christmas , but I will ensure that there be ample time for the House to debate these matter . application for battery storage facility be flood into the Scottish Borders . there be also plan for a massive 50 - mile route of pylon across our unspoilt landscape . local resident be concerned about the impact on their community and on the natural environment . they feel that the Labour and SNP Governments will not protect they . I know that the Leader of the House look for invitation , so will she visit the Scottish Borders to meet local resident , so that she can see for herself the impact that these development will have on these community and the environment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that . one of his previous invitation be to Center Parcs — I might take he up on that one . he do regularly invite I to his constituency . he raise a matter that be very serious to his constituent . we all have to recognise that there be a difficult balance to strike , and difficult issue to face , when it come to get the infrastructure that we need to be a clean energy superpower , and to have low bill , job security and , crucially , energy security . there will be some difficult decision around the grid , pylon and so on . we have to strike a balance , which be why we be explore how to ensure that community that need the infrastructure in their locality can benefit from the low bill that it will bring . back in 2021 , resident in Kidsgrove be promise a portfolio of project as part of the Kidsgrove town deal . to date , resident have experience delay and confusion . they rightly want more openness and transparency from Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the delivery of town deal , so that local people can see real delivery , and not more delay ? I be really sorry to hear about the challenge with the Kidsgrove town deal . what we have see with the town deal model be a bidding war — a competitive , dog - eat - dog situation — that be not work or deliver for community . that be why we be put record level of investment into community through local government funding and move towards long - term , stable core funding , so that local community such as my hon . friend ' s in Kidsgrove can have long - term certainty about funding . the Government ' s express political support for Heathrow airport expansion have spark concern that they might be get ready to expand Luton airport too , despite the fact that the Government ' s own climate adviser say that no net expansion of airport should go ahead until there be a climate emission framework in place . have any Ministers indicate that they intend to publish a climate emission framework , and if so , when ? will the Leader of the House use every lever in her power to ensure that , in due course , this House have a debate on that emission framework before any new airport expansion be give the green light ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that issue . she will be aware that application such as the one from Luton airport be to be consider in a quasi - judicial capacity by the Secretary of State for Transport , so it would not be appropriate for I to comment directly on that . however , I can assure she that any decision on airport expansion would be take in the context of our legally bind emission target and a whole range of criterion that she will be aware of , but I will ensure that any such decision be bring to this House first for scrutiny by she and other . on Sunday , my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal will celebrate his 38th birthday . this will be his eighth birthday in solitary confinement while arbitrarily detain in an indian prison . can the Leader of the House raise his case with her Cabinet colleague , and ensure that our government continue to raise Jagtar ' s case at the high level with the Indian Government , to accelerate my constituent ' s return home to his family in West Dunbartonshire ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the difficult and tragic case of Jagtar Singh Johal , who be in prison in India . we have raise this issue with Prime Minister Modi on a number of occasion , and on every occasion we underline the need for an urgent resolution . I will ensure that my hon . friend have a full update from Ministers , who will bring that to the Floor of the House if necessary . I would like the Leader of the House to know that a number of my constituent have contact I regard the prescribing of antidepressant medicine in the UK and the iatrogenic harm cause to patient by antidepressant medication . many be now diagnose and suffer from condition include post - acute withdrawal syndrome and post - SSRI — selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor — dysfunction . my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) hold a Westminster Hall debate on this issue only last year . however , give the severity of the concern raise , will the Leader of the House consider a full debate in Government time on this very important matter ? I think every MP in the House will have have constituent contact they about the use of anti - depressant , how they be prescribe , their effect , and whether they be fully understand by those they be give to . this be a really important issue , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a full response , but I think this would make a very good topic for a debate . my right hon . friend know how much I value and enjoy our hospitality industry in South Shields . it be a major employer , contribute more than £ 80 million to our local economy , so we must keep it in business , but she will know that many in the industry be worried about upcoming tax change . I know that this Government be commit to support business , so can we have an urgent debate on how we can mitigate the impact of these change on the hospitality industry ? like my hon . friend , I fully support the hospitality industry . I recognise the unease and worry of many in the industry about how difficult business be at the moment ; we have see demand fall over recent year and cost go up as inflation go through the roof under the previous Government . we have to take difficult step in the Budget to fix the foundation of the economy and ensure much - need investment in our public service . we have try to mitigate the impact of those step as much as possible for small business , and 50 % of the small business will not pay any additional national insurance contribution ; in fact , many will see cut . I hope to work with she and other to continue to reassure the hospitality sector . last week , I meet the Harrogate branch of the National Autistic Society and hear first - hand story of issue face by people with autism , include get a diagnosis , get help and support into employment , and stigma . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on the challenge that autistic people face and how we can do more to support they ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s meet with the Harrogate branch of the National Autistic Society . autism and other special educational need and disability be regularly raise in these session . we have already have some debate . the Government and local authority be put more support into special educational need , which could help to support people in his community . I will ensure there be ample time to debate these issue . can we have a statement on knife crime , and particularly the proposal for knife to be sell with rounded or blunt tip to reduce the risk of death or serious injury if they be use as a weapon ? will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Idris Elba , whose powerful documentary " our Knife Crime Crisis " raise the issue last week , as well as the group of judge , surgeon , psychiatrist and university researcher who have , over the last decade , make the case for phase out point kitchen knife , which be far and away the most common murder weapon in England and Wales ? the issue of the knife crime epidemic — that be the only way to describe it — be profound , and I thank my hon . friend for raise they . I join he in support the work of Idris Elba , who recently meet the Prime Minister in Downing Street as part of the coalition to tackle knife crime . we be do a range of thing , and my hon . friend will be aware that we have already ban zombie - style knife . we be ban ninja sword , and we be bring forward further measure in the forthcoming crime and police Bill . we also have to do more on prevention through education , the Young Futures programme and youth hub around the country , so that our young people stop carry knife . I put on record my sheer admiration for my constituent and local community champion , Julie Meares . I first meet her four year ago , when she want to make sure we have a proper community centre in the centre of Braithwaite . we get there with her dedication to improve Braithwaite , and I go to the opening of the new Keith Thompson community centre . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Julie Meares ? can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of community hub and community centre , which play a vital role in improve society and provide a space for we all to get together in our local community ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Julie Meares and all those who have support the community centre in Braithwaite . I think we would all like to spend a bit more time in this place celebrate volunteer like Julie . they be the backbone of our community , without whom we would not have the place that we all enjoy live and work in . Illegal e - scooter and illegal e - bike be a menace to many of our community , include mine in Southend West and Leigh . just this week , Essex police have move from education to enforcement , and nearby Basildon council have decide to end its e - scooter trial . E - scooter be a good , environmentally friendly way to get around , if implement properly . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to discuss this important issue ? my hon . friend be right that e - scooter can be a plague on our community . we will legislate to ensure that e - scooter be use responsibly and safely . we will also make it easy to seize vehicle , include e - scooter , that be ride dangerously on the pavement or leave abandon . these measure will come forward soon , and there will be ample time to debate they . business in Bath be increasingly worried about shoplifting , but online fraud be also a huge worry , and it be surge . nearly 70 , 000 case be report in 2023 - 24 , with victim lose an average of £ 800 . can we have a debate in Government time to understand the extent of the problem , what the Government propose to do about this surge , and how we can protect our constituent ? retail crime be effectively decriminalise by the previous Government , and we be take step to reverse that through our crime and police Bill , which will also have measure on online fraud . the Bill will be introduce imminently , and there will be ample time to debate these matter . what action can be take when a previous Member of Parliament continue to promote themselves in the constituency where they lose their seat , retain the portcullis insignia and the title in their publicity ? I be appal to see the picture and the evidence that my hon . Friend send to I of her predecessor effectively parade around her constituency as an MP or a shadow MP , or other such thing that do not exist . use the portculli symbol in that way be absolutely against protocol . I take this matter very seriously , and I know my hon . friend have raise it with the House authority and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . I will ensure that action be take and get back to she . for the last 25 year , Falun Gong practitioner in China have suffer relentless persecution at the hand of the chinese Communist party . report from human right organisation highlight that million have be subject to imprisonment , force labour and torture simply for practise their faith . the expansion of this campaign beyond China ' s border be deeply troubling . leak report from China ' s Ministry of Public Security indicate that the regime be now escalate effort to eliminate Falun Gong worldwide use a network of spy , social medium , disinformation and harassment of practitioner — even here in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . this be not just an attack on religious freedom ; it be an affront to british value , democracy and the rule of law . will the Government urgently investigate and counter the influence of the chinese Communist party ' s transnational repression within our border , include its attack on Falun Gong and its attempt to censor Shen Yun performance ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue of freedom of religion or belief . I reassure he that the Chancellor and the Foreign Secretary raise human right and matter of freedom of religion or belief on their recent visit to China , and that these issue be take very seriously by this Government . I thank he for continually raise these issue in this House . the police station in Corby be close down in 2017 . it be replace by a police hub on the second floor of a public building , and that hub be now open for only two day a week . People on bail be ask to take selfie to demonstrate that they be meet their bail condition . frankly , that be not good enough for the people of Corby . public perception of local policing have be shatter , and there be now a view that local police be somewhat remote . will the Leader of the House support my campaign to bring a police station and a dedicated response unit back to Corby , to return to true local policing ? we have to be honest that a phenomenal number of police station be close under the previous Conservative Government , and that community policing be leave on its knee . we be determined to fix that , which be why we be bring in more neighbourhood police officer and more police community support officer so that people can feel reassure by have police out on the beat . my hon . friend may want to raise some of these issue when we debate the forthcoming crime and police Bill . rise — order . it would be helpful if the remain member could keep their question very short , so that I can get you all in . Croydon ' s youth engagement team be a council - run service that provide critical support for young people across Croydon , include keep kid away from be groom by gang , support a youth assembly that give kid a civic voice , and provide a youth hub in New Addington , in my constituency . those service be now under threat because Croydon council deem they to be non - statutory and need to make saving . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate about long - term funding settlement for youth service and how we can ensure they be give the statutory protection that they need ? after year of cut and austerity , we have see the decimation of youth service and youth hub in many of our community , so it be not surprising that knife crime and other issue have increase as a consequence . my hon . friend know that this Government be commit to prevention education and to bring youth hub to every community . I would like to draw the Leader of the House ' s attention to the experience of a constituent of mine who be a victim of domestic violence . the perpetrator , who go to prison for his violent crime , be name on a joint tenancy agreement with a local housing association along with my constituent , yet my constituent have be tell that there be no way to remove he from the tenancy without his permission , which he refuse to provide . will the Leader of the House set aside Government time for a debate to discuss that extremely concern matter , so that victim of domestic violence , such as my constituent , will not be put through further trauma ? I be sorry to hear about that case . I assure my hon . friend , his constituent and other survivor of domestic abuse that we will be strengthen the right and protection available for woman in co - habit couple , include address issue around joint tenancy , so that they can remain in their home . I look forward to let my hon . friend know when those measure will be introduce . cultural and community institution in the heart of central London face an uncertain future . the Jubilee Hall gym , central YMCA and the Prince Charles cinema all have uncertain future because of the complex property ownership structure in which they exist . central YMCA face closure tomorrow , so will the Leader of the House support I with my call to meet the landlord , so we can come together to discuss a sustainable , long - term future for that institution ? my hon . friend be right that we need to put more power back into the hand of local community and local government to ensure the long - term future of community asset , like the one she describe . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Sam Elliott , a 16 - year - old from Buxton , in my High Peak constituency , who run a marathon across the month of January to raise important money for Prostate Cancer UK ? prostate cancer be the most common cancer in man , so will the Leader of the House join I in encourage all man to check their risk on the Prostate Cancer UK website ? it take 30 second , but it could save their life . will she support I in consider a debate on tackle that most important risk to man ' s health ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate Sam Elliott , who run a marathon across January to highlight the issue of prostate cancer . my hon . friend be right that early diagnosis and screening could save many life . it be vital that we get more early diagnosis of that important cancer , as this Government intend to do . Inglis Bridge in Monmouth have be close since September , cause a one - mile detour for child go to school at the Osbaston Church in Wales school . as the Leader of the House will know , it be difficult enough get ready for school , and get kid , pram and bike out of the door , without have to go a mile along narrow pavement around Monmouth . it be also difficult for wheelchair user to access the green space at Vauxhall Fields from Osbaston while the bridge be closed . will the Leader of the House support my request to the Ministry of Defence , which own the bridge , to provide funding to refurbish and reopen it as soon as possible ? my hon . friend rightly highlight the importance of that bridge to her community , and its closure be cause huge disruption for many of her constituent . I know she have be touch with Defence Ministers about the matter , and I will follow that up for she , so we can get that bridge in Monmouth open as soon as possible . last week I visit a local sixth - form college in Brighton , and one of the first question I be ask be when the House will vote on introduce vote at 16 . I do my good , tell the student that we have a manifesto commitment and that I hope the vote would be later this year . will the Leader of the House do one well and confirm when we will have a vote in this House ? I know that this issue be close to my hon . friend ' s heart and that it be something he strongly support , as I do . vote at 16 be an important measure in our manifesto , but he will know that it have not be identify in a Bill to be introduce in this Session . I hope that an election Bill , include vote at 16 , will be forthcoming in the next Session and that we will all get a chance to vote for that measure , as I know he and I both will . my constituent Alison Parr have have the most appalling time try to obtain free prescription on the NHS , to which her profoundly disabled daughter , Ruby , be perfectly entitle . please may we have a debate in Government time on how the NHS and all public service can be make fully responsive to the need to disabled people ? I congratulate my hon . friend on hold more Change NHS consultation in her constituency than any other Member have hold in theirs . as a result of those meeting , she have raise the important issue of free prescription . I will raise her concern with the relevant Minister and ensure that she get a full response . date - n - Mates be a fantastic charity that operate across Scotland , include in Falkirk . it provide hundred of event every year that offer friendship and opportunity for adult with learn disability . the real asset of the charity be its workforce , include John Clarke , who start as a service user and be now the Falkirk director , and some 40 % of the workforce of Dates - n - Mates be adult with learn disability . when I meet John , he speak to I about the challenge that adult with learn disability find in the workplace . from interview to start a new job , even those with year of expertise , like John , often struggle to be take seriously and be deprive of suitable opportunity . will the Leader of the House support I in secure a debate in Government time on what the Government can do to level the play field for adult with learn disability in the workplace ? I join my hon . friend in thank John Clarke for all the work he have do over the year to raise awareness of these issue through Dates - n - Mates , which be a great name for an organisation . my hon . friend will know that we be actively encourage employer to create disability - inclusive workplace . I will ensure that he and the rest of the House be keep up to date with those matter . although Leigh and Atherton be a part of Greater Manchester , they be also close neighbour of Warrington and St Helens . the road network design around our factory and mill now struggle with the increase amount of traffic and congestion . will the Leader of the House commit to hold a debate about improve public transport and connectivity in those area , which will be popular with member include our Cheshire and Merseyside neighbour ? I be a close neighbour of my hon . friend , and my husband work in Warrington and use those road regularly . I share her frustration that the road network in the north - west , around our region and across many part of the north of England be in a poor state , and insufficient to cope with the increase traffic that she mention . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear her plea , but this subject would make a good topic for a debate . my constituent in East Worthing and Shoreham , and all those serve by Southern Water , face a 47 % increase in their bill after year of mismanagement by the company and the previous Government . will the Leader of the House assure I that the Government will ensure that the additional money that my constituent will be pay will be put into fix our broken water system , not into the pocket of executive and shareholder ? water customer in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and in many other , have be leave to pay the price of many year of conservative failure . the Conservatives allow water company to spend billion of pound on bonus and shareholder payout , instead of invest in our crumble infrastructure . I assure he that the money raise from increase water bill will go to water infrastructure . yesterday ' s meeting of the Scottish Affairs Committee take some interesting and informative evidence from representative of the space industry in the UK . the launch of the first commercial space rocket from SaxaVord spaceport in Shetland be likely to take place before the end of the year . the industry have potentially great commercial benefit for the UK and be very important to our integrity as a sovereign nation . one of the key ask of the representative we speak to be that there should be a Minister for space , who could help they to navigate the various jurisdiction they have to speak to , cut through the number of local authority and other authority they have to deal with , and simply be a champion for their industry . will my right hon . friend raise those matter in Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; space have transform in strategic importance over the past decade . the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation have responsibility for co - ordinating space policy right across Government , and I know that he will be put rocket booster under this policy area in the future . Stockton be rightly fame for its high street , the wide in Britain , with amazing independent store such as Chic & Crafty , Regency Records , and the Book Dragon support by our business improvement district . will my right hon . friend join I in commend Stockton borough council for its investment in a new park and health diagnostic centre in Stockton , road improvement in Norton and £ 20 million for Billingham town centre , all of which will benefit from this Government ' s commitment to crack down on retail crime and invest in Cleveland police ? will she also find Government time for a debate on high street renewal ? not one to miss an opportunity for another pun , I shall say that I know that Stockton high street have a reputation far and wide for what it offer . my hon . friend be right to raise these issue . I be glad to hear that Stockton be get the investment in its town centre that it so desperately need . UK - EU Relations with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the UK ' s relationship with the EU . on Monday , in Brussels , the Prime Minister attend an informal retreat with the 27 EU leader and Presidents von der Leyen and Costa . this mark a clear step forward for this Government ' s reset of the UK ' s relationship with the EU . he be the first british Prime Minister to join a meeting of European Council member since the UK leave the EU . the Prime Minister discuss the common threat that the UK and the EU face , and the value that close UK - EU co - operation on security and defence could bring . these be point that he also discuss early in the day , when he meet the Secretary - General of NATO . with the EU ' s 27 leader , the Prime Minister outline a number of step to increase co - operation on share threat , include cross - border crime and illegal migration , while deliver growth and security at home . he call on Europe to step up and project strength , to keep up the pressure on Putin , alongside sustain military support to Ukraine , to put it in the strong possible position this year . he set out a strong case for european security and defence : an ambitious UK - EU security partnership ; a deep role for Europe within NATO ; the continued importance of small group such as the joint expeditionary force ; together with a continent - wide increase in defence investment . the Prime Minister be clear that the UK would play its full part in european defence and be ready to work together with the EU . on Tuesday , we announce that the UK will welcome the president of the European Council and the European Commission to the UK for the first UK - EU leader ’ summit , which will take place on Monday 19 May . this first summit will provide an opportunity to far strengthen the relationship between the UK and the EU , for the benefit of all our people . on Tuesday , I attend the UK - EU forum in Brussels to discuss the share challenge and opportunity face the UK and the EU , opposite my EU counterpart , Maro š Š ef č ovi č . I make the case that this Government will be guide by what I be call " ruthless pragmatism " — work in the UK ' s national interest to make people across the UK safe , more secure and more prosperous . the Government ' s position be that it be in the british national interest to improve our economic , safety and security relationship with our near neighbour . we reject the ideological approach of the past and will take a hard - headed assessment of the british national interest . as the Leader of the Opposition recently say : " we announce that we would leave the European Union before we have a plan for growth outside the EU . " she say : " those mistake be make because we tell people what they want to hear first and then try to work it out later . " this Government will end that chaotic , dogmatic decision making . we should be guide by the principle of mutual benefit , find collaborative solution to our common problem . we should be open - minded to proposal that deliver well outcome for the british people , within the manifesto on which this Government be elect . this government have be clear that we be not hit rewind . we be not undo Brexit and we be not rejoin the single market or the custom union , but we be look to make Brexit work in a ruthlessly pragmatic way . that be the spirit that we be take into the discussion with the EU — not a zero - sum game , but a win - win for both side , with people across the UK and the EU benefit . yesterday I meet my EU counterpart , Maro š Š ef č ovi č , and discuss how we can well work together to enhance co - operation in area of mutual benefit . we be commit to stay in regular contact as we progress this work . this Government be elect on a mandate to increase national security through strong border , to increase people ' s safety and to increase prosperity through growth . our european friend have mutual interest in those priority . it be those priority that form the three pillar of the reset in our relationship : security , safety and prosperity . and I be pleased to say that on all three of those issue we be make progress . and work be happen right across Government , from the Prime Minister to the Chancellor at the Eurogroup and the Foreign Secretary at the Foreign Affairs Council . there have be nearly 70 direct engagement between UK Ministers and their EU counterpart since we come into government , and we look forward to many more , include at the upcoming UK - EU summit . some people make the false argument that we need to choose either America or Europe , but for this Government the UK ' s national interest be paramount and demand that we work with both . the Prime Minister make the point on Monday evening that the world today be very different from that in 2016 , and even in 2024 . in this time of change , this Government be step up to build alliance in a bid to make people safe and more prosperous . that be the core of our national interest , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . I thank the Paymaster General for advance sight of his statement , and I be grateful to he for come to the House today to give we a rendition of the speech that he give in Brussels on Tuesday — I be sure that it sound even well accompany by a cool glass of Belgian Chardonnay and the promise of a long continental lunch . I note that the Paymaster General describe the Prime Minister ' s meet with 27 EU leader this week as be an " informal retreat " . an informal retreat indeed — that is , one suspect , how these word will come to characterise this Government ' s negotiation with the EU . the last Conservative Government take we out of the EU and , despite the attempt of the Labour party to frustrate the will of the people , into an era of our be a sovereign nation , which have bring major benefit . under the Conservative Government , we secure more than 70 trade deal with other country around the world and , since leave the EU , UK trade have increase from about £ 1 . 04 trillion in 2015 to £ 1 . 74 trillion last year . we end the supremacy of EU law , we deliver on our promise to leave the common fishery policy , and we deliver the fast vaccine roll - out in Europe . we turn a page , and it be vital that the Labour Government do not turn it back . the Paymaster General talk of ruthless pragmatism in our negotiation with the EU . I wonder whether this will be the same ruthless pragmatism that be bring we the Chagos deal . will it be the same ruthless pragmatism that have cause the Government to spend £ 9 . 4 billion a year on above - inflation pay rise for unionised sector without any promise of reform ? perhaps it be the same ruthless pragmatism that see the collapse of the £ 450 million AstraZeneca deal last week . when Labour negotiate , our country lose . I have a great deal of respect for the Paymaster General — I hope he will do well than his friend and colleague . he have talk to we about security , safety and prosperity — all very nice , but enough of the platitude , let we talk about the plan . what do the Government actually want from the negotiation ? what be the tangible gain they hope to make , and what be their red line ? we have hear about the custom union and a single market , but he know that that be not enough . he say the Government " be not hit rewind " , but we know the Government be open to dynamic alignment and a role for the European Court of Justice because he have twice decline to rule that out in this House . go back to the ECJ for GB would be completely unacceptable . on defence , the right hon . Gentleman mention the NATO Secretary - General ' s plea to step up and project strength . be that what the Government will do ? I know the Secretary - General have be ask european country for a marked increase in defence spending . what be the Government ' s response to that ? will he confirm that NATO remain the cornerstone of our defence arrangement ? there be no mention of fish . a word of advice to the right hon . gentleman : fish be very important , and they will be very important in these negotiation . what be the Government ' s position ? will he commit to there be no reduction in our current fishing right ? it be report that our friend and ally in the French Republic have say that nothing can be negotiate until fish be negotiate . will he confirm that he have tell they firmly and politely , " Non " ? there be no mention of free movement . I notice the other day that the Home Secretary rule out a youth mobility scheme . be that government policy or be that just the Home Office freelancing ? I ask because last week in Westminster Hall the right hon . Gentleman seem to be pretty open to the idea . what be the Government ' s position ? on the Pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention — pem — a Minister tell the " Today " programme on 23 January that the Government be " not seek " to join PEM . later that day , the right hon . Gentleman say that the Government " do not currently have any plan to join PEM " . — [ Official Report , 23 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 1091 . ] on 26 January , the Chancellor of the Exchequer say that the Government be consider join PEM , but then on 3 February , the right hon . Gentleman say in answer to a write question from the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) that the Government " do not currently have any plan " . I would be grateful if he could tell we what the Government ' s position be , and if he can not , perhaps he would be good enough just to make up another one . the opposition believe there should be no backsliding on free movement or compulsory asylum transfer . we believe that no new money should be pay to the EU . we believe that no reduction in our current fishing right should be give away . we believe in no rule - taking , dynamic alignment or European Court jurisdiction . we believe in no compromise on the primacy of NATO as the cornerstone of european security . that be what the opposition believe ; it be time for the Government to tell we what they believe . a future Government will not be bind by a bad labour deal . I thank the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his contribution . of course NATO remain the cornerstone of our security ; that have be a cross - party position for decade . he ask about plan and red line . I refer he to our manifesto , which be put to the people last year , that contain those clear red line of no return to freedom of movement , the single market or the custom union . he can see in that example of what the Government be seek to negotiate . the hon . gentleman talk about negotiate international agreement . there be many people from whom I would take advice about international agreement , but I hope the House will forgive I if the Conservatives — the party that manage to send hundred of million of pound to Rwanda and all they get in return be send some volunteer and most of their home Secretaries there — be not at the front of the queue for give advice on how to negotiate international agreement . I give some credit to the Leader of the Opposition , who strike a markedly different tone on this issue from that strike by the hon . Gentleman today . she admit freely that the last Government leave without a plan for growth , and that , frankly , they end up make it up as they go along . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not begin his remark by repeat that apology . perhaps he have a different view than the one take by his leader . the hon . Gentleman talk about the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice , but he be part of a Government who negotiate a role for the European Court of Justice in the Windsor framework . he talk about standard . this Government be commit to the high standard , whether that be on product safety , employment right or consumer right . we believe in a race to the top on standard , not the race to the bottom that would be the dream of the Conservatives . as the Government move forward , our test be the national interest . it be about make Britain safe , more secure and more prosperous . there be another test for the Leader of the Opposition , however . I see that she have put out a social media video about test , which be worth a couple of minute for mild entertainment if nothing else . the test for she be whether she will face down the ideologue in her party . be she go to show some political courage and back the national interest , or be she just go to back down in the face of the ideologue in her party ? on the basis of the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution , I be not optimistic . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I very much welcome the statement from my right hon . friend , but the reality be that he have inherit a deal with the European Union that have knock about 4 % to 5 % off our economic output each year . certainly , the Business and Trade Committee hear in Brussels last week a clear message from the business community that we need to be as specific and as ambitious as we can be ahead of the reset summit with the President of the European Commission . what plan do the Paymaster General have to bring together the british business community and , indeed , the trade union community so that the Prime Minister can go into his summit with President von der Leyen clear - minded about just how ambitious our wealth creator want he to be ? the Chair of the Select Committee be entirely right about the involvement of civil society , trade union and business . I be sure that he will have see the comment of the manage director of food at Marks & Spencer only today , who say : " we wholeheartedly support the Government ' s plan to negotiate a Veterinary Agreement ; the benefit would be significant , there be no discernible downside , and we will offer whatever help we can to aid the negotiation . " there be a time when the conservative party be on the side of business — clearly no more . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I welcome much of the statement ' s content — that the Government be serious in their commitment to reset our broken relationship with the European Union — but what the Liberal Democrats want be action . the European Union be our close neighbour and large trading partner . I sense that the Minister know that we have to get on with repair the trading relationship which be so badly damage under the former Conservative Government , so please let we get on and do it . the botched Brexit deal have be a complete disaster for our country , especially for small business , which have be hold back by ream of red tape and new barrier to trade , cost our economy billion in lose export . the Minister talk of pragmatic negotiation . surely what be pragmatic be to drop the Government ' s red line and agree a new UK - EU custom union . it would be the single big step that the Government could take to unlock growth , and I can not think of anything more pragmatic . liberal Democrats will continue to call on the Government to do the right thing . we be also disappoint by the Home Secretary ' s comment at the weekend on rule out a youth mobility scheme . do that represent the Government ' s stance ? a youth mobility deal would be good for our economy , especially our tourism and hospitality sector , while provide young british people with the opportunity to work and study abroad . it would be a win - win . not only that , it be what the british public want . new polling show that two third of the UK population be in favour of such a scheme . do the Minister not agree that introduce a youth mobility scheme be exactly the kind of pragmatic negotiation that the Government should be prioritise ? I be grateful as always for the contribution of the hon . Lady ; we have a fine debate in Westminster Hall last week . all I would say to she about speed , though , be that this Government be act on the red line in our manifesto around the single market , custom union and freedom of movement , on which we be elect and which deliver this majority last July . I look at the Liberal Democrats manifesto and its plan for the relationship with the European Union , and it contain four step . if we be choose to do this in four different phase , we would be move a lot more slowly than we be at the moment , so I hope the hon . Lady will welcome the progress we be make . I know there be a lot of speculation on the issue of youth mobility . of course , we consider sensible proposal in accordance with our red line , but our position remain the same : there be no plan for a youth mobility scheme , and we have be clear that there will be no return to freedom of movement . I guess I should not be surprised to hear the Conservatives try to defend an impossibly bad deal for british business , which be why I be so relieved that the grown - up be go to Europe and work out what be in the national interest . may I press the Minister on something that it be very clearly in the national interest to resolve with our european partner ? National Grid estimate that it will cost the UK Exchequer £ 5 billion to £ 8 billion over this Parliament to have a differential emission trading scheme between we and Europe . pollution do not respect border , and we all want to tackle the climate crisis . can he confirm that resolve the issue around the carbon border adjustment mechanism will be on the agenda for the summit in May ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who I know have campaign on this issue . energy be very much a priority for the discussion — specifically the emission trading scheme and linkage . the exist trade and co - operation agreement commit the UK and the EU to consider that . the Minister rightly speak about the importance of NATO , which be key to our defence strategy . however , I have real concern about the negotiation take place on the defence strategy and on work with the European Union . we on the NATO Parliamentary Assembly have often speak about the role of PESCO — the permanent structured co - operation — and the procurement strategy . different country procure different element can run into some constitutional problem , which can be a problem over generation of procurement , and it be important that protocol be make now for how those two thing interact . I ask the Minister not to sign up to european programme without ensure that we build in protocol , so that PESCO can not undermine article 5 decision . as it stand , the ideology of PESCO stand in the way of article 5 decision . if the Minister would like to speak about this far , I would be happy to meet he . I would be more than happy to speak to the right hon . Gentleman — I acknowledge his expertise in these matter . he refer to interoperability , which be hugely important . he will have see that the Prime Minister meet the Secretary - General of NATO on Monday . that send out a signal that NATO remain absolutely fundamental ; it be the foundation stone of post - war security and of our approach go forward . what we seek to do will be complementary to NATO , to build on our collective strength in these dangerous time . british business be clear that they want the Government to cut paperwork , tackle the trade barrier that they face , and lower the cost of sell good and service to our trading partner in the EU . the Leader of the opposition say last week that the Conservative Government leave the EU without a plan . do the Minister agree that that be typical of the chaotic economic management of the Conservatives , and that once again it be up to the Labour Government to clean up their mess ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . at least the Leader of the Opposition be candid about the chaotic decision make under the previous Government . together with our friend and neighbour in the EU , we have over £ 800 billion - worth of trade . it be clearly in our national interest to lower trade barrier pragmatically in that space . I be pleased that this Government be move away from the ideological fantasy of the Conservative Government and take a pragmatic approach to EU - UK relation . passive divergence — do nothing when regulation move forward in the EU — be increasingly a concern for british business . it lead to huge trade barrier in emission trading , for example , which be badly hurt the UK economy . what do the Paymaster General propose to do about passive divergence ? we be not do nothing . there be area where this Government will be in a world - lead space . let we look , for example , at what we be do on employment right and product safety . as I indicate early to the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , the Government believe in a race to the top on standard , not a race to the bottom . I welcome the increase number of british officer now work with Europol . will the Minister tell I more about how we will work with our european partner to tackle transactional crime such as people smuggling and drug trafficking ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I be pleased that we have already increase our National Crime Agency presence at Europol . the speed with which we can share datum be hugely important . when crime be commit , those early hour and day be so important for catch those responsible . we want to work with the EU and international partner so that criminal have no place to hide on our continent . those in the fishing industry will have note not only that the Minister do not mention fish in his statement , but that he do not respond to the question from the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , about fishing . will he give an assurance to those in the industry that there will be no sell - out — whether on fishing ground , quota , day at sea and so on — and that he will do absolutely nothing to worsen the industry ? the hon . Gentleman be right to mention fishing . I can tell he first and foremost that I will engage with the fishing industry and its representative about the issue that they face , particularly in sell into european market . we will of course advocate for the interest of our fisher , and ensure that we fulfil our legal obligation on the marine environment . as a result of the previous Government ' s bad deal , company in my constituency tell I about the impact that the barrier to trade with the EU be have on their business , hit profit and affect job . do the Minister agree that it would be foolhardy for this Government not to tackle those barrier and back british business ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we speak to business , and they want few barrier to trade . it be astonishing that the modern conservative party do not seem to share that view . I welcome the Minister ' s statement on close co - operation with the EU on defence and security , but on the day the Bank of England cut its growth forecast from 1 . 5 % to 0 . 75 % , do the Minister agree that the single big thing we could do to turbocharge our economy in the medium and long - term be to form a custom union with the EU ? we be elect on a manifesto that set out clear red line , but of course there be significant economic advantage , not just to the United Kingdom but to citizen all across Europe , in the reset that we be now look to take forward . whether in make our citizen more prosperous , or in make they safe and more secure , that work will deliver for Britain . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement . isn ' t it nice to finally have a Government who want to work with , rather than alienate , our european partner ? in that spirit , do he agree that there be a chasm between the thin , last - minute deal that the previous Government negotiate — which the Leader of the Opposition now deride as a deal " without a plan " — and the red line that he and his Government have set out ? that be the landing zone that I hope the Government will get to as soon as possible . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the chaos of the previous Government do extraordinary damage to this country on the international stage , and frankly it sully our international reputation . I be pleased that the Leader of the Opposition at least understand the chaos that the Conservatives cause our economy . my hon . friend be absolutely right : this Government take a completely different approach . we be elect on a manifesto that we will now seek to deliver . I thank the Minister for his answer to all our question — he always reply in a positive fashion . as for my question , he probably know what be come , but I will ask it anyway . the thorn in the side of any restoration of good faith with the EU lie in the abhorrent Northern Ireland protocol and the EU ' s grip on Northern Ireland . that may well exclude Northern Ireland from any trade deal with the United States of America , with which we already have multimillion pound supply deal in place . will the Minister confirm that allow Northern Ireland to have her place in the United Kingdom , and an end to the game that be hurt the people of Northern Ireland both financially and constitutionally , be at the top of the agenda for good relation ? I would like to reassure the hon . Gentleman that Northern Ireland be always at the forefront of my mind . since I come into office , I have visit Belfast twice ; I chair the inter - ministerial group , which obviously include the Minister and Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland ; and the Windsor framework taskforce sit within the Cabinet Office , so I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the interest of the people of Northern Ireland be fundamental to this Government . I would also suggest to he that successful negotiation of a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement would be of significant benefit to the people of Northern Ireland . I welcome the Paymaster General ' s statement today . I notice that he say that there be currently no plan for a youth mobility scheme with the European Union . as a former Erasmus student myself , may I urge he to look at the scheme that be already in place with country range from South Korea to Uruguay , Australia and New Zealand , and the immense cultural , economic and societal benefit that come from those scheme , which do not rub up against the Government ' s red line on single market access , custom union membership or freedom of movement ? my hon . friend make a powerful point , and if we look back over recent decade , there have be many people in this House who have have the benefit of study abroad . as my hon . friend have also point to , though , the red line upon which this Government be elect be fundamental . I thank the Paymaster General for that statement . Backbench Business Coalfield Communities Order . this be a very well - subscribe debate , so there will be an immediate time limit of five minute for Back - Bench contribution . that , of course , do not apply to the mover of the debate , but I hope he bear that comment in mind . I beg to move , that this House have consider Government support for coalfield community . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . as ever , I will seek to follow your instruction , as gently as they be put . I be grateful for the opportunity to lead this debate this afternoon , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it time . it will give member of this House the opportunity to make the case for the coalfield community up and down our United Kingdom to get the opportunity , investment , focus and support that they need and deserve . Newcastle - under - Lyme be nestle within the north Staffordshire coalfield . our ancient and loyal borough have a rich history that be intertwine with coalmining . in the early 20th century , our coalfield support more than 50 pit , employ more than 20 , 000 man and boy . Newcastle - under - Lyme be home to several notable colliery , include Silverdale colliery , which be among the last deep mine in the area and close in December 1998 . the pit wheel monument stand proud as a reminder of the past and give hope for the future . we also have the Minnie pit monument up in Audley , in the northern part of my constituency . just a fortnight ago , I be privileged to have the opportunity to attend the commemorative event to mark the 130th anniversary of the Diglake colliery disaster , which take place in Bignall end in Newcastle - under - Lyme on 14 January 1895 . that disaster see 77 man and boy lose their life , and be commemorate every year . it be a wonderful opportunity to reflect and remember , and I be very grateful to the Reverend Joy Ventom and the church warden , lead by Bob Alcock , at Audley Methodist church for host such a brilliant weekend of remembrance , feature the excellent Audley brass band . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this really important debate . he be reflect on the historic past of the coalfield , which be absolutely integral to any of we who represent coalfield community . however , do he agree that what people in the coalfield want be not mainly a focus on their past , but a Government with a sense of ambition for their future ? what we really need to see in the coalfield be that the Government ' s industrial strategy recognise the unique contribution that they can make , so that we can focus on a bright future for our coalfield as well as our proud past . I thank my hon . friend . during the election campaign , he come to support I and see many of the community to which I be refer , and I agree with he wholeheartedly . it be important that we know where we have come from , but it be more important that we set the path to where we want to go . I congratulate the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme on secure this debate . through his wife if nothing else , he will know the strong industrial connection with coalmining at Ballycastle and Coalisland — the name be a giveaway . some of those rock be some 330 million year old . do the hon . Member agree that while these issue be devolve , it be crucial that we have a joint UK strategy to protect our coalmine town and village across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . my wife be a wise and wonderful woman , so he will be reassure to know that I learn lot from she . I agree that we be one United Kingdom , and that this issue require one approach . at the commemoration last month to which I refer , the order of service contain a poem from Captain John William Roberts , whose grandfather die in the disaster and whose daughter , Maisie Farrell , be at the memorial with I despite suffer a stroke in recent month . I be pleased to say that she be on the road to recovery . staffordshire woman be make of strong stuff — I should know , as I be bear to one — and I wish Maisie well in her recovery to full health . it just so happen that Maisie be Newcastle - under - Lyme bear and breed , and be a close friend of my family . I want to share a small part of that poem with the House : " diglake disaster : that bitter day in January , Christmas not long go we go to work joke and singing — clog echo to mirth how could we guess early , subterranean Niagara sweep lad away by the nature of its vector , trap mate without escape ? while we struggle in icy water , choke for clear air , agony of heart , burn in our mind we be separate for ever from love one . this mixed group of man , not able to see Easter — " it end , " Bequeath our generation act , they know we could perform — advance wisdom , well leader , unselfish goal thus , take up the human charter : embrace our task . the word of Captain John William Roberts , ACF . " what a tribute those word be to the sacrifice of those man and boy who die , and to the share experience of miner right across our United Kingdom , from South Wales to the east midland and from Yorkshire to the jewel in our kingdom ' s crown in north Staffordshire . those miner work hard , they power our economy , and they show what grit , determination , dignity , strength and commitment look like . as my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) allude to , we have a duty to give back to the community that give we the man and boy , and the strong woman right beside they , without whom our country would never have develop in the way that it have . rise — rise — I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) first , because I be smart , and then I will give way to the right hon . member from Scotland . very wise . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . I be be contact by a grow number of mineworker constituent who be enrol in the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , as be my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare ( Gerald Jones ) , and all those constituent be understandably disappointed that they have not receive the same justice as their former colleague in the mineworker pension scheme . that inequality be unfair , particularly as almost 5 , 000 woman who work in the industry and who be pay less be in the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . do my hon . friend agree that urgent action be need to bring some parity to the situation ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend , and I will touch gently on that issue . her intervention speak to her commitment to stand up for those most in need of a strong voice . I will now happily give way to my friend from Scotland . I commend the hon . member on secure this debate . I agree 100 % with the hon . member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . I have many constituent who be in exactly the same position , although the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) do not mention Scotland , which have a proud mining tradition . community in my constituency , such as Sanquhar , Kirkconnel , Kelloholm , Coalburn and the Douglas valley , have often feel very overlooked . do the hon . Member agree that often in these community , people be still forward - look , want to make those community turn around and be regenerate ? they have not give up on they , and the government — in London and in Edinburgh — should not either . I be grateful to my friend from Scotland for make that point . I look forward to work with he , and to his support the government as we seek to do exactly as he say — get these community back on track , in the place and with the support that they need and deserve . last Friday , I meet the widow and two of the five daughter of the late Jimmy Flynn at the weekly coffee morning at St Giles ' church in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I hope that one day , you will join I there , Madam Deputy Speaker — they do a good fry in the morning . [ interruption . ] not quite an Ulster fry , but we look forward to join the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for one of those soon . Mr Flynn be a miner , and over a cuppa , his widow and daughter tell I about his life , his work , and the fact that their dad and their husband — alongside all those who work down the pit — work " bloody hard every day . " that they do . I can not talk about Newcastle - under - Lyme ' s mining history without celebrate the fantastic Apedale heritage centre , which be on the site of a former coalmine . I also want to acknowledge the Apedale valley light railway ; I very much enjoy ride on a steam train on a recent visit . despite the coalmine cease to operate , their legacy remain an integral part of my community , our heritage and the live experience . that legacy reflect a community build on hard work and industrial prowess by good people , drive by decency , respect , strength and skill . I be proud to honour the memory of those who go before we , and to represent their descendant and their ambition in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) have have to head home to meet worker at Royal Stafford , who have have bad news this week . he have ask I to pay tribute to the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which have support a number of community organisation in his constituency . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , who have be a steadfast and diligent champion of former miner and coalfield community up and down our United Kingdom . it have be a pleasure work with he , and with Sophie Jackson in his office — and with my team , since my election to this place — on get justice for member of the mineworker pension scheme , which my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) mention . I thank the Prime Minister and all those on the Front Bench for the leadership that they have show . I want to acknowledge Professor Steve Fothergill and Chris Whitwood for the excellent work that they do support the Labour group of coalfield MPs — a group on which I lead for the west midland . some 5 . 7 million people live in Britain ' s coalfield — one in 10 people in England and Scotland , and one in four people in Wales — but almost half of coalfield community be among the 30 % most deprived community in the United Kingdom . yesterday , I have a very helpful discussion with Tash and Roshni from the Local Trust . we talk through the figure in my community — in Cross Heath , Knutton and Silverdale , where the challenge of tackle injustice and inequality be most serious for we locally , just as it be serious in place across the country . I would be grateful if the Minister touch on the community wealth fund , and how we can ensure that money from it be direct at support disadvantaged neighbourhood . where will the money go , and how will it be allocate ? education have such an important role to play . I be at St Thomas Boughey school in Halmer end last week , and I hear about the challenge that it face when it come to funding , staff recruitment and retention , and ensure that the smart young people who go to the school can work and live in , and contribute to , the community in which they be raise . I look forward to welcome some of those young people to Parliament later this month . my community have a university , Keele University . how do we build a bridge between the funding that university can attract and young people who want to study in the community that they live in ? as my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East say , we need justice for the British Coal staff superannuation scheme member , and I have tell the Prime Minister this directly . the BCSSS have more than 40 , 000 member who formerly work in the mining industry , include a number of my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and I have promise that I will fight their corner . I urge minister to speed up effort to transfer the £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve in the BCSSS to the member who earn it , deserve it and need it , as more and more former miner die each year . that be important , because a significant number of BCSSS member be require to transfer to the BCSSS , as we have hear . if they have not be force to move , they would have have access to their own money when this new Labour Government make the right call on the MPS . they deserve it , and this Government , although they have be in power for only a few short month , must now get on with it . I will do whatever I can to help . as my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield say , we want real action , not empty word ; we want a proper commitment , not hollow promise ; and we want our community properly invest in , not forget . a new Government with a majority of this size present we with an opportunity to finally get the settlement we need , the focus my constituent deserve , and the future my constituent have earn . my hon . friend be make an excellent opening speech on a topic that be so important for all our community . I be sure that he be as shocked as I be to learn of the severe health inequality in coalfield community ; the average life expectancy be around a year less than the national average , and around three year less than that in the south - east . for the north - east , it be even bad . do he agree that for these community , these health inequality be the long - term legacy , and that be why we need to ensure that coalfield community be properly support , even in this day ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend , who be 100 % correct . I be look forward to work with she to make sure that we get the progress that we all want to see , up and down the country . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be mindful of your instruction , but I want to touch briefly on four issue that I know many colleague will expand on , and I want to leave time , believe it or not , for everyone else to have their say . first , on worklessness , a common assumption be that unemployment , however define , be no long a problem . so far as the former coalfield be concern , this simply be not true , but the nature of the unemployment problem face community such as ours have change . in the 1980 and 1990 , in the wake of pit closure , there be large number of people out of work on unemployment - relate benefit . these day , as the Department for Work and Pensions datum present in " the State of the Coalfields 2024 " report show , an exceptionally large number of people out of work be on other benefit . across former coalfield community such as mine , 16 % of all adult of working age be out of work on benefit . the big number be those who be out of work on incapacity benefit — there be just over 400 , 000 people in that situation in former coalfield across the country , and people in that group account for around one in nine of all adult of work age . that go to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . it reflect poor health — I mention health inequality in the House this week — but also hide unemployment , because in part of the country where good job be more readily available , many of those with health problem or disability be able to secure such job . estimate from Sheffield Hallam University point to a real level of unemployment in the former coalfield that be double the rate in south - east England , which say everything that we need to know . a consequence of the shortfall in local job opportunity be a reliance on commute to neighbouring area and far afield . net out - commuting from the former coalfield — the balance between flow in each direction — account for about 350 , 000 people . the job available in former coalfield also tend to be less well pay , with 53 % of employ resident work in manual job compare with a GB average of 46 % , and just 36 % here in the capital . it be important to note that the average hourly earning of coalfield resident be around 6 % low than the national average , as we have hear . we have serious work to do . my challenge to those on the Front Bench be this : we need strong policy focus on grow the local economy in former coalfield , include by tackle high level of economic inactivity . I thank my hon . friend for secure this really important debate . would he agree that the example of Nissan , in the neighbouring constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , show that when high - quality manufacturing job be put into former coalfield area , people from those area be among the most widely respect workforce in the world ? global investor think that they be among the good workforce they can get . the tragedy be that there be not more company like Nissan in former coalmining area . my hon . friend be right . those workforce be not just respect ; they be brilliant , skilled , smart and hard - work . they deserve the opportunity that he and my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield have note , and that I know all colleague in this House want to see . my point about policy to tackle high level of economic inactivity lead I to the next important issue when it come to improve Government support for coalfield community , which be local growth funding . we all want to see our economy grow , and the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have my support in push that agenda , but growth must be drive and share across all part of our United Kingdom . as the Government prepare for the spending review , I urge those on the Front Bench to ensure that , at the very least , present spending be maintain . the primary focus of local growth funding need to be economic development and regeneration , drive by a mix of investment in people , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , in place , in infrastructure and in business support . the investment in our community should be fairly allocate on the basis of need , not competitive bidding , and there should be full and timely consultation on the allocation formula . funding need to be allocate over a long term than be the case under previous government . the commitment in the Budget to set five - year capital budget , to be extend every two year at regular spending review , be a welcome step . the Government ' s intention to rationalise the number of local growth fund be also welcome , because it make sense to allocate funding at the sub - regional level at which most local economy operate . some will be surprised to hear I say this , but in some way we need less government . we need a light touch in manage this vital funding . the expertise , knowledge and experience of local people and local leader , include elect mayor — the Minister will enjoy my saying that , for once — should be respect , and they should be give great discretion , within a broad framework set by the Government . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , but I be get the look already . my hon . friend have mention commuting and infrastructure . follow on from the point make by my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , those thing be important in connect people from Durham to job in Washington at Nissan , and at other great company there , such as Rolls - Royce and BAE Systems . do he agree that there have be under - investment for year in the infrastructure that he be talk about , and especially in transport infrastructure , which make project such as the Leamside line , which our Mayor of the North - East support , so important for create the connectivity that we need ? my hon . friend be correct . we be talk about less government . as the Minister know , I have some concern about local government reorganisation , and I look forward to speak to he about that in great detail . that say , I call on all local leader in Staffordshire to engage with the subject seriously , respectfully and wisely . as we have hear from intervention , we need to focus on the livelihood of the many , not the job and power play of the elect few . I turn to the Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation , a national body that should not be confuse with local miner ' welfare institute , which be independent charity . concern about CISWO have be air on several occasion by a number of colleague . I have meet member of its board and its chief executive , and it would be wrong for those concern not to be note in the debate . I urge the CISWO leadership to consider how they might well support local welfare scheme when they run into difficulty , include look at recycle fund locally when land and property be sell off , and at how CISWO might engage well with local authority to support regeneration initiative in former mining community . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust get to work in 1999 in response to recommendation make by the coalfield taskforce , which be establish by the late Lord Prescott . as we know , Lord Prescott be lay to rest last week , and I acknowledge his service to our country . the trust ' s focus over the last 25 year have be to support community live with the consequence of the rapid mine closure programme that take place from the mid - 1980 onwards , under the Government of Mrs Thatcher . it have invest hundred of million of pound , reach over 2 million people with community project and activity aim at improve health , skill and employment opportunity . it also support thousand of vital community asset and organisation . between 1999 and 2015 , the CRT receive funding from the UK , Scottish and Welsh Governments for its work . it continue to receive funding from the Scottish and Welsh Governments , although that have reduce in recent year , but it no long get funding from the UK Government . that have have a huge impact on its ability to deliver across England , and result in a significant reduction in its programme of support . where the previous Conservative Government fail , I urge this new Labour Government to deliver . I urge Ministers to look at a sustainable , long - term and comprehensive package of funding for the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . will the Minister arrange for I , my hon . friend the Member for Easington , and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust to meet relevant minister at the early opportunity ? today I want to honour the proud and rich history of mining in Newcastle - under - Lyme and north Staffordshire — a region where generation of hard - work man and woman carve out a legacy of resilience , determination , and community . I want we to remember the huge potential , and the brilliant people who deserve the high - quality public service . they deserve the investment and focus that our big city get , and they deserve a Government who will never walk by on the other side . this debate give we a chance to reflect on the past , and to invest in the future . as we remember the miner who risk their life every day , we acknowledge the role that they play in shape the industrial strength of my region and the nation as a whole . their sacrifice remind we of the value of hard work , perseverance , and the unyielding spirit of north Staffordshire and our United Kingdom . we have a responsibility to lead where they leave off , and we have no time to waste . I refer member to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a miner from the age of 17 until I come to this place — a period of over 30 year — and I also have a connection with the National Union of Mineworkers . it will be crystal clear from this debate that there be an absolute need to continue with support for the coalfield community , whether that be the Orgreave truth and justice campaign , the pardoning of the sack miner , CISWO — a fantastic charity that need a complete and utter overhaul — the MPS , or whether it be look again at the BCSSS scheme , the general social deprivation and poverty in the community , or the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . those issue will be cover in much more detail by my hon . friend , but I want to take the time I have to paint a picture and take people back to the proud past , because we in the coalfield community be very proud of our past . the community be build from the wage packet of the miner . what we have lose be something we have to describe today , as well as what we want back to fulfil that pride in our community and the people we proudly represent . we be the people who fuel the industrial revolution , and the community be savagely destroy by a Government drive by political ideology . there be little that the colliery do not touch , and when I leave school there be pretty much full employment . when the school open their gate , the pit open theirs . follow in the footstep of our forebear , we feel like we be contribute to the wealth of the nation — we really be contribute to the wealth of this nation , and many pay the ultimate sacrifice in do so . People be give the fine apprenticeship you could ever imagine — qualification in work underground that could be transfer across the globe , and training in skill that no piece of paper could ever quantify . I learn from the very good . my education from the age of 17 be from miner with huge intellect . Most be without a single write qualification , and write off as uneducated by people who should know well , but these be absolute working - class genius , believe I . it do not stop at political debate . the man who we look up to impart to we many life skill . they teach we the value of work . I be talk about miner underground who teach the young generation come through about the value of work , the value of contribute to our local community , and the peril of step out of line . the coalfield largely police themselves , and if you get into trouble on a night out , you be in trouble when you go back to work . employment at the pit give miner and their family the security of a colliery house — good - quality terrace housing that stretch the length of the community , and all own by the coal board . with decent rent , those house be keep in good order and give the security of a home to miner . those be basic thing , and local community , coalfield community , be now suffer greatly because of the huge loss . the community have a thriving social scene , and if someone want to wet their whistle , there be plenty of place where they could have a pint . the club be go — clubland have disappear , miner ' welfare be disappear , and we have to get something back . the community enjoy a whole host of pursuit , whether that be whippet racing , pigeon fancy , leek growing , onion growing , billiard , pigeon racing , jazz band , brass band — it be amazing what the miner be able to contribute to this country . that be why we need specific intervention from the Government into those coalfield community that be die on their foot . we should never forget the contribution that coalfield community deliver to the country , often at a great cost , and they really need that levelling - up that be constantly promise . I congratulate my good and hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this important debate on coalfield community . it be very oversubscribed , and I wish we have more time . I thank the Backbench Business Committee , the Industrial Communities Alliance , Coalfields Regeneration Trust , and the House of Commons Library for the useful briefing paper it produce . I also thank my fellow coalfield mps for their sterling work on behalf of their constituent . our mining community not only have a proud past , but with the right leadership and investment we have an exciting future . after 14 year of Conservative Government , coalfield community have be leave grapple with relentless austerity and a rigged levelling - up agenda , which in practice mean that resource never reach the place in my community that need they most . today , I want to talk not only about the challenge that our community face , but the potential within they to drive economic growth , attract investment and create job that can transform life and revitalise local economy . some 30 year after the pit closure , the talent , resilience and ambition of our coalfield community remain undiminished . it be not just about right the wrong of the past , but harness the energy in the community to build a strong , green and more prosperous economy . I must say something about the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . to their credit , my government — this Labour Government — have already demonstrate their commitment to coalfield community . for too long , successive government have deny pension justice to retire miner and their widow . money that should have be provide security in retirement be instead fill the Treasury ' s coffer . my hon . Friend generously thank coalfield mps , but I would like to repay the compliment to he , because his leadership on the mineworker pension scheme have be exemplary . we be all happy to support he as the chair of the APPG . I put on record how important a part he play in that significant commitment that this Government make . my hon . friend be kind and generous , and I thank he for that , but this be not about I ; it be about the community we represent . we have to give credit that , at the recent Budget , the Chancellor right the wrong on miner ' pension and the MPS and deliver on Labour ' s manifesto commitment on the mineworker pension scheme surplus . the decision to transfer the MPS investment reserve fund be a moral obligation , and it result in an economic boost . in my constituency , the decision be inject £ 5 . 6 million into the local economy every year through increase pension payment to the 3 , 755 MPS member — retire miner and widow — in east Durham . that money be now be spend in our high street , local shop , caf é s and pub , boost the economy , create job and support growth . however , this pension justice issue be only partially settle . there be a similar issue with the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , which have 40 , 000 beneficiary who be former British Coal staff and their widow . since 1994 , the Government have take out £ 3 . 1 billion from that scheme , without contribute a penny . I say with all respect to the Minister , and specifically to the Treasury , that it be time to release the £ 2 . 3 billion BCSSS investment reserve , so that all former mining staff can receive a pension uplift . time be of the essence . thousand of retire miner have already die , with 2 , 000 in the BCSSS pass away each year , include many woman who be among the lowest - pay worker in the coal industry , have work in pit canteen like my mother , or in administration and auxiliary role . when we say number , they be meaningless , perhaps , to civil servant and ministerial adviser , but I know these man and woman . they be man like Eamon Kavanagh , now in his 80 , who be an absolute stalwart , not just of Murton colliery , but the Seaham collierie ; Bill Waites , who be a good friend of my late father ; and my dear mother , who be 88 . time be of the essence to settle this issue . it be about fairness , pension justice and put money back into community that power an industrial revolution that make Britain great , fuelled economic growth , and be the foundation on which our nation ' s wealth be build . on a positive note , we be move from coal to clean energy . we can lead the green industrial revolution . the closure of the coalmine mark the end of an era , but just as we power the last industrial revolution , it be now time for our community to lead the next one , as we transition to a clean and green economy . indeed , in east Durham , we have already be lay the foundation for this future . mine water heat , an innovative low - carbon energy solution , be be develop in Seaham and Horden . if properly support , it could provide sufficient heat for all property in the UK ' s coalfield area , offer a sustainable and affordable alternative to traditional energy . then there be Power Roll , a start - up base on the Jade enterprise park in Murton that be pioneer lightweight , flexible solar technology that do not rely on rare earth metal . this be british innovation at its fine , ready for reinvestment to scale up production in a gigafactory . with the right support , we can create new green - collar job . we have hear about white collar and blue collar ; let we have green - collar job and position the UK as a global leader in renewable technology . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this important debate . I be proud to see so many colleague speak so passionately about their community . despite year of under - investment from the Conservatives , most of whom could not be bother to show up to the debate today , it be nice to see people on the Government Benches who feel the same commitment to rejuvenate their community and , importantly , to celebrate the social , economic and cultural contribution of the area we have grow up in and now have the privilege of represent . I be there when Kellingley , the last deep pit in the UK , close a week before Christmas back in 2015 . I speak to some of the 450 miner who have be make redundant , whose father and grandfather have work down the pit . the devastating , ruthless impact of closure be clear to I that day than ever before . the mine be not just a place of work , but the heart of the community . build around it be school , sport team , brass band , social club , place of worship , family , friendship , hope , security and prosperity . when Kellingley close , I see on the face of the man and their family the fear that the death of the industry would take the community and the culture with it — the culture and the industry of his father , and his father before he . however , they reject victimhood . the next day , the miner , the family , their friend and their community march together and meet at the miner ' welfare club . for too long , people in post - industrial northern town be promise nothing but empty slogan . successive Conservative Governments ignore they , neglect they and insult they , but they refuse to be forget . although Kellingley be not in my constituency , many mine like it be close in similar circumstance and with similar result right across Ossett and Denby Dale . I can not help but imagine that the scene be similar on each occasion . caphouse colliery in my constituency close in 1985 . in that refusal to be forget , the mine be convert into a museum , conceive , create and now staff by ex - miner . it be run by Lynn Dunning , who embody the often - forget role of woman during the strike . we must remember those who help heat our nation for generation . with good old Yorkshire miner take people down the shaft at the mining museum , there be not a well place to remember our rich industrial history . yes , that be a plug to visit the National Coal Mining Museum in my constituency . it remain a place where we be remind of our community ' s contribution to this country . every time I visit , I be fill with pride , anger and determination : pride in my region ' s national contribution and the spirit of hard work , humour and solidarity still present in the ex - miner who remain there today ; anger at the arrogance and ignorance of previous government who decimate our community without a thought for what would come next ; and determination to change this great injustice and to give our community not just what it need , but what it have earn . we do not need to just preserve the legacy of coalfield community ; we must also fight for the dignity of retire miner who make that proud legacy possible . other member have speak eloquently about the action take to end the historical injustice of mineworker and their pension , which former mineworker in my patch often raise with I . my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) have be fight for his constituent , Tony Rock , whose compensation case in the past few year have be delay and delay by the Department for Work and Pensions as his health worsen . that sort of case must become a thing of the past , and my labour colleague and I will keep fight until retire member across Yorkshire receive the dignity in retirement they deserve . I know that this Government share that feel and be act , and I be proud to run on a manifesto that make a concrete commitment to miner and mining community . this Government ' s approach must go far , and do , to revive these community for generation to come . that be why we be invest in school and hospital , road and rail , high street and home . we be restore pride in our town centre , combat antisocial behaviour and crime . we be finance the green industry of the future to ensure that what happen to the mineworker never happen again . we be committed to grow the economy in town right across our country , and not just London . as people in my area know all too well , strong community must be nurture generation after generation , but people in post - industrial northern town such as mine often feel ignore and forget by the powerful . it be my job in the House to ensure that those thought and feeling be hear . I be committed to never treat they with the same injustice they experience at the hand of uncaring , short - termist conservative Governments . I be pleased that we have the opportunity to debate such important matter . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure the time and commend he on an excellent speech . in the village and town that make up the wonderful constituency of Airdrie and Shotts , a common theme consistently arise when knock on door : the memory of coalmining , the community spirit and cohesion that exist , and the suffering and devastation feel as a consequence of the cruel Tory policy of rapid deindustrialisation . Airdrie and Shotts , like other constituency we have hear mention , sit at the centre of an industrial heartland : in this case , central Scotland . in such community , young man and woman enter skilled employment in their own home town . we be ask the Government to support far the regeneration of coalfield community , use modern educational and employment technique , in the hope that that will become a reality once again . the work people of Airdrie and Shotts have be treat as an afterthought for too long . they have be let down by Conservative and SNP Governments who act in self - interest rather than the interest of the nation . I be delighted that we now have a Government who will ensure that the people of Airdrie and Shotts can mark the legacy of its coalmine past but strengthen , modernise and deliver a more prosperous future . in my family , we remember my late grandfather Jimmy Stevenson , who work down the pit for over 40 year ; my late father - in - law Drew McCracken , who work in mine across central Scotland for 40 year , scramble and dig in 18 - inch seam , and who carry his brother up the mine after he be kill ; and my brother - in - law Derek McCracken , who work for 10 year in the mine around Plains and Caldercruix . we owe it to they and the other miner to create a new future . it often go unnoticed that the inequality face in former coalfield be staggering . while there be many mean of measure the scale of challenge face former coalfield , I find particular interest in a figure provide in " the State of the coalfield 2024 " . it highlight that Ayrshire and Lanarkshire , which be analyse together for the purpose of the report , be the joint low area for job for people of work age , with 44 employee job for every 100 working - age people . indeed , Ayrshire and Lanarkshire witness an above average out - of - work benefit claimant rate and be identify in the report as area where extensive deprivation exist . that be a direct consequence of 14 year of Tory Government : they deepen the inequality that have scar constituency such as mine for decade . however , Scotland as a whole be a country where health inequality be feel on an unimaginable scale , where the inequality be deep and divisive in equal measure and where there be no bad time to be poor and in need of healthcare . with one in 14 people in Airdrie and Shotts alone in bad or very bad health , the former coalfield that I represent be hold back by ill health because of a Scottish Government who have allow NHS waiting list to soar . almost one in six scot be wait , wait and wait . there be no doubt that the challenge face my constituent be significant . there be social and economic barrier , because government have not undertake anywhere near enough work to break they down , but I firmly believe in the potential of Airdrie and Shotts and its people . it be a constituency with skilled worker , talented young people full of potential and an old generation who remember its industrial and coalmine past while want the good for its future . I thank the Coalfields Regeneration Trust for the work it do to raise awareness of the struggle face in constituency such as Airdrie and Shotts . I must also thank the UK Labour Government for deliver a budget that see Scotland receive its large funding since devolution and a pay rise for work people across my constituency . I look forward to work with the Minister and other to regenerate former coalfield and constituency such as mine . I encourage the Government to work closely with the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which do excellent work in our community , as we embark on a plan for change , away from the year of social , economic and health barrier block the progress of our former coalfield community . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this important and timely debate . I echo his comment about our hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for his work champion our coalfield community , which , until this Government be elect , have be forget . I speak as the proud daughter of a former coalminer on behalf of the coalfield community in Amber Valley and thousand of former coal industry worker across the country . my dad and the constituent of Amber Valley have a common link : a rich mining heritage . whether it be constituent like John Edwards from Heanor , Colin Smith from Langley Mill or Ian Walker from Ripley , all part of Amber Valley share this common bond . our community be build on the hard work and dedication of our mineworker , engineer , technician and support staff who power our nation through challenging time , often at great personal risk . in October , we see long - overdue justice serve for the member of the mineworker pension scheme when the Government agree to return its £ 1 . 5 billion investment reserve . that decision result in a well - deserve 32 % increase in pension , and an average increase of £ 29 a week for each member . that be already improve the life of many of the former 772 mineworker in Amber Valley . it have directly benefit my family , too , and I know that it mean a lot to my dad to get that recognition . however , the same can not be say about the member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . the hard work of those engineer , technician and support staff ensure that man like my dad who go down the pit every day return safely to the surface . indeed , some member of the BCSSS also work underground . we have do right by the MPS man who go down the pit , but have we truly support the woman , who be often pay less than their male counterpart and be an equal part of the coalfield community ? as my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) point out , woman in the coal industry — the majority of whom be BCSSS member — deserve pension justice , too . the parallel between the MPS and the BCSSS be obvious . both scheme be establish during the privatisation of British Coal in 1994 , with the Government act as guarantor , yet while the MPS member have see their investment reserve rightly return , BCSSS member such as my constituent John , Colin and Ian continue to wait . the trustee of the BCSSS have formally request the return of the £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve . that request be not only reasonable but consistent with the precedent set by the MPS decision . this be a matter not just of financial contribution but of justice , fairness and honour the contribution of all those who help build our nation ' s energy infrastructure . I urge the Government to act swiftly and decisively . let we commit to a full review of the BCSSS surplus share agreement and transfer the investment reserve to its rightful owner : the scheme member . that action would provide a significant boost to the pension of more than 40 , 000 former coal industry staff , enhance their financial security and quality of life in retirement . I urge the Government to consider quick action , as many in receipt of those pension be in their 80 or old . it be heartbreake that thousand of miner , include colleague of my dad , do not live long enough to receive the benefit of the MPS surplus . I know my father would not want his colleague , who keep he safe and support he , to be forget . I urge the Government to consider right this historic inequality , so that all member of our coalfield community get the justice that they deserve . it be an honour to speak in this debate as the Member of Parliament for Cannock Chase , an area deeply proud of its mining heritage . colliery be our dominant industry from the mid - 19th century right up until the early 1990 . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this debate and enable we to speak on behalf of our coalfield community . as a fellow Staffordshire MP , I know that he be a dedicated advocate for the town and village that he represent . he refer to the Diglake mining disaster ; in Cannock Chase on 1 October we will mark the 95th anniversary of the Grove colliery disaster in the North Lanes area of Norton Canes , which claim the life of 14 man . my constituent be rightly proud of where they live . often , generation remain in the area for their whole life , which show the real sense of community and local identity . however , my constituent often tell I that we desperately need investment in the bread - and - butter infrastructure that support thrive community , such as capacity at GPs , dentist and primary school , good quality road and regeneration of our town centre . regeneration be vital because in all too many coalfield community there be still a feeling that , decade on , we have not all recover from the rapid destruction of the coalmine industry in the 1980 and 1990 . at the 2019 general election , many of my constituent be tempt by the siren song of level up from the then Prime Minister . my constituent have be cry out for the promise of big - bang regeneration across community such as mine for a very long time . our main town of Cannock be successful in secure £ 20 million from the levelling - up fund in 2021 , but the reality of the fund have be far more complex than even my local council envisage four year ago . first of all , its rigidity in award funding to one town pit community against one another and do not reflect the more balanced approach to regeneration that council such as mine would take if give the freedom . secondly , the focus on large , complex and therefore risky project with fix budget , couple with high inflation , have force council with luf project to repeatedly re - evaluate what they can deliver . on several occasion , Members will have hear I raise the plight of the Prince of Wales theatre in Cannock and the Museum of Cannock Chase in Hednesford , which be threaten with closure . the museum , base in the building of the former Valley colliery , be a much - love hub for our proud mining heritage . our theatre be play its part in keep our heritage alive , too , such as in the new play " the Tunnellers " , which tell the story of the heroic man of the tunnel company in the first world war , many of whom work on the Cannock Chase coalfield . a redevelopment of our theatre be to be at the heart of our luf project , but the effect of inflation to have force the council to scale back the project , and the theatre be now set to close . fortunately , a fantastic group of resident have form a community interest company with a view to take on the Prince of Wales . I pay tribute to they and , as I state at a public meeting that I organise last Friday , I will continue to work shoulder to shoulder with they to secure a bright , sustainable future for the theatre , and our museum , too . I very much hope that our council will use the levelling - up fund to help secure the long - term future of the theatre . the difficulty face by Cannock ' s LUF project underline the flaw of the funding model . I be encourage to see this Government ' s commitment to replace the dog - eat - dog bidding war with a system base on need and what our community want . alongside my colleague , I hope to see coalfield community benefit from local growth funding , maintain at the current level at least , long - term funding that do not lead to a rapid dash to spend by arbitrary deadline , and the genuine empowerment of local council , which will always know their community well than Whitehall . finally , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which have do fantastic work in our community for 25 year , be force by the previous Government to become a self - finance charity . despite the inevitable scaling back of its capacity to invest , its brilliant model of generate income from build new industrial unit for small and medium - sized business in coalfield community be enable it to carry on its fantastic work . the CRT ' s objective and investment perfectly align with this Government ' s ambition for economic growth that be spread right across the country while bear down on the barrier that all too often affect coalfield community more than most . our community , which once power the nation , be burst with potential and passionate , hard - work people with a diverse range of skill and a pride in our past , strengthen by hope for the future . I be proud to be part of a Labour Government who be once again unleash that potential for the good of the people we all represent . rise — order . after the next speaker , the time limit on speech will be reduce to four minute . I thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for secure this debate . Stafford also have a proud coalfield history . many of my constituent be miner , who dedicate their life to the mining industry both below and above ground . today , like many hon . member , I want to highlight my constituent who be member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , the BCSSS . at the general election , I be proud to stand on a platform that recognise the injustice of the mineworker pension scheme . follow the election , I be delighted that swift action be take to return the investment reserve to its rightful owner . like my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , I believe that the BCSSS be worth review . it share many of the same characteristic as the mineworker pension scheme and have equally deserving member . I particularly want to highlight the nearly 5 , 000 woman in the mining industry , the majority of whom be in the BCSSS . they be often among the low pay in the mining industry , but their contribution should not be overlook . they deserve the same financial security and recognition in later life as their male colleague . the Minister have state that the Government will review the BCSSS after the arrangement with MPS trustee have be agree . I be so appreciative that the Government be open to explore the scheme , I be contact daily by constituent , desperately ask for clarity on the process . I hope that discussion will take place soon , but more directly , I be call for transparency on timescale so that I can reassure my constituent that this be a priority for our Government . I thank all member who be involve in bring forward this debate , include my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) . the coastal coalfield of west Cumbria stretch 14 mile from Whitehaven up the coast to Maryport . the coal seam in my constituency be mine for over 420 year before the last mine close in the 1980 . the miner and colliery of west Cumbria help to fuel Britain ' s economy for century and spark numerous innovation . entire town and community in my constituency be build out of the coal , iron and steel industry . our mining history be , however , also mark by terrible tragedy . over 1 , 700 man , woman and child be estimate to have be kill while mining coal in Whitehaven as a result of multiple major disaster , include at the Wellington , Haig and William pit . these terrible incident be remember to this day by member of the Pit Crack West Cumbria group , which organise annual remembrance event and create a community for retire miner . let I put on record my thank to Dave Craddock , Joseph Ritson and other who be involve in the group . I also pay tribute to Patrick Robertson and other who be work to keep the memory of Workington ' s mining heritage alive with their campaign for a mining memorial in Workington , which I wholeheartedly support . despite those tragedy , west Cumbria remember our mining history proudly . have witness the loss not just of our mining industry but , over time , the generation of new nuclear power — despite be the site of the world ' s first civil nuclear power station — that loss be feel profoundly . when not replace , that loss do something to the psychology of a community . People yearn for work that provide a sense of share purpose . the hon . member be be generous with his time . he speak passionately about coalmine in Cumbria and Whitehaven . he will be aware that there be a chance in Whitehaven to open a metallurgical coking mine , which would produce coke for steel and cement in this country . will he have a word with his own Government to persuade they to open the coalmine ? the hon . member ' s intervention be perfectly time , because I be about to say that it be in these community that the easy soundbite of populist can take hold . I will answer his question in time . our response must be economic revival in coalfield community that can generate a renew sense of purpose and pride . the cynical promise of the last government to my constituent be that they would reopen a coalmine that they know would likely never come . they tell my community that the good it could hope for be job in a die industry — job that would be tie to export a volatile commodity that lack a domestic market . my job , and the Government ' s job , be to put other option on the table . I have produce an industrial plan for west Cumbria , and since the election I have commission and update a more detailed version of the plan , which I will publish shortly . it set out how we might secure new nuclear , upgrade the port of Workington , and fuel new advanced manufacturing and industrial job in the area . the plan would revive and diversify west Cumbria ' s economy and boost our sense of pride — look to the future , not the past , for the answer that my community deserve . those plan stand a chance of success only because we have a Government who be commit to an industrial strategy ; who be serious about new nuclear power generation , as announcement early today indicate ; and who recognise the vital role of upgrade our port , and have set the national wealth fund on a footing to support those initiative . the Government ' s growth mission , actively back those kind of plan , offer an answer to revive our coalfield community . I look forward to continue to work with the Government to deliver this change for my community , and invite the Minister to west Cumbria to talk not only about these plan but the opportunity that the recently announce devolution deal might offer to revive the prospect of job and economic opportunity in my community . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this incredibly important debate . he be a true champion for miner across our country . my constituency of North West Leicestershire have a rich mining heritage , with most of the Leicestershire pit fall in my constituency . it fill I with great pride to stand in the Chamber , give a voice to our coalfield community . when I look to the colleague who be present , I be remind of not just how significant an impact the coalmine industry have , but how much that history unite we . for my constituency , the legacy of the coalmine industry be literally write on the map , in the name of our main urban centre , Coalville . one of the first event that I attend as a candidate be the 125 - year anniversary of the 1898 Whitwick colliery mining disaster . the ceremony unveil a memorial to the 35 miner — man and boy — who lose their life in that disaster . I pay tribute to they in this House today : William Bradshaw , Josiah Brookes , John Davies , William Greasley , William Moon , William Percival , Lewis Smith , John Tugby , Joseph Wilson , James Wright , Henry Wyatt , James Wyatt , William Belcher , Charles Clamp , William Davies , John Elliott , Thomas Greasley , Joseph King , William Limb , John Platts , Joseph Shaw , John Skellington , James Evans , John Richards , William Bostock , John Moore , Patrick o ' Mara , Thomas Timson , Thomas Beniston , Edward Edwards , Benjamin Wileman , Henry Springthorpe , Samuel Stacey , William Stacey and John Albert Gee , who be just 13 year old , and lose his life after run back into the pit to warn other of the danger . the Whitwick historical group have be unwavere in its dedication to ensure that the disaster be not forget . I pay tribute to the follow member of the group for their tireless work : John Ivor West Colledge , Alan Michael Wileman and the late Lesley Hale . to support our coalmine community , we need to preserve the history of those who power our country . while we must support our community to protect our industrial heritage , we have to provide a great path to the future . Most of North West Leicestershire bear the hallmark of coalmining , with pit wheel dot far and wide throughout the constituency . Snibston have one of the last remain example of above - ground operational working of a pit . just outside my constituency be the open - cast mine on the edge of Measham , which close in 2016 . the mine be grant permission on the condition that contribution go to the Ashby canal and a community fund . tap into that money create by the mine will help to develop my coalfield town across my constituency and boost economic support . the national forest have also be a key driver for transition the industrial landscape to beautiful countryside . it be a fact , however , that our community be poorly serve by public transport , and seemingly the good way to support my coalfield community be to preserve and restore the Stephenson - build railway line locally know as Ivanhoe . open up the railway line will be key to ensure great access to job and education for our future . I be incredibly pleased that , as have be mention , the autumn Budget overturn the injustice on the mineworker pension scheme . in my constituency alone , that have deliver justice for more than 1 , 500 family , give they an extra £ 29 a week . our attention must now be on deliver the same justice for member of the BCSSS . that would make a huge difference to my community ; almost 800 people would benefit from it . no miner , widow or coalfield family should feel exclude from the pension money that be earmark for they . I know how strong the coalmine community be in my constituency , and protect our coalmine community will be key to future prosperity . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this valuable debate . I be here to speak on behalf of 750 of my constituent . there be a sense of injustice , confusion and fear . these be the people who be ignore and miss out when the Chancellor announce last October that mineworker who have pay into the mineworker pension scheme will be pay out after year of campaigning , and receive their share of the reserve that have build up over decade . in particular , I will talk about two bassetlaw resident : Michael Houghton , who work for over 20 year on the frontline as a qualified mechanical engineer , responsible for hundred of staff and million of pound - worth of plant and machinery , and Tony Gibson , whose grandfather and father work in the Durham coalfield , and who begin his mining career at Bevercotes , Nottinghamshire in 1975 , win an award for the good final - year apprentice in the Yorkshire and nottinghamshire area while still work on the coalface . at the age of 23 , the young permissible age allow by law , he be promote to the staff and become a deputy , a move that take he from the MPS into the BCSSS . he be 66 in three month ' time , and will be at the low end of the BCSSS pension age . he have suffer from two cancer : bowel and prostate . both his knee have be replace due to work on the coalface . both man transfer from the MPS to the BCSSS as they progress through their mining career . this happen to many people unknowingly . the sense of anger and injustice be palpable . they feel ignore and forget , their year of hard work and service devalue . my commitment to Michael and Tony , and to the 748 who stand alongside they , be that I will do everything that I can to right the even great injustice that they be forget — overlook , while 86 , 000 retire miner now receive their full pension entitlement . it have impact on the managerial staff and overman who work at the pit , alongside the woman who work in the canteen and in the office , and of course their widow and widower . when I meet local BCSSS member , I hear their great fear : the tick clock of time . as each day go by , member pass on and their personal fight for justice go with they . I ask the Government to recognise the sense of urgency and act now to right this unhappy wrong . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this important debate . my constituency of North Durham have a proud mining heritage . in almost every village and town there be pit wheel or miner ' s tub monument . many community hall and school proudly house Durham Miners ' Association and National Union of Mineworkers banner , and hundred of my constituent proudly attend the Durham miner ' gala every year , but alongside the celebration and pride , there be loss and tragedy , with monument to commemorate tragic incident in which many life be lose in the service of mining . the most awful of those incident in my constituency be the West Stanley pit disaster . Sunday 16 February mark the 116th anniversary of the 1909 West Stanley pit disaster , which take the life of 168 man and boy , and be one of the bad coalmine disaster in british history . the disaster continue to have profound importance in the local community ' s collective memory . the headteacher at North Durham academy talk about family who go to look at the name of their ancestor on the monument . I pay tribute to the resilience , courage and spirit show by the community of Stanley . hon . member have speak about the mineworker pension scheme in detail . I be delighted that 630 former miner in North Durham be receive an uplift to their weekly pension , and fair payment for year to come . I welcome the fact that the Government be review the BCSSS , but the investment reserve must be transfer to its member as soon as possible . that be now a political decision ; change to the scheme ' s rule can be make only by the Government . I hope that the Minister can say what progress have be make on the review when he wind up the debate . the decline of the coalmine industry , from its peak in 1913 when 165 , 000 man and boy work in Durham ' s 304 mine , be long and slow . that decline take place over a long period , and so do the economic damage that come with the closure of the mine . one of the most tragic policy to exacerbate the suffering of the community in County Durham be the concept of category d village ; be a deliberate decision not to invest in they , and to run they down . quite a few village in my constituency be condemn , in public policy term , in that way , and local people fight for the survival of their community . my fundamental concern be that even now , so long after the closure of the last mine in Sacriston in my constituency in the 1980 , there have be very little systematic repurposing , economically , in those area . level of poverty and deprivation be still far too high . some of the economic activity that be intend to replace coalmining have in turn be shut down , such as the ever ready factory at Tanfield Lea . I pay tribute to the CRT for the excellent work it do in community like mine , support job and local economic growth . it support 14 grassroot voluntary , community and social enterprise organisation in North Durham . it have submit a proposal to the Government for more capital funding to help it expand its vital work over the next five year . I hope the Government will respond positively . as I say in my maiden speech , there be a need for strategic economic regeneration , and a new economic purpose for region like mine , and that require the Government to think about economic growth that be focus on the region that most need high - quality new job . they can do that through investment , infrastructure and procurement decision , and that need a join - up approach across the whole of Government . I hope the Minister will take that into account . first , I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure the debate . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) for all the hard work he do for our coalfield community . my now old child groan whenever I mention the industrial revolution . they grow up hear about it , because I always think it be very important for they to understand their place . I could not think of a well place to raise they than the constituency of Leigh and Atherton . its rich history be root in coalmining and textile manufacturing . that be probably one of the reason why , between the time when I have be elect , I stay in Leigh and regenerate one of our redbrick giant , Leigh Spinners Mill , to create a space for business and enterprise to thrive . if we be talk about regeneration , preserve historical structure be vital . they form part of our identify and help we to maintain a connection with the past . however , there be no deny the impact of decline and the loss of industry on our town . industry have not be replace , and community be still grapple with the consequence . our high street , once bustling , be now burden with vacant , decay building with absentee landlord . our road network , originally design around our factory and mill , struggle under the weight of increase traffic and congestion . as the chair of the Labour mps group on local growth funding , I work alongside colleague from across England , Scotland and Wales , many of whom represent some of the most disadvantaged area of the country . we be firmly committed to support the Government ' s plan to reform local growth funding , especially after the failure of the previous Government ' s policy . the Labour mps group , in collaboration with the Industrial Communities Alliance , present an ambition statement , which outline key proposal for the upcoming spending review . among the proposal be a call for funding allocation formula that more accurately reflect the true need of our community , and a call for great devolution of power to local leader . after all , we have already make significant stride with our Greater Manchester Mayor , Andy Burnham , and the long - await bus reform . the proposal be relevant not just to former coalfield area like mine ; they speak to all disadvantaged part of our nation . funding must be allocate fairly and base on need , not through a competitive bidding process that disproportionately benefit already affluent area . local growth funding must have one clear and overarch focus : economic development , regeneration and connectivity . I be under no illusion that a large financial institution will rock up to Leigh and create thousand of job — that be not go to happen — so how do we focus on connect to area where growth be happen , and how can we well support the business that we already have in our town ? I be fully committed to the Government ' s growth strategy , and be grateful that we now have a Government who be bold in their ambition to get this country work again . the Government have a unique opportunity to correct past injustice , invest in our future and build prosperous new industrial area . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this most important debate . first , I need to declare my interest : I be a former community manager at the Coalfields Regeneration Trust in Scotland , and I be the proud daughter of a miner and a canteen worker who work in the pit from an early age , Ellen and John Orr . I be delighted that support for coalfield community be on the agenda again in this House . those community , once thriving hub of industry , have face decade of decline and hardship since the rapid closure of mine in the mid - 80 . they be the community that we live in and represent . despite the resilience and determination of the people in these area , the lack of meaningful action from previous government have leave they struggle to rebuild and prosper . throughout that time , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have be a beacon of hope . over the past 25 year , it have invest hundred of million of pound in community project . however , funding have significantly diminish in recent year in Scotland and across the country . revive our former coalfield site mean reinstate the support that the Conservatives take away , and increase the support that the SNP be cut yearly . the Labour Government rightly highlight the importance of the growth agenda . that growth need to be for everyone , everywhere . I urge the Government to look at the CRT ' s investment plan . they be about invest to reverse the left - behind legacy in coalfield community . one challenge be poor health . People live in coalfield community still die one year early than the national average , and three year early than they would if they live in south - east England . economic inactivity be also an issue , with 600 , 000 people in the coalfield area claim disability living allowance or personal independence payment . those figure be significantly high than the national average . there be a brain drain from coalfield community ; many young people move away to study and never return . the situation be particularly dire in area of my constituency . the number sadly speak for themselves . in the coalfield community of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock , there be only 41 job per 100 resident of work age , and one in four people claim out - of - work benefit . one in 13 claim the personal independence payment or disability living allowance , and one in three have no qualification . one in 12 people be in bad or very bad health . however , every week , I see at first hand the positive impact that the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have in my community ; for example , it be deliver and develop after - school and breakfast club in Drongan to address child poverty and support family . it be also look to replicate that in a small coalfield village call Dalrymple . much more need to be do , with the support of the UK Government . I will work with colleague to make the case to the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government for increase funding for project that focus on our community wealth - building model . unlike previous government , we need to leave a lasting and positive legacy for our coalfield community . we need to end the left - behind legacy once and for all . mining have long be deeply weave into the practical and cultural fabric of people ' s live in Chesterfield , as it have in all mining community . I need only look out of the window of the Labour club where I base my constituency office to be confront with the former Derbyshire Miners ' Association office , and the statue of Chesterfield ' s first two miner mps . indeed , until the election of Tony Benn in 1984 , every Member of Parliament for Chesterfield in the 20th century have be a former collier . my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) speak about the educational role of the National Union of Mineworkers . that be one of the many legacy that have be lose as coalmining have disappear . the union have a real commitment to make sure that its member be educate to the high standard . evidence of mining in Chesterfield and Derbyshire range from tragic memorial to miner lose in our various tragedy to the dwindle number of miner ' welfare club and former office on Saltergate . they serve as a reminder of the past — a window into a time when the region be dominate by the pit and the opportunity that they provide . it be important , however , that this debate also focus on the future for coalmining area , and on investment , such as the investment in junction 29a secure by my former colleague Dennis Skinner . it mean that more people be now employ on the old Markham pit site than ever work underground there . this timely debate remind we that the former coalfield area , cruelly put out of use by the industrial vandalism of the Thatcher Government , have never be satisfactorily repurpose in any strategic way by subsequent government . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust recently reflect on the impact on health , not just for those with an industrial legacy , but for the one in five people in my constituency who be out of work due to long - term sickness . the same proportion have no formal qualification . those statistic paint a picture of what can happen when industry retreat from an area and no plan be make for what happen next . I have hear former conservative mps talk about a benefit culture , but who create that ? it be , of course , the Thatcher Government , put all those miner out of work and expect they to go on to incapacity benefit . the coalfield be fight back , however . I pay tribute to John Burrows , the former derbyshire NUM president and leader of Chesterfield borough council for six year , and his successor , Tricia Gilby . they be successful in attract £ 25 million in town deal fund from the previous Government , and the dedication and success of the Staveley town deal board , of which I have be a proud member for the last five year , have bring about welcome investment that will support Staveley to support itself through the regeneration that we need . however , I agree with colleague that what we need be not occasional little pot of money , but a long - term strategic plan for re - energise coalfield community . they be very different from city , which government tend to find it easy to get investment into . we desperately need the new Government ' s industrial strategy to speak to the need of constituent like mine , and to set out a thought - through plan for coalfield community . I see a real opportunity for coalfield to be at the vanguard of the green revolution . the Government ' s " clean power by ' 30 " mission alone will unlock £ 40 billion of investment a year and create thousand of skilled job . the coalfield have keep the light on in this country over the last century , and there be so much opportunity for they to be at the forefront of do that again . the people of Chesterfield have a proud history of work hard to keep the light on , and they can keep that noble tradition go . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for arrange this debate . we share an office so I know how important this issue be to he and how frequently he speak about the need for regeneration in coalfield community — that is , when he be not argue with my staff about how old he look . [ laughter . ] newdigate , Keresley , Baddesley , Birch Coppice and Daw Mill colliery provide job for many in my community until they close . I be proud to have grow up and live in a coalfield community that retain many reminder of its mining history . for many year I play tennis at the Grove in Atherstone , which be a former miner ' welfare club . I have also walk through the Miners ' Welfare Park in Bedworth and take part in the weekly parkrun . my grandfather be a miner and like many other mineworker in the constituency , he live in Dordon , which start off as just a row of house until Birch Coppice pit open . coal mine bring opportunity to countless people , and many of my constituent work hard underground in dangerous condition throughout their life . it be therefore crucial they get the pension they be entitle to . deal with the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme mean that 1 , 043 former mineworker in my constituency now have the pension they deserve . we must do the same for those member of the BCSSS , such as the 93 - year - old former miner who call my office today . like many other coalfield community , my constituency be still suffer from deprivation that be intensify by the mine closing . the " State of the Coalfields " report reveal that there be substantially few job in former coalfield than in most other part of the country . unfortunately , that be true in my constituency too , with only 63 job per 100 resident of work age . the problem that cause can not be overstate . one in 16 people be in bad or very bad health , one in five be economically inactive due to long - term sickness and one in four have no qualification . by work with local business and school , I be determined to break that cycle and to ensure that people in my area have local employment opportunity and leave school with qualification that allow they to take up those opportunity . otherwise , my constituency will continue to follow the same pattern that many other coalfield community face , where people must leave the constituency for work and our town and high street suffer as a result . I be therefore here today to urge the Government to take further action to tackle the disadvantage and worklessness face by coalfield community , and to ensure that we hold ourselves to our promise to deliver the opportunity that our young people desperately need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this debate and my many hon . friend for their outstanding contribution this afternoon . Clackmannanshire have a proud mining heritage and , like so many other place around the UK , the pit be at the very heart of many local community . it be somewhere that be more than a workplace ; it be a generational employer where comradeship and trust be the thing that brave worker , who go underground and put themselves in danger to keep the country warm and move , rely on . I be proud that the Government announce that the entirety of the mineworker ' pension scheme would be hand over to ex - coalminer and their family — hundred of my constituent will benefit — and the positive noise come from Ministers about the BCSSS be welcome . Clackmannanshire be like other heartland that have be deindustrialise ; the economic and social consequence of industry close 40 - odd year ago be still be feel today . our young people face the challenge of find local employment of the kind that will pay a wage that will allow they to contribute to the economy , to participate in society , and one day , perhaps , to buy a house and raise a family in comfort . naturally , that be the case , there have be an exodus of young people , mean that talent and potential leave local community . my inbox tell the tale of the social devastation that be commonplace in deindustrialise area . addiction issue , health problem , inadequate transport link , high suicide rate and people rely on emergency food parcel just to survive all point to government failure to tackle deindustrialisation and the inequality that it produce . if the 1980 and 1990 be the decade in which industry and manufacturing leave community like mine , the 2010 be the period when austerity rule . austerity be an assault on the poor , the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable in our society . now we see reduction in opportunity , negative social mobility , low - wage employment , the gig economy , community across the country ravage as leisure centre close , and an unrelenting attack on the public service that be the very fabric of our community . then , of course , we have a pandemic whose true death toll can never be accurately calculate . inequality have become even bad because of covid , and inequality be a very real killer . yesterday my constituency be yet again the victim of industry leave , when the worker at the Grangemouth refinery be serve their redundancy notice . on site , more than 400 highly skilled worker will lose their job , and when we factor in the wide supply chain , there will be nearly 3 , 000 job loss . like the coal industry , a vital energy creator will be lose forever . a different decade , a different government ; nevertheless , strikingly similar social consequence will be the result . let I finish on a more positive note . with a capital investment of £ 50 million over five year , the Government have the chance to give the Coalfields Regeneration Trust an opportunity to help to partly reindustrialise coalfield community that would create thousand of job . our community need to be invest in , not forget and consign to history as somewhere that use to have industry . our community deserve an awful lot more than that . last weekend when I be out door - knock in Eckington , one gentleman tell I of his frustration with politic and his disbelief that it would ever achieve anything for he . I have to admit that I be sometimes frustrate by this attitude , because I do not believe that the answer be never to try , but I be none the less mull over exactly why he have give up so much . also last weekend , I go to an exhibition and talk organise by woman to show what they have do to support the miner . like many member of my generation who grow up after the strike , I be aware of they but , as with so much work - class history , we be never teach about they at school . it be therefore a huge privilege to hear Janet and Kate give such a fascinating talk about the huge role that they have play , and about the sheer strength of the mining community who have fight so hard to support each other during this period . how little they have , but how much they share ! it be clear that the root of my constituent ' s apathy do not lie just in the past 14 year of Conservative - impose national decline , but go all the way back to the miner ' strike , when the British Government say , " we will take your job away and there be nothing you can do about it . get on your bike , we be not interested , you be on your own . " if the Government in Westminster do that to you , why would you ever look at they again ? the fact be that the closure of the mine do not just remove employment , but show huge contempt for area such as North East Derbyshire , and rip the heart out of the social cohesion of community . we in Labour know when we come in that we have to deliver for those community . one of their big champion be the late John Prescott , and I applaud his work in establish the Coalfield Task Force and then the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , which have be do excellent work ever since . however , despite the general rise in living standard that we deliver , along with an improvement in the NHS and a huge push for aspiration , we could not close the gap between our coalfield community and other place , and what work we do achieve be rapidly slash by the coalition Government and many Tory government after that . let I just say , as an aside , how disappointing it be , when I see so many of my labour colleague in the Chamber , to note how few representative of the conservative party be present — and how few representative of small party such as Reform , who profess to care . my message to my constituent in Eckington , and to everyone else , be that I be not go to give up fighting for they and for the step change in opportunity that be so desperately need in North East Derbyshire , and I know that I have hundred of colleague in the Labour party with I in that fight . in community like mine , we do not need charity ; we just need the tool to build our own future , and then we will just get on and do it . we need infrastructure so that we can access job , customer , market and education . that be why I be campaign for the Staveley bypass to well connect Staveley , Barrow Hill and Mastin Moor . that be why I be campaign for more bus and well bus , so that so people in Killamarsh can get to work on time when work start at 8 am — remarkably , the first bus be too late for that . that be why I be campaign to make well use of our exist rail link , so that Dronfield , a town of 20 , 000 , do not just have one train an hour to Sheffield . it be a 10 - minute train ride , and we have one train an hour — it be ridiculous . that be why I be campaign to explore bring light rail back to community across North East Derbyshire , to connect we from Clay Cross and Killamarsh to place such as Chesterfield and Sheffield . it be about the social infrastructure that we have lose as well . we need youth facility , to show early on that our Government care about young people . we need support for our high street , so that they can be the heart of our community . we need to crack down on petty crime and antisocial behaviour , so that we can feel safe . we need our rural road to be safe , so that we do not see family devastate by loss . underlie this be the vital work that the Government have already start on fix our NHS , improve our school and grow our economy . for my constituent in North East Derbyshire , I be fight for our Government to give they the tool they need , and we will put in the hard work together to build a well future . we have do it before , and I know we will do it again . I be very pleased to support the application from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) to secure today ' s debate , and I congratulate he on do so . my constituency be home to the proud former coalfield community of Astley and Mosley Common , which I share with my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) , with other many part of my constituency also historically link to the mining industry . for generation , the Astley Green and Mosley Common colliery be cornerstone of the local area , provide thousand of job , economic stability and a focal point for the community . the local mineworker be quite rightly respect for the tough , dangerous and essential work they do day after day down the pit . I pay tribute to the great work carry out by the volunteer who run the Lancashire Mining Museum in my constituency , which I have have the pleasure of visit on a number of occasion . occupy the old Astley Green colliery site , the museum illustrate just how central the mining legacy be to the area ' s identity . we must ensure that the sacrifice make by mineworker and their community to power this country be never forget . the colliery in my constituency be close more than 50 year ago . however , the impact on the local area linger today . former coalfield community still suffer from a shortage of good - quality job , high level of deprivation and bad health outcome . the " State of the Coalfields 2024 " report show that on average , hourly earning in the former coalfield be still 6 % to 7 % below the GB average , and it find that the overall out - of - work claimant rate be 7 percentage point above that of south - east England . it be clear that the coalfield face a share set of structural issue and challenge . after 14 year of undelivered promise on regional inequality from the party opposite — although there be not many of they opposite we at the moment — our coalfield community will now finally benefit from a Government who genuinely want to level they up . legislation such as the Employment Rights Bill will positively impact our former coalfield , make work pay by deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . I welcome the Government ' s decision in the autumn Budget regard the mineworker pension scheme — a long - overdue decision that will see retired miner finally get the money they deserve . however , more can and should be do . the reinstatement of Government fund to the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , in support of their community wealth - building model , would provide much - need stimulus to promote local growth , feed into this Labour Government ' s mission to secure growth and deliver rise living standard for work people . to support our coalfield community in the future , we must ensure we do not forget their share past . there be many lesson to be learn from their experience , particularly as we build the green industry of the future . never again should community be neglect and abandon by the Government as they be in the 1980 . adapt industry to the future can take many form . my constituency be home to the iconic Eccles protector lamp . despite no long have mine , protector lamp be still produce in my constituency and , repurpose , for more than 25 year they have carry the olympic flame — traditional skill , repurpose and put to continue work . the scar leave by pit closure have never fully be address . their damaging legacy continue to reverberate to this day . the need for new and continued support from our Government be clear . that be the least our proud coalfield town deserve . I declare my interest as a voluntary director of a nursery that be run from a venue support by the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . it be a good example of the wide impact of investment in our coalfield . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this important debate , and for all his hard work to drive this issue forward . Nuneaton ' s first shaft be sink in the 1850 , and the last pit , Daw Mill , close in 2016 after 160 year of service — of man go into the darkness to keep the light of the nation on and the army of people work around they to support they and the industry . I know that they be delighted by this new Government ' s rapid progress on resolve the dispute over the mineworker pension scheme , and very much look forward to similar progress and update from the Minister on the British Coal staff superannuation scheme . I be proud to live in a coal village . it be a strong and vibrant community , and my constituent ' understanding of the sacrifice make by so many be embed in our town ' collective history and consciousness . the pit closure leave a vacuum and a legacy of social , economic and health challenge which to this day have an incredible , indelible impact on my constituency . the people of Nuneaton earn around £ 100 a week less than our neighbour and the national average . People in Nuneaton die young and live less healthy life , and child in Nuneaton leave school less qualified . datum from the Office for National Statistics show similar trend to those mention by other colleague : our young people choose to leave Nuneaton , and the devastating impact of poverty be still feel by far too many family and child . these challenge be compound by complex historical infrastructure decline . it have take year of fighting to ensure that Daw Mill ' s restoration order will be deliver . issue such as share sewer and drain , land contamination and unadopted road mar our beautiful village and estate , erode pride and leave we feel forget and unloved . pat from New Arley have be almost housebound for year . she have to be carry on to the pavement because the unadopted service road — the Arley back — by her door be in such a poor state that it be dangerous for she to use her wheelchair and scooter . she have difficulty attend hospital appointment or see friend . these issue have be present for year , and stick - plaster investment and quick win will not solve they . rectify the widespread disrepair be no quick fix . these abandon service road invite antisocial behaviour , drug and theft . they be relic of a forget time when we have weekly coal delivery , and they cause many issue and lengthy delay for our utility . fix water leak , overhead cable and supply take much long than it should because of complexity ; it can take day just to identify who be responsible for the land and to gain access . More support be need to rebuild complex capital programme and to work with highway authority to adopt and maintain these area , to prevent they from become forget wasteland . yet new estate with similar issue and unadopted road continue to be build . we appreciate the investment we have see from the Coalfields Regeneration Trust in Nuneaton , which have support project like the one to tackle long - term health issue by instal community cardiac facility in Camp Hill . the power of our community and the ability to thrive in our coalfield community be dependent on support nationally . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be proud to represent several former coalmine community . Abercraf , Cwmtwrch , Gwaun - Cae - Gurwen , Ystradgynlais , Pontardawe and Rhos be just a few of the proud former mining community that I represent . I therefore thank the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for secure this debate . across Wales , nearly 800 , 000 people — about a third of the population — live in former coalmining town and village , and I be very proud to come from a Welsh mining family . I will never forget my grandfather take I to see his father ' s grave in Maesteg cemetery . his father die aged 34 after work up to his waist in ice - cold water for several hour . the man and woman of our coalfield community make huge sacrifice to power this country , so it be right that we be discuss the future of their community today . to cut a long story short , Welsh mining community have be leave behind by successive government . Margaret Thatcher ' s policy — the closure of our major industry in Wales and the failure to replace it with anything else — have leave last scar . it be not hard to see why people in south Wales wonder whether their government be listen to they . this Parliament be an open goal for the Government to repair the damage do by Thatcherism . the conservative party squander many of its 13 year in power , carry on with a London - centric banker - friendly form of growth that mean young generation have to leave for the city , as my mum do 30 year ago . this government must not repeat the mistake . across the former south Wales coalfield , the economic reality be dire . wage be low than the national average , job growth be sluggish and unemployment remain high . in fact , in the south Wales coalfield , there be just 46 job for every 100 working - age people . nearly 800 , 000 people — a third of the entire population of Wales — live in those area , which be why they be so important to the Welsh economy . Wales be £ 10 , 000 a head poor than England , and fix our former coalmine community be key to fix the Welsh economy . Coalfield community deserve to be at the forefront of economic renewal . People in coalfield community want the Government to show they that they matter . they be desperate for change . with a splintering geopolitical order , we need a strong manufacturing base to keep ourselves safe , and there be many excellent manufacture company in my constituency . recently , those from one such company that make vintage motorcycle part come to see I . they be currently have big problem export those part to Europe , which be directly affect the business and employment in my constituency . that be why it be so important that the government do everything they can to repair our trading relationship with the European Union . I be concerned that after year of fail promise from the Conservative Government to level up , the very idea of level up seem absent from Labour ' s plan . just last week , the Chancellor announce infrastructure project in the south - east of England , while the Swansea valley , which I represent , have be leave off the map for the south Wales metro project . it will be almost the only valley in south Wales not to have a trainline . the people of the Swansea valley deserve to have a railway line again too . it be time we invest properly in these community and give they the opportunity to thrive once again . I know from first - hand experience that community in the coalfield be resilient and industrious . there be unique opportunity open up to bring back job to our area . let we take the Global Centre for Rail Excellence in Onllwyn , which straddle my constituency . that technology testing facility , locate on the site of a former coalmine , could bring new job and manufacturing back to the Swansea valley , but it need the Government , energy and money behind it . public service , especially healthcare , also need urgent attention . the health impact of mining have leave a last legacy . we must ensure that these community receive the care they need as we work toward a more sustainable future . while the economic issue face these community be vast , many local resident also live with a distinct fear . in Wales and across the UK , the Aberfan tragedy of 1966 be sear into the collective memory of our nation , yet for many community across south Wales the risk remain . coal tip across the UK be still in need of remediation . the reality be that the risk of tip collapse be increase due to climate change and more frequent , intense rainfall . in my own constituency , Godre ' rgraig primary school near Pontardawe be force to close in 2019 due to fear of a landslide . the child be still be teach in temporary cabin in a car park , which be completely unacceptable . many community in my constituency feel similarly abandon . in Gwaun Cae Gurwen , resident of Twynrefail place have be fight for year for Neath Port Talbot council to adopt their road , but that have not happen . the road be in such a bad condition that the resident be concerned that they will barely reach their own front door . although I be glad that Labour allocate £ 25 million in funding during the autumn Budget to help remediate coal tip in Wales , it be a far cry from the over £ 600 million that the Welsh Government have say will be need to make these tip safe for future generation . finally , I wish to turn to the issue of miner ' pension . the British Coal staff superannuation scheme currently have more than 45 , 000 member across the UK , as many member have already mention , include 4 , 000 in Wales and 146 in my constituency . unlike their former colleague in the mineworker pension scheme , member of the BCSSS do not have their pension unfrozen by the Government in the Budget . for many of these former miner , time be run out . six miner in the BCSSS die every day due to health complication relate to mining . many fear that they will not live to see a resolution to this injustice . that be why the Government must act quickly ; time be not with the miner or their family . will the Minister confirm today when the Government will give these miner and their family the pension that they work for ? if the UK Government want to address inequality and prompt economic recovery across south Wales , they must start by invest in coalfield community . family such as mine have suffer the consequence of community be leave behind . we can not afford to let this continue for future generation . our community in south Wales be strong , resilient and ready to succeed — they just need the opportunity to do so . I call the shadow Minister . I add my congratulation to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure this debate . the House will know that Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner be not a coalfield constituency . our mining tradition be far old . it go back to the day of chalk . its legacy today be see in the impact of sinkhole in the local area . today ' s debate be very much focused on the last legacy and impact of an era when coal be king . although I do not represent a coalfield constituency , I certainly grow up in one . the old man with the blue scar and the hack cough from emphysema — or pneumoconiosis , as we now know it to be — be the background to my childhood . I feel lucky that I have a great - grandfather who , unlike many miner , live a very long life . he start work in a pit at Cwmcarn at the age of 12 and carry on to the age of 70 . he share the impact of thing such as the Universal Colliery disaster in Senghenydd on his life and the community in which he live and grow up , and of see his brother die after be bury in a rockfall . although the industry create the enormous economic opportunity that have be describe by many member , we know that the environment be very harsh and difficult , and as we recognise in our many debate about climate change and the transition to net zero , it create a product that , although valuable and effective at generate energy , be enormously pollute . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for give way . we have just have a very good debate , but it must be a considerable embarrassment to he that not a single member of his Majesty ' s opposition think that it be worthwhile attend to make a substantive speech . I appreciate that he be not a coalfield MP , and I appreciate that not many Conservative Members be , but do he not think that , if the Conservatives be serious about be ready to represent the whole country again , we should be hear from some of their mp in a debate such as this ? as we see in all the debate that we have in this House , Members will attend to represent the interest of their community and constituency . I know that the same point have be make in the past about the lack of member of Parliament from certain party attend debate on farming and thing such as that . we need to recognise that the central focus of this debate be on the historical impact and the way that we deal with that legacy . as the hon . Gentleman have highlight , there be , to my regret , not many Conservative Members of Parliament who be deal with those issue in their constituency . that be a political fact . however , we will see they very active on issue that directly impact their constituency on a daily basis . I gently say to the shadow Minister that any party that seek to lead our United Kingdom should be interested in , and commit to , issue that affect people across the UK . irrespective of whether member have particular challenge in their constituency , more of the shadow Minister ' s colleague should have be here . I be sure the Government will wish to press that point . in sum up , it be important , first , to recognise the impact that the end of the use of coal in british industry and energy generation have have ; and secondly , to draw out of that history some lesson for what be often term the just transition — the intended end of oil and gas as a significant player in our energy industry of the future . when I be grow up , the Thatcher Government ' s engagement on investment be largely with the European Economic Community . I see the road be build and the blue flag appear all over as the Government seek to bring in infrastructure investment to open up place like Cwmcarn — a valley off a valley , which be a challenge to access — and community of coal board house , where my sister and her husband still live to this day , so that people could access the grow industry and employment opportunity of the future . the Government at that time recognise that the infrastructure to create that access would be vital . I must take issue with that . I serve a number of year on Easington district council , and we be twin with a similar mining area in North Rhine - Westphalia in Germany . when the Carl Alexander mine near Baesweiler close , the local authority and the miner be give two year ' notice , grant be make available through the federal , local and national Government to retain the miner , and new industrial estate be build . it be interesting to compare that with what happen when our pit close in Easington , Murton , South Hetton , Horden and Blackhall — we find out on the Friday that the pit be close on the Monday , and thousand of man lose their job . I remember those debate , of course , as the backdrop to my experience grow up , along with the miner ' strike and the various intervention that occur . there be an opportunity — I will put it this way — to learn lesson from that and ensure that the new Government ' s approach and future government ' approach take those into account and handle those situation well . if we could move forward from the event of the 1980 , in the last Parliament , the conservative Benches be full of member represent former mining constituency , include three of the constituency in County Durham . perhaps the reason those Members be not return at the last general election be that Government ' s sorry failure to deliver the levelling up they promise . can the shadow Minister in any way defend the failure to economically regenerate mining area that in 2019 have conservative mp for the first time ? I be sure that all those former member of Parliament , and , indeed , some of their labour predecessor , would also be happy to answer for the work they do , some of which be successful and some of which be not , to bring new job , opportunity and educational chance to those community . there be many thing we can debate that have bring benefit to those community . if we examine the statistic in the Library briefing on the impact and legacy in different coalfield around the UK , we see quite a different picture . there be some place where those intervention — base on the statistic — appear to have be effective because there be few , if any , super output area list that remain affect by those issue of poverty and ill health today , and there be other area that have struggle to move on . we all know and understand why that be in some place . if the economy of an area have long be base on mining and natural resource , and there be no other direct employment opportunity there , something different need to be find , and many member have refer to the impact of that . I have touch on infra - structure as one element . will the hon . member give way ? I will , with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker . an observation I have make as I have listen to the hon . Gentleman be that not one single member of his party stand up for the thousand of pensioner who be not give the justice they deserve in the mineworker pension scheme or the BCSSS . his party claim to stand up for pensioner , and yet it do nothing and say nothing for those mining pensioner who deserve a well deal . if the hon . Lady refer to Hansard for debate on these matter in previous Parliaments , she will find those point be raise by member from across the House — rightly so — with a view to move the debate on to the decision that have be make today . the Clapham review of the effectiveness of the Coalfields Regeneration Trust be a key opportunity to consider the role that local government in particular play in the regeneration of our coalfield . clearly , that challenge exist at a number of level . the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) reference the large number of spoil heap — some of which I can see from the garden of my parent ' house . a number of local authority — and government , through local authority — have seek to address that through planting and remediation to stabilise their spoil tip , for example , but there be still a job to do . as the year go by and the industry that produce those spoil tip become historical , we know that we must effectively address the risk that they continue to pose . to conclude my remark , I turn to the importance of learn from the work that the Coalfields Regeneration Trust undertake and from the point that many member of all party have make in debate about these issue over many year . we know that we be about to embark on a process . the UK have make progress in the decarbonisation of our economy since the early 1990 , when , as a lead nation , we begin the major shift away from coal . in the 1950 , coal produce most of our energy ; today , it contribute to none — our last coal - fire power station recently close . the Trades Union Congress recently pass a motion highlight that 30 , 000 job be at risk in the oil and gas industry . we talk about the just transition — Labour Members be , in my view , justify in raise the problem that process have create — but we must lay the groundwork for it . I remember intervention during the miner ' strike , such as the distribution at my school of the EEC butter mountain . that be not an example of an effective economic intervention to address the need of people in difficulty . if we be to have a just transition away from fossil fuel in the future , we must learn from the past mistake of all government in respect of coalfield , and incorporate the lesson into effective policy for a well future for all affected community . I call the Minister . I thank all member for a really thoughtful debate . when member speak about their constituency in the way they have today , we get a sense of the pride of place . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on secure the debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to it . the level of interest in the debate , and the fact that two time limit on speech have be introduce , speak volume . I know from my own experience of grow up in and represent a constituency with a fierce and proud industrial past , build on the back of the coal that fire it , just how much pride and sense of belong come with that . they be job — of course they be — but they be more than that ; they be about people and place . that identity have stay with the generation that have come since . between 1985 and 1997 , the closure of 150 colliery result in approximately 250 , 000 job loss . that be not just about employment ; those closure mean the loss of the vital social facility that the National Coal Board and the trade union have provide for those community . that be why the Government be take concrete action to support coalfield community and secure the future prosperity of former mining community while honour their remarkable heritage . we really get a sense of that in the debate . my hon . friend the Members for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) , for Ossett and Denby Dale ( Jade Botterill ) and for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) speak about community and solidarity , as well as about heritage . it be that sense of belong that we need to respect . quite often — I hear this strongly when I go around the country — people feel not just that Parliament be a million mile away , but that the next town be a million mile away . the isolation that people often feel economically , socially and politically be profound , and we must do far more to meet that challenge . this government ' s define mission be growth , and we be determined that our coalfield community be central to it . that be why we be work in partnership to invest in and empower the nation ' s coalfield , so that they can kick - start growth in their area and increase living standard for work people . we have already announce planning reform , devolution , our plan to make work pay , and settlement to fix the foundation of local government . that will also help coalfield to build their future and realise their full potential . do the Minister agree that economic growth be only meaningful if it take everyone in every community with it and people in every town feel the benefit , include the town that we have talk about today ? my hon . friend make a very good point . he be sit next to my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) ; they be both Greater Manchester MPs , and we be all very proud of Greater Manchester . we all see the red dot on the skyline of Manchattan — as we call it , very proudly — and the booming city centre that be Manchester . however , the truth be that unless the social opportunity be there and people have the confidence and skill to compete in that new market that be emerge , it can feel a million mile away . that be really important , and we do see that . a lot have be say about the mineworker pension scheme . we recognise that for too long , our coalfield community have be an afterthought , which be why this Government have reverse those historic injustice by transfer £ 1 . 5 billion to mineworker pension . our manifesto also promise that the truth of Orgreave would come to light . the BCSSS be also mention , and I can say that the Minister for trade be take that issue up with the urgency that member have call for in this House . it be cover in a lot of detail by my hon . friend the Members for bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) . they all speak , seriously and rightly , about the urgency that be require to resolve this issue . this Government have hear that message loud and clear , and I know that Ministers in other place be work on that . will the Minister give way ? very briefly , please . I be grateful for the Minister ' s reassurance on the BCSSS . before he move off the issue of funding for growth , a number of hon . member , include my hon . friend the Members for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) and for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) , raise the issue of fair funding and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust ' s model for community wealth building . it be seek a relatively modest £ 500 million in capital investment spread over five year , which it believe could create half a million square foot of new industrial space . be the Minister minded to look at that proposal favourably ? we be absolutely committed to ensure that every part of the country realise its full potential . let we be clear : everybody in every part of the country have potential , but far too often , that potential be not meet by opportunity . we will look at any project and measure that aim to do what my hon . friend have describe in the coalfield to ensure that potential be meet , and I can certainly take up that point and maybe follow up in writing . the proud history of our coalfield community must be match with a proud future . late last year , we publish the english devolution White Paper , and a Bill will follow . that White Paper include a reform vision for the long - term plan for town , which the autumn Budget confirm will be retain and reform as part of our regeneration programme . we be proud that through that plan , coalfield community from Newark - on - Trent to Wrexham will receive a package of up to £ 20 million in funding and support . furthermore , this Government be work with mayor where they be to produce local growth plan across their city region , which sit alongside local coalfield community , because we recognise that those be vital to our collective economic future . that regeneration , and the long - term investment and co - ordination that be need , be reference by my hon . friend the Members for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , for Leigh and Atherton , for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) , for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) . they recognise that of course , we can be proud of the history of our place — we all be — but the future be important too , and if we do not put the building block in place to rebuild industry and pride , we will miss a trick . as be reference early , no working - class person be wait for a handout , but we absolutely deserve a hand up . we be sick and tired of be tell to wait our turn , to behave and stand in line and to know our place , hope that somehow , tomorrow , our turn may just come . Lesson after lesson and generation after generation show that , for all those promise , it never come . we can not have power , wealth and opportunity constantly be hoard by the centre , to the exclusion of our community that be impact by it . that be why devolution be so important . if we do not break away from the centralise model of command and control , and the hoarding of power and opportunity , we will never make progress with our economy , society or political power in this country . this week , we be proud to be expand the devolution priority programme , through which more mayor will be create , with the power and the tool that they will need , as local leader , to do what be right for their area . they will not have to come cap in hand to central Government , in constant , wasteful bidding war . like my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) , I pay tribute to the late John Prescott , a working - class voice in politic . he take up that charge — that fight — and we all recognise the work that he do . member of the House have our assurance that we stand with our coalfield community and the excellent Members of Parliament who have speak today . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Government support for coalfield community . Financial Education I beg to move , that this House have consider financial education . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ; I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people . many member of that august body be on the Benches today , and it be worth point out that it be the second - large all - party parliamentary group in Parliament , beat only by that on the communal love for beer . there be a reason why the APPG on financial education be so popular : financial education be a profoundly important topic that affect the life and life chance of our community right across the country . we can not sugar - coat this : we be in a mess when it come to financial education and financial literacy in our economy and our society , and we have know that for age . this be go back a few year , I accept , but one of the reason why I be first draw to this topic be that I do not receive any lesson on personal finance at all during the whole of my education . in fact , it be true to say that I have be teach considerably more about the formation of oxbow lake than about personal finance , debt management , budgeting , save , compound interest , pension and individual saving account . those be thing that grown - up worry about , and that have such an impact on their life , yet they be simply miss from my education . I be afraid it do not stop there , because I have ask my child — age 21 , 18 and 15 — about their financial education , and they have receive none at all , so there have be no improvement , yet we know that this matter profoundly . we know that those unfortunate enough to grow up in a financially chaotic household have no education from their parent , do not understand debt , except for see the consequence of it , and do not understand budgeting . prudent financial management then become a middle - class secret . if we care about the poor and the most disadvantaged in our society , financial education must be a core part of the curriculum in our school . we know that financial stress have a huge impact both on our economy and on our society . way back in 2014 , Barclays bank do research that show that 17 . 5 million hour be lose to the economy because of financial stress . we also know that financial stress , or financial worry , be one of the core component of family breakdown and the break - up of relationship , lead to argument in the home and distress cause to child . yet we know what the solution be . we have have load of research . the Money and Pensions Service have say that attitude towards money and finance be fundamentally establish by the age of just seven . we know that financial education in school be directly correlate with high career earning , reduce personal debt , increase pension saving and increase saving more generally . we have all be elect to this place , and we have all come here , I assume , to improve the life and life chance of our constituent . the single big thing we can do for our constituent in our time in this place be get effective financial education into the core curriculum . I say that to the Minister , because she need to reflect on what her ambition be for her time in this place . we have have a crack at it . back in 2014 , we , or our predecessor , think we have do a jolly good job , because financial education be include in the national curriculum in secondary school in England , and in primary school in the devolved nation . last year , on the 10th anniversary of that change , the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people undertake research to see what the impact of that inclusion in the national curriculum have be . the awful truth be that it be virtually negligible , because financial education be not in fact be teach . we make the mistake as policymaker of say , " we ' ve change the policy — job do . that ' s the solution " , but we do not take the next step and ensure that the policy be implement effectively . indeed , 55 % of teacher responsible for implement the national curriculum be either unaware of the requirement , or unsure of whether there be a requirement to teach financial education , and 62 % of child have no recollection of have receive any . why do we think we have solve the problem with policy , when in practice the change do not take place ? part of the answer be that financial education be include within personal , social , health and economic education , and it be not measure by Ofsted , and we all know that we get what we measure . another part of the answer be that teacher lack confidence , because they too have not receive financial education , and they be unsure about their personal finance . far too often , financial education depend on there be a personal convert among the teaching staff . some school do a brilliant job on this issue , but too often that be wholly dependent on there be one member of staff who take the bit between the tooth . just today , Young Enterprise , which operate the secretariat of the all - party group , publish a report call " make the Classroom Count " . it have do research , and have assess the state of provision and how we can improve it . its first conclusion concern the curriculum in both primary and secondary education . this subject be too important to be leave to the periphery of the educational process ; it must be recognise as a core element . if financial education be a core part of the curriculum , it must be measure as such by Ofsted . the second issue be accountability ; we must inspect for financial education , because we get what we measure . the third issue be guidance . there must be access to trust teaching material for hesitant teacher . too often , the all - party group hear that teacher be not sure which resource , from the plethora out there , they should trust , and they be naturally hesitant about brand material come into school . we need the Government to take a step forward and build on the work already be do on trust resource . the fourth point be about awareness ; the Government must be clear and express the fact that financial education be a core part of the curriculum . finally — I put it last because it be the least important — come money and resource . they be necessary — we need money to achieve thing — but if the Government take step one to four , we would be 95 % of the way there . there be a solution to the money side of thing . I understand that the Chancellor be never keen to write a cheque , but we have the dormant asset scheme , and financial inclusion be a core element of the distribution of dormant asset . we also have the National Lottery Heritage Fund , which have offer to match - fund the element spend on financial inclusion . surely there be a way that the Government can make good use of that money . the Government be review the national curriculum , so now be the time for they to take a bold step , and not just have the policy , but ensure that it be act on . will the Minister include financial education in the primary curriculum ? will she undertake to measure what she want to see in our school , and require Ofsted to report on financial education in primary and secondary school ? will she embed financial education in the curriculum , and not just in PSHE ? will she show some ambition , in the light of the 2029 OECD programme for international student assessment on financial literacy ? will she commit to the Government apply to join that scheme ? will the Minister develop the good work of the Oak National Academy , which have produce about 42 online lesson to support financial education and literacy ? will she follow that up with a commitment to develop trust paper resource for the educational sector ? finally , will she consider make proper use of the dormant asset fund and the National Lottery Heritage Fund , and direct additional funding from those source to financial literacy education in our primary and secondary school ? I start by talk about ambition , and I want to finish on that , too . it be profoundly important for the life chance of our constituent over the next 10 , 20 , 30 and 40 year that we grasp this issue now . we spend so much time on tittle - tattle in this Chamber , make cheap debating point that may make the headline in the evening , or tomorrow . I do not care whether this debate be report , as long as we can get this simple change to our educational process and deliver for our constituent . now be the time to do it . rise — Order . I will start with an informal five - minute time limit ; member can help each other . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , for secure this debate . I should first declare not only my interest — I be vice - chair of the APPG , and have be a trustee of girlguide Bristol and South Gloucestershire , and of a brilliant local youth work charity , the Foundation for Active Community Engagement — but my deep and long - stand interest in this subject . improve financial education for child and adult — our focus be on the former this afternoon — be the policy area among thousand of possible one that I choose to focus on in my public policy master ' s degree . unfortunately , that be not because I think financial education be go well , and that there could be lesson to apply to other policy area , but because of how lacking financial education have be , include in my personal experience . there be a real lack of financial education at school in my otherwise excellent state education . important information on different type of mortgage and the key difference between secured and unsecured loan should not feel new at the point of major financial commitment and , crucially , at the point of risk . in January 2020 , the TUC report that total unsecured household debt — that do not include mortgage , and typically have high interest rate — rise to £ 407 billion , the high ever level in the UK , and that be before the pandemic . despite financial education have be add to the secondary curriculum in England through PSHE in 2014 , the Money and Pensions Service find in 2022 that only 38 % of young people recall receive financial education at school . it be important to be clear that this quest for well financial education be not about place a high value on any particular financial choice above other , but everyone should feel capable and confident to make whatever financial decision be right for they and their circumstance . that be too often not the case . I believe that a person ' s background should not determine their life chance and life choice , and the lottery of financial education quality be a huge barrier to make that a reality . the next generation should always do well than the last . if we act to improve financial education , it will help we to make good on that great british promise for all young people — for those across the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency , and beyond . I mention financial education in my maiden speech and be grateful in recent month to have the chance to raise it in the House with our Secretary of State for Education . I ask whether the independent , and welcome , curriculum and assessment review would consider foundational life skill such as financial education at all key stage , along with the resource need to teach they with confidence as part of its work . while none of we in the House can pre - empt the conclusion of that important review , I be glad to hear the Secretary of State ' s confidence that the review would " carefully consider " what young people need in this area and any support that teacher may need for any reform curriculum . report teacher confidence be understandably low , as we have already hear this afternoon , in teach a subject that many of they be not teach either . again , understandably , research show that teacher struggle to prioritise subject that be not assess and be within PSHE . indeed , the Money Charity ' s survey and in - depth interview with teacher around the country in 2016 find that the prioritisation of assess subject be the most commonly identify barrier to deliver financial education , with 80 % of teacher cite it . so even when financial education be on the curriculum at secondary level , it do not appear to be there firmly enough . teacher give so much and have so much to contend with , and I do not believe that anyone in the House would wish to far overburden they , or indeed the curriculum , by add more stand - alone subject . in my view , it be important to consider how financial education can be weave through exist relevant subject such as math to ensure that all young people receive the most relevant education to support they to thrive throughout life . as the daughter of a retire headteacher , I know well than to delve any far into the day - to - day from these Benches , but the evidence suggest that the current approach be not work for anyone . yet there be a wide issue , too . the University of Cambridge find that financial habit typically form from around age seven . that strongly suggest that early support be crucial if we be to break down this barrier to opportunity . it be also worth note that financial education be on the curriculum at both primary and secondary level in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . it be in England in particular where we be lag behind , though implementation remain a challenge more widely . while formal education be of course important , there be also a vital role for other organisation , from financial institution to community organisation . a number be already play their part , from GoHenry help young people to save while take part in money mission to build their long - term financial knowledge and wellbee to HSBC and Girlguiding work together to help girl and young woman build the two thing I touch on early : capability and confidence . I be thrill to speak at the launch of its new " I ' m money confident " badge , even if I have no long my own sash to sew it on to . I will not be able to mention they all , but many more organisation be work in this space , not least Young Enterprise , which provide a diligent and creative secretariat for the all - party parliamentary group . I be also glad to hear recently from Aviva in Stoke Gifford in my constituency about its work with young people . Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope you will not mind if I share my thank to all the teacher and wide organisation use their time , resource and creativity on financial education as part of our collective pursuit of support all young people to thrive . I look forward to hear other contribution to the debate and continue to work for change in this important area and for a fair future for all . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for bring this immensely important debate before the House . I be sure that hon . member will have see the Barclays bank television advert explain how money habit and behaviour be form in young people by the age of seven , but government of all colour have continuously fail in promote the teaching of sound financial management to young people . the education system be suppose to teach young people the game of life , yet currently we be not even teach they the rule of the game before they play . previous Governments try , with the coalition government introduce it into the national curriculum in 2014 , but little progress have be make since then . it be an indictment that one in two Brits be find to be unable to pass a financial literacy test run by the OECD . the UK be well below comparable western nation such as France , Norway and Canada ; indeed , we rank alongside Thailand and Albania . how on earth can it be the case that , as one of the wealthy country in the world , that be where we sit ? why be this of particular concern now ? technology have open up a new world of consumerism . I be able to sit in the comfort of my own home and purchase pretty much any item I would like . it be the epitome of have the freedom to make one ' s own financial decision . however , that freedom come with an understanding of how choice will impact my own personal financial wellbeing . at the click of a mouse or even a touch of a screen , young people can make high - value purchase without know how it may impact they , because they be not teach the importance of budgeting and save . young people be become addict to buy now , pay later scheme , which allow they to enter into credit agreement without fully assess whether they will be able to afford they in a few month ' time . there be also the additional threat of fraudster target young people in the hope that they will not know how to deal with complex financial problem . be it any wonder that 96 % of young people worry about money daily ? we must do something about this . the ongoing national curriculum review should not remove any aspect of the financial education that already exist , since it remain an important part of school life for student . I be not the only one say that , as 95 % of parent believe that school should be at the heart of develop well understanding of financial education for young people . alongside keep it on the national curriculum , well support for teacher and long - last improvement be need . I hear of teacher have real concern about their own ability to teach student about sound money . I strongly urge the Department and its partner to instigate well advice for teacher on how to improve the quality of these lesson . finally , as a strong supporter of apprenticeship and vocational training , I would like the Government to promote financial teaching in post - 16 educational setting . put simply , one in three student leave school at 16 for apprenticeship or employment . at a time of increase spending , they potentially lose all chance of be teach financial education . be it any wonder that nearly half of all apprentice struggle to keep up with their bill ? it would be negligence of the high order not to protect and strengthen the financial education provision for our young people . we must not stand idle and allow the next generation to walk into financial ruin through not understand the thing that , whether we like it or not , make the world go round . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for bring forward this important debate on something that we do not discuss enough . I be not hugely knowledgeable on it until my partner become a financial adviser ; we have lot of financial discussion now . more often than not , she be tell I that I spend too much money on Warhammer . I say it be an investment — it be definitely not . those discussion open my eye massively , and some shocking thing come up . for example , only 20 % of self - employ people pay into a pension . that be a tick time bomb , and we must address it . I really think that come through education . as the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) say , our habit towards money be form at an early age . the evidence for that be overwhelming , and as a government we need to start get on top of it . I see my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) squint a little when member be talk about change what and how teacher should teach — he have a terrible poker face — but we need to look at how to introduce this across the board so that it do not put more pressure on teacher , because they be under enough under enough pressure as it be . some good thing be go on in the private sector . we have great company such as Nationwide , whose headquarters be in Swindon — something I be incredibly proud of . we also have Santander , which be not in Swindon , but it be still do great work so I will give it praise . the Government need to work with some private company to see what they be do and what service they can offer alongside our school , so that we can let our teacher teach and not overburden they . I be really proud to be part of this debate . if we want to look after people and ensure that they do not suffer with mental health issue due to financial stress , we have to get a grip of this . I look forward to hear what the Minister and other member have to say . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for secure this important debate . I find the statistic about what child remember of financial literacy education really sad . it be not that teacher do not want to provide the education but , as other have raise , there be stretch time in the current education system , and perhaps a lack of confidence among teacher . I have a 17 - year - old son , and have ask he a number of time whether he have have the opportunity to learn about budgeting at school . perhaps this just speak to the memory of a 17 - year - old child , but he , like many of his friend , do not remember have have that important opportunity to learn how to budget — most likely , he do not . I sit down with he at the weekend to go through it , and realise how much we , as adult , take for grant the thing that we have learn over the course of life . we should not be rely on the passage of time and the experience of life ; we need to educate our young people about financial literacy from a really early age . as a liberal Democrat and as a mum , I think it be really important that we use the curriculum review to modernise it , and look at a curriculum for life . this be the perfect opportunity to include financial literacy . my personal view , which might raise eyebrow across the House , be that put it into the math curriculum might help young people to see math as something that be relevant to their real life . I be sure that we have all have conversation with teenager who ask , " how be math relevant to my life ? " they say that it be not . well , it very much will be when they get into adulthood and have to deal with mortgage , household budgeting and the rest . the reality of household budgeting come to the forefront of my mind when I meet with Christians against Poverty in my constituency , which do fantastic work with people who have get into debt , often through no fault of their own — through the cost of live crisis and personal circumstance . however , at the root of it be often a lack of financial literacy . we clearly need to provide more opportunity for young people , as well as for adult , because we have already say that young people tend to get their financial education from their parent . I ask the Minister to ensure that there be a deep commitment in the curriculum review to put financial education into the curriculum in a way that will help child to remember it and take it forward in their life . I also ask she to support adult to get the financial education that they need so that they can complete the circle of empower themselves to be well with their finance , and empower the next generation . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for bring this crucial conversation to the Chamber . we be not bear with the ability to open an ISA , choose a private pension or invest our saving . we do not have a natural intuition about how to save or manage debt , or how the tax system work , so why be we send young people from school with little or no formal financial education ? have work for Leicestershire Training and Enterprise Council 25 year ago , where we support young people and adult into education , and have hold a number of role in the social housing sector support tenant welfare , it be clear to I that there be a gap in people ' s financial knowledge . I be really proud of some of the work that I do before come to this place — particularly lead a team to set up the financial and digital inclusion project Moneywise for Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland , target individual , include in my constituency of North West Leicestershire , who be digitally and financially exclude . from run that project , the lack of basic skill around financial education , and how much it be hold people back , become clear to I . through the project , we be able to empower people to have a much more positive relationship with their finance . as a member of the Work and Pensions Committee , it have already become apparent to I that a lack of conversation and knowledge , and probably confidence , about long - term financial planning , be have a detrimental impact on our relationship with our finance . by provide financial education to young people , we have an opportunity to reset our relationship with money and skill . a study by Compare the market and the financial education charity MyBnk find that almost two third of adult survey say that they do not recall receive financial education at school . the same study find that only two in five respondent consider themselves financially literate . there be hope , though . my son be currently study core math at as - level , and we have have many conversation about financial management , from insurance to rent , and mortgage to saving , just because of that course . this be an issue that can unite we across party line . our young people deserve that . at the very least , they deserve a basic understanding of how to manage their future finance . it be not just current and future generation that could benefit ; the Investing and Saving Alliance project that , be the Government to prioritise financial education , we could inject an extra £ 7 billion into the economy each year . that would make a real , measurable and tangible difference to so many young people . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for secure the debate and for his valuable work on the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people . one of my first job be work in advice service . time and time again , people come to we for help after they have stack up debt . many people have the same story . it start out with not have a household budget and have to borrow on credit card or through payday loan on astronomical rate of interest , and eventually they become catch in a spiral of debt and bad decision making . I would like to thank the wonderful staff and volunteer at the Citizens Advice service in my constituency , who do fantastic work try to help people to get back on their foot after problem with debt . work by brancab — Bedworth , Rugby and Nuneaton Citizens Advice — and North Warwickshire Citizens Advice demonstrate that debt have change for people in my constituency . instead of loan and credit card , the component of debt have move , worryingly , to basic housing and utility cost . before covid , financial capability be at the heart of what BRANCAB do and it win a national award for its work , until a lack of funding put an end to it . my area have the fifth high rate of insolvency per 10 , 000 adult in the country , and 18 to 24 - year - old account for 12 % of all insolvency . this be why financial education be so crucial . become insolvent before the age of 24 will have untold effect on their financial stability for year to come and we need to stop more young people fall into that hole . I support the recommendation of the Education Committee to review the content of the math curriculum to expand the provision and relevance of financial education . that sentiment be share by teacher at Polesworth school in my constituency . I support the work do by people such as Rob Boland , who run Cotswold Independent Financial Services and work with the Personal Finance Society , which carry out important educational work around budgeting and tax , and stay safe from scam . it be staggering that I have people come to my surgery who have well - pay job but have no idea when they go to university about the impact of the debt they be sign up to with their student loan , or even what the interest rate mean . we must also recognise that our young people face new challenge . social medium have fuel a get - rich - quick mindset , with influencer encourage young people to try to make money quickly through risky scheme . that be exacerbate by the cost of living crisis . perhaps if Liz Truss have spend a bit more time in financial education class when she be at her grammar school in Leeds she would not have plunge the country into economic disaster . too often we forget that our young people be hit hard by the crisis and be still suffer from financial insecurity . I meet sixth - form student at Nicholas Chamberlaine school in Bedworth recently . they talk to I about how much more difficult it be to find work at the weekend or in the evening , and how they have never receive any kind of education or help around personal finance . I be pleased that the Government have commission an expert - lead curriculum and assessment review to ensure that young people leave school ready for work and ready for life . that , I know , be welcome by local business in my constituency . it be time that we demystify everyday finance , so that everyone can be equip with the skill they need for everyday life and do not have to turn to an advice service for help . I , too , thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for bring forward the debate and for the work he do on the all - party parliamentary group for financial education for young people . I would love to see a world where everybody be financially literate , where people understand their finance , manage they properly , invest , save , manage debt and protect themselves appropriately — in other word , where people be financially savvy . it be good for people and it be good for our economy . financial education develop tool for life and create good habit . it can help people deal with cost of living challenge and help break down barrier to opportunity too , because make the most of resource when there be few of they be paramount . many people lack the basic skill of financial acuman and that disadvantage they through life . however , if someone have a strong grasp of financial concept , they be less likely to get into debt , can make well decision and prosper . that be why financial education be a must for adult and child alike . I have a number of idea about how we can help educate adult too in that area . accord to the government - sponsor Money and Pensions Service , 39 % of adult — more than 20 million people — do not feel confident manage their own money . some 11 . 5 million people have less than £ 100 in saving , and 9 million of we be in serious debt . a Legal and General report , " deadline to Breadline 2022 " , suggest that " the average UK consumer be just 19 day from the breadline " if they lose their income . in my previous life in the banking sector , I know only too well how a lack of financial management blight life . I sadly see several people throughout my career who do not plan and manage their finance appropriately or plan and protect their future appropriately . when life take an unexpected turn and circumstance change , I witness some incredibly sad situation where people lose everything . that story tell we of an urgent need for financial education programme for adult and not just for child . of course , the key to have financially literate adult be to teach financial education in our school . although , as we have hear , it be add to the national curriculum in 2014 , its delivery be patchy at good and it need to be improve . a few year ago , I be invite to deliver a financial education session to a group of sixth - form student . follow the session , a few teacher come over , thank I for what I have teach they and then ask I for some advice — and they be the teacher responsible for deliver that financial education to the pupil . we have hear that financial education be include in the curriculum for secondary school , but I too advocate for its inclusion in primary education . that could be do simply by embrace it in the math syllabus . as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , I support the recommendation that financial education be a mandatory part of the English primary curriculum . training have to be give to teacher and the subject should be promote by the Government in both primary and secondary education . I want to finish with a story of a person whom I admire for their brilliant financial management : a single parent who juggle finance to bring up two boy . she literally have different pot for different fund , from summer holiday to Christmas to birthday to her contingency fund for a rainy day . each week , she would use she perfectly craft budget book to separate out her fund : so much for food , so much for bill and the remainder spread across her pot . she never rely on credit card or borrowing . her son never want for anything , see themselves as equal to their friend and would only really appreciate how stretch the family finance be when they get old . she have that skill embed in she from a young age by her parent . that person be my mum . be financially educate early can have a profound effect on future generation . we need that change . it be an essential life skill , and I implore the Minister to consider that as part of the curriculum review . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for his obvious passion for the subject . in October 2023 , National Trading Standards release research show that 73 % of UK adult have be target by scam , and just over a third of those lose money as a result . the Government be crack down on online crime and fraud , but clearly one other long - term solution be to make sure that everybody be financially educate and financially literate . if we educate our child and young people to be more confident with how and why they manage their money , over time they will be less susceptible to those fraud and scam , which , sadly , can only grow with the development of artificial intelligence . as we have already hear , many young people form their money habit at a very young age , as young as seven or eight . I remember my parent teach I the importance of save , give I a little saving book and make sure that every week I put away some of the £ 3 . 50 that I earn from my job deliver newspaper . unfortunately , as we have also hear , parent who have not manage to acquire financial literacy sometimes pass on bad habit to their child , and up to a third of british worker live from pay cheque to pay cheque . I fear that we be not do enough to help parent and young people to break that cycle . I be shocked to hear people work in food bank say that many user of their service would benefit hugely from financial education and literacy , and even some simple advice on how to draw up a budget and understand how to make sure they will have enough money when the bill be be send out . even simple thing can make a huge difference so that people do not have to end up rely on food bank . with the future as yet unknown , pupil enter secondary school this September will finish their gcse in June 2030 and their a - level in 2032 . if they decide to go on to university , they might graduate in 2035 . I think it safe to say that , while we do not know for sure what opportunity will be available to they — thing may well look very different from the way they look now — good financial education and literacy will stand they in good stead . financial literacy education have previously be add to the national curriculum , but more must be do to ensure that child be teach the subject . financial education must have breadth , teach student not only how to budget and all the good stuff like simple versus compound interest , but enable they to understand the importance of save for a pension , and to recognise an investment scheme that be protect by the Financial Conduct Authority , for instance , so that they can avoid some of the more " sparkling " deal online . the good news be that those who have receive a financial education and remember it be more likely to save , feel confident about money and use a bank account . that show that when effort be put in , it do indeed reap reward . the need for financial education be clear to everyone in the House and beyond . it be not a luxury but a necessity . I well remember be teach in depth about trigonometry , and I have to say that I wish I have be teach about pension instead . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for secure the debate . a typical weekend for I start at the shop , but not a high - street one , although there be plenty of those in York . instead , it be my toddler ' s plastic shop full of fruit , veg and , of course , Yorkshire Tea . when I try to pay with cash , I be tell , " no , daddy ! use card . " it be a world away from grow up , even in the 1990 . we face a great paradox in this country . we have a world - lead financial service sector , but , accord to a recent UK Finance report , the UK rank 15th out of 29 country for financial literacy among adult . it be imperative that we do well here at home . for too long we have struggle to bolster financial education in school . my wife be a dedicated teacher , whose current battle be teach child about the value and shape of a 20p coin . on a more serious note , however , I worry about the impact that social medium have on child when it come to financial advice . I call this the " Tiktokification " of financial education . we often see influencer give out unregulated advice , drive the sale of harmful product plug as " get quick rich " scheme . as a former regulator at the Financial Conduct Authority , I can say with some degree of certainty that regulator be not up to speed on this . let I now say something about the insurance sector . at the FCA , we see that consumer have a poor understanding of matter such as " shrinkflation " when their policy do not keep up to date with their need . too rarely do they understand concept such as auto - renewal . far too many household , we find in Britain , be either under - cover or over - covered . my hon . friend ' s speech have make I laugh , as his speech usually do . through my family and the community in which I grow up , I have see that many people who fall victim to scam be once extremely savvy about financial management . the people who fall into these trap once run their own business or have quite a mature understanding of these thing . financial education have its limit , so we still need very strong protection . when many people have more than one insurance policy for the same thing , be we not fail they ? they do not need education ; they just need people they can go to who can protect they and give they advice on issue they may never fully understand . I will come on to scam , but on the question of advice , I welcome the FCA ' s advice guidance boundary review . financial advice be often too difficult for consumer to access . we also need great financial education on insurance . I recently use Google Analytics to research search trend . since 2004 , there have be a rapid increase in the number of people search " opt out of my pension . " how can we expect people to save into their pension when the benefit be so poorly communicate ? the public be ask to fuel their car for a long journey , but when it come to retirement , they do not know how far the road go . we must make that cultural shift . with the forthcoming pension review , we must reinvent and reinvigorate our retirement saving . there be no more important time to educate people about pension than at school . member will know that I be passionate about tackle fraud . indeed , my old job be break fraud attempt in the private sector . even now , as an MP , I hear heartbreake story of constituent who have fall victim to scam . the british population be target by organise criminal from across the globe , which be drive by the popularity of the english language and the affluence of the UK . I know from a recent visit to City of London police that fraud and cyber - crime account for 50 % of all crime — let that sink in . for too long , the UK have be a target . I praise the Minister for Security , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , and Lord Hanson for their important work . great public awareness of how to spot a scam , and socialise some of these concept , be important . I praise Martin Lewis for raise awareness of celebrity impersonation scam , and I praise his Money and Mental Health Policy Institute for do much to remove the stigma of be scamme . great education ultimately mean great fraud awareness . financial education be not the sole responsibility of this House , this Government or even teacher . it be down to firm , and I be hearten by my engagement with the sector . StepChange have also do important work on debt advice . I give a special shout - out to the Financial Inclusion Commission , which I recently join . when it come to financial education , we must ensure that the financial sector play its part . I close by return to my son ' s plastic greengrocery . I be do my bit for the next generation , but I be just one household . we have to think of new way to engage the generation of tomorrow on thing like pension , scam and insurance . this require financial education in school , and I hope to play my part in that debate . I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) and my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) for secure this debate . I can tell my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) that a 20p coin be heptagonal . I support the need for further financial education in school , but as member may have sense from my poker face early , I have a few caveat . please take they as constructive , rather than destructive . have work for a homelessness charity , I know that people can not budget their way out of poverty , but this conversation be not just about budgeting . it be about the wide view and idea on financial education . member on both side of the House have recognise the power of teach young people about some of these pitfall and scam , such as the impact of turn to payday loan shark when time be tough . it be not about tell young people how they have to live their life or what they have to do , but about provide awareness of the danger that they face . as many hon . member will know , because I mention it in almost every speech I give , I use to be a teacher . I be a secondary school math teacher for 15 year , teach young people from year 7 to year 13 , include teach a - level math and further math , so I teach math up to degree level . I absolutely love trigonometry . wait until you get to further math trigonometry , and sine and cosine rule , Madam Deputy Speaker — I can tell you , it be brilliant . I also specialise in statistic , strangely enough , despite my engineering degree . there be a misapprehension that the ability to teach math equate — excuse the pun — to an ability to teach finance . if we be have the ordinary to and fro that we normally see in the Chamber , I would defend myself by point out that I can read a book , but I can not teach English literature . finance and math both include number , but history and English both include word and they be different subject . when I chat to my conservative friend — he be the reason I be in this place — we have very animate discussion about education . I once say to he , " what do you think be the most important skill for a teacher ? " he say , " well , discipline , and the ability to get mark do on time . " he come up with a whole list of thing , but I say to he , " the one thing you have not mention be the ability to explain thing clearly — surely that be the most important skill for a teacher . " I could teach the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham how to do compound interest , which come up on the math curriculum , but if I be ask to teach he how pension work , I would struggle . that mean not that I do not know how pension work , but that I have not be teach the skill to teach that to somebody else . People do not naturally have the ability to explain thing ; they have to be train in that skill . I hope what I be say , in a roundabout way , be see as constructive , not critical . if we believe in financial education — [ interruption . ] it be just like be back at school — put the phone in the box , Minister . you don ' t have to really — [ Laughter . ] if we believe that teach financial education be important in school , then it have to be teach properly . the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham correctly say that measure be bring through this place over 10 year ago , but the subject be not truly be teach in school in the way that we would like it to be . I would like it to be a distinct , bespoke subject . at worst , it could be a module teach as part of a subject like business study or economic — my wife be an economics teacher , so she will love I for that suggestion — rather than add to the already extensive math curriculum . I do not think it would be feasible to add financial education to the math curriculum or that that would have the outcome that the House want to see . the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham talk about the importance of financial education be measurable , and I could not agree more . one of my big frustration as a math teacher — have I get time , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I will not go on a big story — be when a student would say to I , " be this go to be in the exam ? " that be frustrating because I genuinely love math . I want to teach people that a2 + b2 = c2 , not because it be go to come up in the exam but because it be truly interesting . it be the way he say it . I can see the hon . Gentleman be a model student . we have to recognise the way the school system currently work . if young people think there will not be an exam on a subject , they do not think that subject be measurable . equally , if teacher do not see that something be go to be measurable in an ofsted inspection , it will be move down the list of priority . we have to recognise that a lot of teacher have a lot on their plate . if we want financial education to be on the top of the plate — the cherry on the top , perhaps — we need to ensure that it be measurable , accountable and take seriously . I do not believe that bolt financial education on to the math curriculum will make that happen ; I would much prefer it to be a bespoke subject . I have ramble on enough but hopefully I have make my point . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be not quite sure how I be suppose to follow the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . he be extremely entertaining and informative . I wish to thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for secure this debate . he speak with passion and empathy for those who be struggle with financial literacy and make sure that this House know how important that topic be . all member in this House have probably at some point come across somebody — perhaps a constituent on a doorstep , a family member or a friend — who say that people just do not get teach what they need to know in life at school . that be overdone slightly ; the fundamental of math , science and literacy do serve we well in life , but there be truth in that statement . some of the hard , practical , daily challenge of adulthood be often not address properly , at least not in an applied way , during our education . nowhere be this more apparent than in financial literacy , which be , of course , distinct from numeracy . it be not just about add and subtract , or even work out percentage , but budgeting , debt management , save for the future and investing . these be thing that can empower people to make well decision for their life and set they up to achieve their goal . but we let people down when we view these skill as specialist rather than essential . let I focus on two element in particular : investing and debt . the British seem to have a big problem with investing . there be an assumption that it be for trader or the rich , and our national conversation tend to shy away from it . pension be about the only arena in which it be discuss properly , but even then it be kind of push to the back of our mind . it be all about auto - enrolment and it be deal with out of sight by other . I wish to pick up on the point make by the hon . member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) about how few of the self - employ invest in their own pension . that certainly happen to my parent who be self - employ all their life . I be self - employ too and , for the large bulk of my career , I do not invest in a pension . if Brits be equip with the knowledge and the skill to make relatively safe , sensible investment over the course of their lifetime , the benefit to those individual and to the economy as a whole would be enormous . research by Moneybox reveal that two third of Britons be £ 65 , 000 bad off on average due to low financial confidence and knowledge . astonishingly , it suggest that if these people be well equip it would equate to a potential £ 2 trillion of extra spending power in the UK economy over their lifetime . member might think that this difference merely correlate with the have and the have not , but Moneybox ' s research find that , in most instance , the key indicator of success be financial confidence and not where people start in life . this alone should motivate we to improve the delivery of financial education in school , but also to ensure that all adult can well equip themselves today . although this be beyond the scope of the debate today , this be where the advice guidance boundary review could be crucial for Britain ' s growth prospect . we must upskill all of Britain today and not only the citizen of the future . let I turn now to debt . the consequence of get this wrong be grave . our failure to equip people with the knowledge that they need to manage and escape debt put the most vulnerable in our society at risk — risk of hunger , risk of ill health and risk of financial ruin . my inbox be full of email from people who reach crisis point before seek help . in each case , there be so many straightforward step that they could have take to prevent escalation , but a combination of shame and financial illiteracy leave people strand , helplessly watch on as their situation go from bad to bad . I wish to pick up on the point make by the hon . member for Harlow about people not be able to budget their way out of poverty . he be absolutely right , but we can stop people from spiral and make thing bad . this point be deeply personal to I . I have see my family suffer from the crippling nature of debt on more than one occasion — both as a child and as an adult . I sometimes think to myself that I just wish that they have reach out to I soon . but I have a well wish than that : I wish that our education system and society more broadly talk about debt and how to deal with it far more openly . when I visit my local citizen advice bureau in Wallington recently , staff tell I how predatory company be offer individual voluntary arrangement to people who be totally ill - suited to they . on the face of it , the attraction be clear . instead of struggle with debt on multiple front , a person can make one simple regular payment to a company and that company will deal with everything for they . the trouble be that these company do not always act in the individual ' s interest . they have an incentive to sell iva , as they make money from they , and they end up be sell to people who have well alternative , such as debt management order . this practice need to be regulate well , but we should also empower citizen to know well . the Liberal Democrats support a modernised curriculum — a curriculum for life that ensure that child be equip with the skill require for adulthood , with a focus on a well understanding of personal finance and financial responsibility . clearly , financial education need to start early and must become a key part of the primary curriculum . research show that money habit be set at the age of seven , yet there be no statutory requirement to teach personal finance in primary school in England . furthermore , we must support teacher to deliver that education effectively . that mean provide centralised guidance , teacher training and signpost to quality resource . the Government should back the national campaign to raise awareness of financial education and its benefit , and support initiative such as my Money Week , which promote financial literacy in school and community . but the job do not end in school , and the urgent need to address financial illiteracy can not be overstate . as the hon . member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) outline , today ' s young people be increasingly turn to social medium for financial advice . just last week , the financial wellbeing charity your money find that six in 10 young people follow so - call financial influencer , or " finfluencer " , which be difficult to say , with 77 % trust their advice . alarmingly , one in 10 say that they would act on that advice without do further research . if we do not fill the gap , other will . the Liberal Democrats will continue to push for measure that address financial exclusion . that can be do by support banking hub , with their crucial offer of face - to - face advice , as well as by protect funding for citizen advice bureaux , such as the one that I visit in Wallington . the evidence be overwhelming : financial education be not a " nice to have " ; it be essential for the wellbeing of our citizen and the future of our economy . I urge the Government to act decisively and ensure that every child in the UK have access to the financial education that they need and deserve . I call the shadow Minister . I warmly congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) on secure this important debate , and I commend he for his sustained effort to drive up the quality and availability of financial education offer to our young people . there be sometimes a tendency in this House — perhaps an understandable one — to gravitate towards short - termism . it be therefore a sincere pleasure to follow my hon . friend , who , along with his colleague in the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people , have be do such excellent work to promote reform that take a long view and be gear towards boost the life chance of future generation . good financial education , deliver not only by school , but by parent and family and within community , have the potential to produce a generation wise to the danger of credit card debt , alert to the practice of predatory payday lender , and confident in their ability to open a bank account and budget appropriately . I believe that all of we in this place be truly committed to reduce inequality and ensure that everyone have the good possible start in life , and I can think of few well idea than ensure that all young people enter adulthood with a sound grasp of how to manage their money . the british public seem to share that assessment . a research survey of UK adult conduct by Santander reveal that a full 70 % feel that well financial education in their young year would have improve their ability to manage their finance through the ongoing cost of living crisis . meanwhile , two third of young people believe that a lack of financial education have play a role in they amass the debt that they hold . indeed , it be not just adult but child who be deeply concerned about financial matter . the London Institute of Banking and Finance report in 2023 that 68 % of child worry about money and their personal finance . that figure be hardly surprising when we consider that today ' s child be the most digitally expose in history ; they face a constant barrage of offer to spend money in alluring but wasteful way . many of the app download on to the phone that our child spend so much time on be full of shine icon , invite they to spend real - world money , with the tap of a finger , in exchange for worthless in - game currency . young player of online game be prompt to spend , in some case , hundred of pound on loot box or so - call cosmetic item — that is , a virtual in - game weapon , or an outfit that be a slightly different colour from the default option . financial literacy be clearly a skill that our child and young people need , to protect they and prepare they for the future . although there be undoubtedly still work to be do , I briefly draw the House ' s attention to the solid foundation lay by successive conservative government over the past 14 year . after all , the Conservatives leave England as one of the top - perform country in education . under the Conservative Government , child in England be name the good in the west for reading , and be rank well at math in the western world in the 2023 TIMSS — trend in international mathematic and science study . it be a Conservative Government who create the national network of 40 math hub to support school in improve their mathematic teaching . that network be a partnership between school , college and other organisation that work together to provide support for math teach in their region . the positive impact of those hub on young people ' s ability to manage and understand money and finance be obvious . we be clear that we intend to go far : at the last election , we set out a comprehensive plan to ensure that every child study math to the age of 18 , so that they would leave school with good numeracy skill . that would help they to navigate their finance with confidence . that be not to suggest that the entire burden of provide robust financial education can or should fall upon our school . as be so often the case , family also have a central role to play in ensure that child be imbue with good financial common sense . that do not need to be overly complex ; simple measure , such as offer child small amount of weekly pocket money , can help to normalise good habit such as save and think carefully before make purchase . accord to an ING survey of 12 , 000 parent across Europe , give child pocket money reduce the risk of they get into debt as adult . I be a great example of that . whenever I be 16 , my mum take I down to Northern Bank , as it be then , give I £ 10 — I could have buy a second - hand car for that in those day — and tell I to put it in my bank account . do the hon . Lady agree that if everybody have a mother like mine , they would be a lot well off ? I thank the hon . member for that great contribution to the debate . I agree that all those small thing add up and make a difference to our financial literacy . I be a chartered accountant , but that be not what make I financially literate ; it be the lesson I be teach by my family , and the job that I do when I be young . member have give great example of how they come to understand finance . in an increasingly contactless world , it be important that child and young people physically see and feel cash . that be the way in which value be tangibly understand . to return to school , financial education be not , as have be note , a statutory part of the national curriculum in primary school in England , but in contrast , in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , it be very much embed at primary level . give the way in which our child be relentlessly pressure to spend money that they may not even have , and in the light of Cambridge University research suggest that habit and attitude towards money be form by the age of seven , there be much logic to the argument that financial education — whether deliver by school , parent or even community hub and other organisation — should not wait for the later year , and should be continuous . teacher also feel that start good financial education early be important for the future wellbeing of young people . accord to a 2020 survey , 82 % of primary teacher consider teach financial education to be very important . we may hear more about that when the Francis review of the national curriculum be complete . I urge the Minister to answer the question that my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ask about the Government ' s plan for the curriculum . in secondary school , the picture be somewhat different . in 2014 , the then Conservative Government act to ensure that financial education be place on a statutory footing in local authority school . however , the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people — which I once again praise as an outstanding example of everything an APPG should aspire to be — note in its 2023 " build beyond Barriers " report that over half of teacher do not know that financial education be part of the curriculum at all . that be a matter of some concern . it be certainly important that the topic of financial education be address in the classroom in an appropriate way . I have no doubt that our hard - work teacher be keen to play their part in deliver that content . the same report find that three in four teacher believe that they should play a lead role in impart financial skill to child . the obstacle be report to be inadequate training , limited funding and an understandable feeling that there be simply not sufficient time in the school year to deliver those lesson . in government , the Conservatives seek to mitigate the funding issue with an investment of over £ 1 million to embed and scale teacher training in financial education . the Money and Pensions Service do excellent work develop and testing approach to support teacher , and practitioner work with child and young people in vulnerable circumstance , to deliver financial education . ultimately , though , we must acknowledge that the school timetable be already under intense pressure , and there be many compete call on limited time . that be why I would argue that the good financial education that every child deserve be well deliver not only in school , but in the family set , in community , and with the help of valuable resource . I conclude with a simple message , which I hope underscore some of the excellent contribution that we have hear today : financial education be invaluable and transform life outcome . research undertake by Compare the Market tell we that today , just two fifth of young adult rank as financially literate . we can and must do well . conservative Members will keep these matter under careful review , and I hope that the Minister will address the question that have be raise . once again , I thank all those who have speak , and in particular my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham . I congratulate the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) on secure a debate on this important subject . I also thank the all - party parliamentary group on financial education for young people for highlight the importance of financial education through its focused inquiry , and I absolutely recognise that it be an esteemed appg . I will endeavour to respond to the point that the hon . Member have make , but I also wish to acknowledge the many point make by hon . friend and hon . member from across the Chamber . my hon . friend the Member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) speak about people ' s confidence in make the financial decision that be right for they , and highlight the fact that she mention financial education in her maiden speech . the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) speak about online purchase and the importance of make sure that we fully understand what be happen in that space . my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) speak about self - employ people and the need to understand pension . the hon . member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) speak about the importance of financial literacy from an early age . many other hon . member — my hon . friend the Members for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) , for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) and for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) — speak about investment , bank , parent , and various thing to do with financial education for child and young people . my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , a teacher himself , speak passionately about financial education , and I should add that the alarm that go off be a school alarm . of course , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , also speak about this important topic . the skill , knowledge , attitude and behaviour that help people to manage money and achieve good financial wellbeing begin to develop from an early age and continue to develop through childhood and the teenage year . research show that financial education in school have a positive impact on child ' s and young people ' s financial capability . the Money and Pensions Service ' s survey of child and young people find that those who recall learn about money at school be more likely to be active saver , have a bank account that they use , be confident with money management , and have positive attitude towards money . it be so important to teach those thing at the right time , and it be never too early to start . young people may be make financial decision about digital transaction and in - game currency , and they need to be aware of the issue and potential danger . math underpin effective financial management , understanding of financial risk and the confident and competent application of financial skill and tool . the Programme for International Student Assessment show a strong correlation between result in financial literacy and in math , with an average correlation of 0 . 87 across OECD country . the primary math curriculum include arithmetic knowledge that support pupil ' ability to manage budget and money , such as knowledge to do with calculation involve money and percentage . in secondary math , pupil be teach topic such as how to calculate compound interest , which be relevant for personal finance . the non - statutory primary citizenship programme of study at key stage 1 and 2 equip pupil to understand the source and purpose of money and the benefit of saving . it make it clear that financial context be useful for learn about make choice and explore social and moral dilemma . the national curriculum for citizenship at key stage 3 and 4 prepare student to manage their money well and plan for future financial need . key stage 3 cover the function and use of money , day - to - day money management , budgeting and manage risk . key stage 4 cover income and expenditure , credit and debt , insurance , saving , pension , and financial product and service . however , more obviously need to be do to embed learn and ensure that child and young people fully understand it . the computing curriculum provide the fundamental e - safety knowledge and thinking skill that empower child to make well - inform decision about technology , which may include use it in a financial context . through statutory relationship , sex and health education , pupil be teach about internet safety and online harm , such as the risk associate with online gambling and the accumulation of debt . pupil also learn how debt be generate , collect , share and use online . move to the curriculum and assessment review , which have be mention by member across the Chamber , high and rise school standard be at the heart of the opportunity mission for this Government . that be why we have establish an independent , expert - lead curriculum and assessment review , cover age from five to 18 , chair by Professor Becky Francis CBE . the review seek to deliver an excellent foundation in core subject , include math , and a rich and broad , inclusive and innovative curriculum that ready young people for life and work . the review group will publish an interim report in early spring set out its interim finding and confirm the key area for further work , and it will publish its final report with recommendation this autumn . we will take decision on what change need to be make in the light of those recommendation . ofsted inspection currently consider whether pupil be receive a rounded education and evaluate the quality of education , include pupil ' achievement over time , behaviour and attitude , personal development , and leadership and management . all school , regardless of category and phase , be inspect for their ability to deliver a broad and balanced curriculum . ofsted inspector evaluate the quality of education , and element of financial education may be in scope when Ofsted conduct a deep dive into mathematic . the Government ' s Money and Pensions Service be an arm ' s length body of the Department for Work and Pensions , with a statutory duty to co - ordinate the UK strategy for financial wellbeing . it publish the UK strategy for financial wellbee in January 2020 , which be a 10 - year framework to help UK citizen make the most of their money and pension . one of the key theme of the strategy be support the financial wellbeing of child and young people . it set a national goal to ensure that 2 million more child and young people receive a meaningful financial education by 2030 . as a Government , we will consider far the suitability of the support available to school in the light of the curriculum review outcome . however , it may be helpful to the House if I set out what be already available by way of support . the Money and Pensions Service have publish guidance set out how school can improve the financial education they deliver , and signpost to service and resource . the financial education quality mark , fund by the Money and Pensions Service and deliver by Young Enterprise , quality - assure resource for teacher and other to support the provision of financial education . resource with the financial education quality mark be freely available on the Young Money resource hub . support for curriculum delivery be also available through optional , free and adaptable resource from Oak National Academy . Oak have complete its initial curriculum resource for math , and it will be produce additional lesson on financial education and apply math in real life context across key stage 1 to 4 . those be expect to be available from spring 2025 , and lesson on finance and the economy also feature in Oak ' s new citizenship curriculum , launch early this academic year . teach resource for those lesson will be release by autumn 2025 . his Majesty ' s Treasury work closely with the financial service sector to ensure that provider play a role in support people to manage their money . in 2021 , financial service organisation be the large funder and provider of financial education programme , with 46 programme reach 4 . 7 million child and young people , and a total spend of £ 7 . 5 million . in 2023 , member of UK Finance , include bank and other financial service provider , provide financial education lesson to more than 4 . 1 million child and young people in school and community setting . on 5 December it be announce that the Government will develop a financial inclusion strategy , alongside a support committee to tackle the problem of financial exclusion . the Government will work with consumer group and industry on the development of that strategy , which will aim to tackle barrier to individual and household ability to access affordable and appropriate financial product and service . as part of that , the committee will consider the role play by financial capability in consumer use and understanding of product . in conclusion , I thank the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham for secure this debate , as well as those who have contribute to it so knowledgeably and articulately . many school already have high - quality financial educational provision in place , but every child and young person should have every opportunity to achieve and thrive . the reform I have set out will ensure that every child be set up for the good start in life , include a curriculum that be rich , broad , inclusive , innovative , and that ready young people for life and work . there be always much that need to be do , and we must and do take responsibility . we will build on our early effort and work at pace to ensure that every child have the qualified expert teacher they need . we recognise that training need to evolve so that teacher remain competent and confident to teach and adapt the curriculum . that be why the work of the Money and Pensions Service , through its data collection , national strategy and delivery plan be so important . we must continue to work closely across the Government and in partnership with other to ensure that we approach challenge in a co - ordinate and evidence drive way . we will consider what more we can do in the context of the curriculum and assessment review , with workforce reform to ensure that the financial education pupil receive be relevant and teach with passion by confident and committed teacher . I thank Young Enterprise , the secretariat of the all - party group on financial education for young people , the Money and Pensions Service , GoHenry , MyBnk , HSBC , Santander , your money , Money Wellness , the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries , AQA , UK Finance , and the Bank of England , who all brief in advance of this debate . I particularly thank the hon . member for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) , my co - conspirator in the debate , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on her first outing at the Dispatch Box . I think she do brilliantly . when talk about financial education , I start with my own family . I realise that I may have go a bit too far when one of my grow - up child confide to I recently that she feel physically sick every time she spend money , so I may have overdo it a little . equally , 175 year ago , my forebear , Henry Mayhew , be declare bankrupt for the third time . his great friend be Charles Dickens , and it be say that the character of Mr Micawber be base on Henry , so I will end the debate with one of the more famous quote from Mr Micawber : " annual income twenty pound , annual expenditure nineteen and six , result happiness . annual income twenty pound , annual expenditure twenty - pound ought and six , result misery . " how right he be . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider financial education . Manufacturing and Engineering ( Northern Ireland ) Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I usually have the graveyard shift down in Westminster Hall on a Thursday afternoon . I think this exceed that , give the time . it be a pleasure to have this important debate . I be pleased to see the Minister for Industry , the hon . member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , in her place . she have see my ask , so I hope she can respond to they . I be also pleased to see the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland here , too . I will try to focus on the plus that we have , and I then have a number of question to ask the Minister . as she have see those in advance , I hope we can have a positive glass half - full debate . that would be great . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be not often we get to share time together , but you have I whether you like it or not , for at least half an hour or thereabout . I be so appreciative of this time in the House to highlight the need of the manufacturing and engineering industry in Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland have fast become a giant in aerospace . we have a skilled workforce , low overhead and the perfect connectivity for business investment . that be what we have and that be what we do . we have not only the manufacture giant Spirit AeroSystems , but Wrightbus , Harland and Wolff and Thales — the list go on . they be all supply with specialist part by a plethora of skilled small engineering firm that dot throughout the Province , in particular in Strangford . I must make clear from the outset that when I talk about the manufacturing industry today , I do not just mean the big firm ; I be think of all the small firm that rely on this business . the impact on the local economy be massive . indeed , Invest NI have highlight that manufacturing account for some 11 % of employment and 15 % of gross value add , make it a key sector in the Northern Ireland economy . I underline that it be a key sector , and I can not underline that enough . it be vital for Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland be home to five company with the SC21 supply - chain quality system gold award , out of a total of nine across the United Kingdom . Northern Ireland be again , as the Secretary of State will know , kick on and work above the standard that many have for the United Kingdom . with five out of nine , we have more than any other UK region . we offer a reliable , successful , and competitive supply chain , with expertise in key technology . for automobile , we be the world - lead region for the supply of tyre pressure monitoring system , and we have leading capability in the manufacture of complex aluminium casting , as well as key strength in the production of composite vehicle body for lead sport car brand . we do much in Northern Ireland . we have world - class solution in the design and manufacture of mobile bulk processing and wet - process equipment . when people buy from Northern Ireland , they buy 60 year of lead the world in mobile bulk material processing equipment , and we manufacture more than 40 % of the world ' s mobile crushing and screen equipment . again , I want to say these thing because Northern Ireland often lead the way , and it be always a privilege to come and tell not only the world , but this Chamber about that . the low - carbon sector employ more than 12 , 000 people in more than 300 company , with an annual turnover in excess of £ 1 . 7 billion . Northern Ireland company have the capability of provide a range of innovative product and service to address the specific need of the various energy and water supply chain . the wastewater sector in Northern Ireland have a turnover of £ 1 . 1 billion in 2019 , a gva of £ 0 . 8 billion and 7 , 000 employee . Northern Ireland be one of the most diverse consumer good sector in the UK , offer a wide range of design and manufacturing - base company . More than 4 , 800 people be employ in the sector . our company have develop manufacturing capability and design or technology - lead product and continue to remain competitive in a global marketplace . while that be the foundation of the big picture of manufacturing in Northern Ireland , I also highlight that we be yet to meet our potential , which simply can not be meet without great investment , know that for every penny spend , the local economy reap the benefit in pound . with that in mind , I have be in contact with and meet the GMB and Unite union represent Spirit , who have indicate the support need in the sale of business transition . Spirit AeroSystems facility in Northern Ireland produce part for a variety of aircraft manufacturer , with about 45 % of production on the wing and fuselage for Airbus . that work employ — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I know what be happen there ; I just have not look up at the clock . it be a pleasure to continue the debate . I refer to the Airbus fuselage and how that work employ 33 % of the 3 , 700 - strong labour force . labour - intensive contract equate to some 47 % of production — work for Bombardier and small aircraft manufacturer such as HondaJet and Rolls - Royce — and the remain about 20 % of work be in engineer IT , human resource , quality assurance and so on . it be really important that we focus , if we can , on where we be . Boeing ' s interest in purchase Spirit be primarily about consolidate its own supply chain to ensure quality control . it have no interest in retain production for its primary competitor , Airbus . currently , Airbus ' s intention be to take control of Spirit operation in its own supply chain ; it have no interest in production for other aircraft producer . further challenge be pose by the fact that operation across Spirit site be integrate . worker be employ across different project for different client , so even if a division of activity under separate ownership be possible , it be unclear whether those operation could be sustain . that be one of our concern . I look to the Minister and to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland for some help on that . I believe the opinion of the union be that the facility must remain under one owner , as that be the only option that would guarantee and safeguard production . Airbus already operate a model that would make the retention of highly skilled job in Northern Ireland possible through , for instance , integration into the Airbus Atlantic group . that would include production site across five different country — that give flexibility and strength across continent . Airbus already operate contract with a variety of partner include , again , Bombardier , Dassault Aviation and ATR . the Northern Ireland facility be critical to Airbus and its future growth . Belfast be a vital supplier to the a220 , and it can not risk any disruption to production by take control of the entire site . a single owner could avoid the outsourcing problem that have plague Boeing , and disruption could also bring liability for hefty financial penalty . I have to underline that the worker in Belfast , who have give many year of service — their blood , sweat and tear — be the innovator and builder of the Airbus project . the unique expertise in Belfast can not be easily replicate elsewhere . it be unique to we in Belfast , and it be important that it be retain as such . accord to report , Spirit Belfast will be profitable if production increase to the plan - for 14 aircraft a month in 2025 . the non - Airbus work at Spirit Belfast could be view as a bonus for Airbus , not a burden . Spirit Belfast have also recently sign two promising new contract with successful aerospace company that be likely to improve the plant ' s profitability . Bombardier , which represent some 30 % and grow of the work do at Spirit Belfast , have also be a customer for 35 year . there be clear continuity on the base and among the workforce . all local political representative and all party across all of Northern Ireland , Spirit management and the Department agree with our demand for a one - owner solution as the good outcome for all worker , the aerospace sector and the wide Northern Ireland economy . however , to date , disappointingly — I say this with respect ; I always do because that be the person I be — the chief executive of all the respective company and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have fail to engage with senior steward or the workforce . if that have change , I will be more than happy , but whenever I meet they a few week ago , that have not happen . they appear to be leave thousand of job and livelihood at risk or of be dictate to by the market . this decision be not acceptable ; neither be it in the good interest of the 3 , 700 worker impact . it be imperative that the next course of action be to maintain and future - proof the highly skilled job and the approximately 7 , 400 job intertwine via the supply chain in the Northern Ireland economy . that would continue a vibrant and historic aerospace sector in Northern Ireland . the workforce need the support of central Government . I be quite sure that the Minister and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland will reassure we . why be this important ? Spirit AeroSystems be a linchpin of the economy in the great Belfast area . statistical analysis from the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , " structure of the Northern Ireland Economy 2020 " , publish in September 2024 , estimate that for every job sustain in the non - automobile vehicle production sector in Northern Ireland , almost two more job in the broad economy , local service and the supply chain be sustain through indirect and induced employment . for every one job , there be two more out there , so we get three for the price of one . consider the high value - add nature of Spirit ' s activity , with very developed local supply chain both regionally and across Britain and Ireland , that ratio be even high . it be estimate that the 3 , 700 job at the company ' s site in Northern Ireland sustain a further 7 , 400 indirect and induced job in the wide service economy and supply chain , base on the NISRA type II employment multipli for manufacturer of other transport equipment . the data be clear , and we need the help . any threat to Spirit ' s operation in Northern Ireland translate to a potential threat to more than 11 , 000 job in the wide economy . such a threat would be devastating for the Northern Ireland economy , as the wage bill for the Spirit workforce alone amount to approximately £ 250 million a year , contribute a large percentage of the region ' s total economic consumption . it be not small fry ; it mean a lot to the Northern Ireland economy , as do the skill factor of those job . the total expenditure of the company be estimate to be at least £ 600 million a year . the loss of this productive activity would have a huge impact on the Northern Ireland economy . this be key , vital and really important . base on the 2024 NISRA estimate from a type ii economic multipli for the manufacture of other transport equipment , a reduction of £ 600 million in demand would reduce Northern Ireland ' s gross value add by £ 1 . 4 billion . that be more than 3 % of the region ' s total annual economic output . that illustrate the vital importance of this sector . Spirit ' s production be also a critical element of Northern Ireland ' s heavy industrial base and a key driver for export . it be vital to the realisation of any regional manufacturing or industrial strategy that may be agree at the Stormont Executive . these job represent some of the good employment opportunity for individual who come from the working - class area of Belfast and the wide community . the Secretary of State and the Minister know that — we all do . the cross - community employment at the site benefit all work - class area , with the job create have a profound impact on the transition away from a conflictual society . I know the Secretary of State be commit to that . I want that for our society . this be part of how we do that : we give people job and opportunity across the community , to help the community to heal and to move forward . I would certainly like to see that . youth employment opportunity in the aerospace sector be always attractive to young worker from all community who be seek to improve their life . just before Christmas , my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and I visit the Thales factory . I be really impress by their commitment to opportunity for apprentice . they be help apprentice to earn a wage , and they look after student fee . they do not want just an apprentice ; they want someone for their entire work life in that factory . I be concerned that any loss of these skilled job would cast a very dark cloud over community in Northern Ireland that be still emerge and transition from the legacy of conflict , at a critical juncture in the history of Northern Ireland . I never doubt that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland be commit to find a way forward . this be part of the healing process , move forward and bring we together . I ask the Minister gently to get involve — I do not mean that aggressively — and I ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland to expend every effort to advance a one - owner entity and ensure that , whoever buy Spirit AeroSystems ' operation in Northern Ireland , the vital social and economic importance of the job that it provide be fully recognise and safeguard . that be in the interest of all stakeholder , and this great mother of Parliaments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . it must be the override priority in the come week and month . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all those who have attend tonight : the Minister , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and his shadow , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , who have a deep interest in Northern Ireland . I speak as the MP for Strangford , and on behalf of the business and home involve . it be not just about job ; it be about every one of the 11 , 000 people who have a home , a mortgage and a family . those people contribute to Northern Ireland , and want to contribute positively go forward . they be support by the manufacturing industry , which , importantly , need the involvement of the Government to secure a good deal . with a new US Administration and a desire to enhance relation between our nation , I believe that now be the time for action . I look to the Minister with the great respect , in anticipation of what she will tell we . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for introduce today ' s debate in his usual style of gentle persistence , and for the birthday message that he send I back in December . I think he be the only Member of Parliament who send birthday message to every MP . the care with which he treat all of we be an example to we all . I have a list here of all the good thing about Northern Ireland manufacturing . the hon . Member have list most of they already . for the benefit of the House , I will not repeat the case that he have make ; I will just set out a few thing about the Government ' s approach . first , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and I , and other , be in Northern Ireland when we be able to announce a successful outcome on the Harland and Wolff deal . when we first come to power last July , it be one of the early industry in distress that come across our desk . we be face with the possible collapse of Harland and Wolff , and there be absolutely no way we could allow that to happen . we all work very hard to ensure that there be a deal that work both for the Ministry of Defence , in term of the fleet solid support contract for Navantia , and its commercial interest and what it could do , and for the worker of Harland and Wolff . we do not do that because we be good people and we do not want to see job loss , although those thing be true ; we do it because the four Harland and Wolff site be of incredible strategic importance to we . as it happen , I be in Methil yesterday , the Harland and Wolff site in Fife , where there be a huge future for offshore wind . the site can build part of that future . sometimes we look through misty eye at what have happen in the past in Belfast , and what Harland and Wolff use to be . the way we see it be : let we look at what it can be in the future , and how important it be . of course it be important for people to have good well - pay job , but it be the talent and expertise they bring — which I see in spade in Northern Ireland every time I go ; the enthusiasm , the talent , the training and the apprenticeship programme — that mean we can build the future we want to see . they will be very important for our defence , but the whole ecosystem the hon . Gentleman talk about be very important for our future . what support can the Government bring to ensure that people continue to flourish and thrive ? first , we want to work collaboratively across the nation in a way that be productive and useful . I chair the business and industry inter - ministerial group in the Department for Business and Trade . at our first meeting , the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague in Northern Ireland , Wales and Scotland be there , too . what we can do collectively that help all our nation be really important . secondly , the Government set the structure , through the industrial strategy , and a direction of travel that industry can understand . the hon . Gentleman will know that we be develop the industrial strategy . there be eight growth sector where we think there be the big capacity for growth . we be work on hone down what the sub - sector be within that . advanced manufacturing , defence and green energy be all key area that we have identify as opportunity for growth and Northern Ireland have such a role to play in that space . that architecture , which will provide the long - term stability over the next five to 10 year , will be really important and helpful . the third bit of architecture be our university , college , catapult , Innovate UK and all the other network that help we to come up with new idea and new business . I meet Catapult Network chief executive this morning . they tell I about — they be keen that I mention it in this debate , as I say I be come here — some of the innovative work go on through the catapult in Northern Ireland . they be work with Invest Northern Ireland on hydrogen , which will accelerate supply chain for the hydrogen economy . they be work with queen ' s University Belfast to ensure that Northern Ireland ' s manufacture business can connect into national capability and help address future challenge . there be a lot of good work go on there . the next bit of architecture be how we help all those business in Northern Ireland to export . I be in Saudi Arabia two week ago , alongside Invest Northern Ireland and Northern Ireland business , which be take their huge talent and , I hope , do some good deal . there be a business — I might get this wrong and have to tell Hansard to correct this — that make kit that wash sand . it have wash 99 % of the sand that need to be wash — I be go to stop try to go into detail ! — in Qatar . it be a very small business in Northern Ireland that be , basically , provide a service to Qatar that nobody else could do . that be quite extraordinary , but that be the talent we have come out of Northern Ireland and we want to work with Invest NI on that . we need to get the right architecture in place to ensure the future be bright . I think what the hon . Gentleman also want I to talk about be how we protect what we have . he make a very good case on Spirit and how it be not just the job , but the supply chain and all interaction . he use some very interesting statistic on the potential impact of closure . what I will say in this space be , first , that we all want the same thing . secondly , just to correct the record , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) have meet the trade union to talk about that . I be at Spirit on 19 December and talk about the future . I have talk to all interested party in this space . collectively as a government — the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my right hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) — we be try to do what we can . it be a complex situation , as we know , and there be layer of complexity in term of who do what . we be try to do what we can . government can only do what they can in try to bring people together , come up with solution and talk to those interested party , but I think we be push in the right direction . although I can not click my finger and have the answer that the hon . Gentleman want this evening , I can give he the commitment that we be do what we can . if he have suggestion as to further meeting we could hold and thing we could do , of course , I would be very happy to do that . I be have conversation regularly on Short Brothers and Spirit AeroSystems , as the hon . Gentleman would expect . I be talk to the aerospace industry , Boeing and all the interested party . I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I be happy that the meeting have take place . whenever I meet they — it would have be three or even four week ago — they inform I that the meeting have not take place . I be glad that it have , because that be well . when it come to move forward in Northern Ireland , thing only ever happen when we all work together . that be important . I also thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for what they have do in relation to Harland and Wolff . we appreciate that . I know it be complex and difficult , and that there be thing they could not say when we ask in the past and thing be happen behind the scene . could the Minister be involve in those contact with Spirit and Unite and the GMB union , again with the Secretary of State ? that contact be important . I say to the Minister that she should bring people with she . if we bring people with we , we always win the case . I be always happy to meet the trade union . I think I spend more time with trade union in government than I do in opposition . we be forever meet , usually in very happy circumstance where we be all try to push to the same end in term of build industry and create growth . I be therefore always happy to meet and to do that . of course , it be not just Ministers who be in conversation ; I should say that the official be also talk to all the interested party , just to see what can be do . but I will not deny that it be a challenge . the two - pronged approach of try to ensure we have the architecture to build our manufacturing and our industry in Northern Ireland , alongside try to see if we can find a solution when it come to Spirit , be the right thing to do . we should not ignore one or the other ; we need to try with both and that be what we will do . encourage new investment into Northern Ireland be also part of the picture . the Government ' s investment summit and the work through the Office for Investment and the Minister for Investment really focus on the strength of a region and an area — the strength of a nation in this case — and the wonderful manufacturing ecosystem that we should be able to build on and which should be a very attractive proposition to investor who want to come in and expand . I could talk more about some of the other example of good practice and exciting thing that be happen in Northern Ireland , but I do not want to keep the House long than be necessary . the hon . Member have make the case very well , and I agree with everything that he have say . I suppose the thrust of all the good thing — we do not deny they but welcome they because they be good thing — be to have the sale as one entity . on behalf of the worker , I especially ask the Minister to commit to look at what more can be do for the Spirit worker . they be skilled , they be experience and they be critical to Northern Ireland ' s manufacturing base . that be my request to the Minister : to sell it as one entity and keep the worker . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . he be now look at his phone . I do not whether the union be message he during the debate , but if so , it be very effective . of course I will do whatever be useful in this regard . commercial decision be be make ; we can not influence all of they , but we can do what we can , and we be try . we have a very skilled workforce that we do not want to lose , and I be happy to meet , work with and walk alongside our colleague who be work in Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . member for initiate the debate . it be always a joy to talk about what be happen in Northern Ireland , and even more of a joy to be there and see it . I look forward to do that again soon . question put and agree to . House adjourn .