Speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the hon . member for Witney ( Robert Courts ) inform I of his resignation as Chair of the Defence Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . nomination for the election of a successor be now open and will close at 12 noon on Tuesday 16 January . nomination form be available from the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Members of the conservative party may be candidate in this election . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place on Wednesday 17 January from 11 be to 2 . 30 pm in the Aye Lobby . briefing note with more information about the election will be make available in the Vote Office . Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Minister of State be ask — violence in the West Bank what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of recent increase in violence in the west bank . what assessment he have make of recent increase in violence in the west bank . whether official in his Department have have discussion with their counterpart in Israel on the recent escalation of violence in the West Bank . the Government have make it clear that settler violence and the targeting and , on occasion , kill of palestinian civilian be completely unacceptable . as call for an urgent ceasefire in Gaza and an endure peaceful resolution in the region continue , we must also remain opposed to the violence take place in the west bank . to that end , do the Minister share my view that settlement building in the west bank and across the Occupied Palestinian Territories be unacceptable and unlawful and must stop immediately ? yes . the hon . Lady will know that the position of the Government be and have be for many year that those settlement be illegal . I be pleased to be able to confirm that for she . the same question could be ask again : it be unlawful , but what be the Government go to do about it ? do the Minister think that one day we might actually see some prosecution in relation to those violation of international law ? on the point about settler violence , if that be what the hon . Gentleman be refer to , we believe that it be not good enough just to arrest those responsible . they need to be both prosecute and imprison . the problem be that there be key figure in the israeli Government who be stoke this violence , with the Finance Minister publicly declare that there be " 2 million Nazis " in the west bank . what representation be the Secretary of State make to israeli counterpart to demand a far more robust response to this violence ? I can tell the hon . Lady that the Prime Minister speak about this directly with Prime Minister Netanyahu on 5 December and he make clear that we welcome Israel ' s recent comment condemn instance of settler violence , but that Israel must take meaningful action to stop it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . another day when the Foreign Secretary be unaccountable , in the middle of a war that could still get even bad . West bank violence be rise , Hezbollah have attack israeli position and israeli airstrike have hit town in south Lebanon . a widening of this conflict be in no one ' s interest , and all party must show restraint . while he be absent from this place , what step be the Foreign Secretary take to prepare for further escalation and to deter all party from full - blow regional war ? first of all , I fully understand that the right hon . Gentleman wish to have close contact with Lord Cameron as the Foreign Secretary , but he will be aware that he be in almost continuous contact with the Foreign Secretary by text and WhatsApp — indeed , Mr Speaker , if he be in any close contact it would probably be a civil partnership . on the substantive point about the widening of the conflict , the right hon . Gentleman will know that , very early after 7 October , the Prime Minister move a british military asset to the eastern end of the Mediterranean , first to try to ensure that , if there be any arm be move , we would know about it , and secondly to have eye on what be happen . british diplomacy , along with that of our like - minded ally and friend , be devoted to ensure that the conflict do not widen . we come now to the SNP spokesperson . the UK be provide logistical and surveillance support to the state of Israel . have any evidence come to light that give concern about the commission of war crime in the west bank or in Gaza ? Britain be provide some overflight of Gaza to help we identify , and move forward the issue of recover , the hostage . that be exactly the right thing to do . to repeat the question , have any evidence come to light that give concern about the commission of war crime ? can the Minister assure we that any such evidence that come to light will be send over to the International Criminal Court in response to its call for evidence under article 86 , with which the UK be surely bind to co - operate ? the hon . Gentleman will know that it be not just the Government but many different organisation that be seek to identify what be happen on the ground , and the extent to which international humanitarian law be be abide with . any such evidence will undoubtedly be put before the relevant authority — the court that he mention , specifically — if such evidence be available . International Development White Paper what step his Department be take to implement the UK ' s commitment in the White Paper on international development , publish in November 2023 . the White Paper include 217 commitment to be deliver through to 2030 . I have ask official in the Foreign Office to work with colleague across Government to implement the commitment and determine the order of priority . I thank the Minister for that reply and for his leadership on the excellent White Paper , particularly because , in the run - up to its publication , he clearly listen to call for more target support and humanitarian relief for those who be leave behind on account of their religion or belief . the challenge now be to turn those innovative commitment into reality , which will require a revised approach to development programming . will he meet I and other at a roundtable to discuss that ? it be always a pleasure to meet my hon . friend , who have an office next to mine in the Foreign Office . may I thank she for her comment about the publication of the White Paper ? the way in which it have be receive around the world demonstrate renew energy and vigour . I hope that it show Britain ' s reinvigorated leadership on those important matter , and , of course , value for money for our taxpayer . the White Paper also talk about development diplomat . how many will be train and what will be the cost ? how many — development diplomat — they be in the White Paper . yes , the right hon . Lady be quite right : we be increase the number of development diplomat — I think she mention something about water , but I may have misheard . the point about the White Paper be that it set out very clearly the aim and aspiration that Britain have to drive forward the sustainable development goal and ensure that we increase climate finance at this critical time . she will be pleased to have see that and will note that we be now drive forward that agenda . British Indian Ocean Territory what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Mauritius on the negotiation on the sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . the Foreign Secretary have not yet have a chance to meet his mauritian counterpart . however , the Prime Minister meet the Mauritian Prime Minister at the G20 in September to assess the state of negotiation . they welcome the progress make and agree to meet again soon . I thank my hon . friend for that answer , but in my 18 year of loyal service as a Conservative Member of Parliament , I have never be more disappointed , alarmed and angry about the conduct of the Foreign Office . in this matter , it be negotiate in a neocolonialistic way with Mauritius — an entity that be over 2 , 000 km away from the British Indian Ocean Territory — without consult the indigenous people , the Chagossians , whom we expel in 1968 to make way for an american air force base . the time have come for we to respect the right of self - determination and ensure that the Chagossians be allow to return to the British Indian Ocean Territory , and for they to decide the future of those island , rather than hand they to the chinese client and puppet state of Mauritius , which would be highly counterintuitive to our AUKUS commitment . the UK have be work in close co - operation with the US since negotiation begin in November 2022 , and it support our approach . the UK , the US and Mauritius have all make clear that protect the base on Diego Garcia , include by prevent foreign malign influence , be a top priority . we will ensure that any agreement achieve that . it be in our national interest and that of our partner , and it be vital for regional and global security . the Government be prepare to disregard international law with their Rwanda Bill today . they seem to continue to want to disregard international law in the case of decision hand down by the International Court of Justice and other international body with regard to the Chagos island . if the UK Government will not live up to their international obligation and the finding of international body , how with any credibility can they ask other country to do the same ? we be work closely with the relevant government — with Mauritius , as I have say — to take forward those negotiation . they be be take forward in good faith , notwithstanding the need to protect our national , regional and global interest at the same time . Gaza : Civilian Deaths and humanitarian Situation what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the number of civilian death in Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the number of civilian death in Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the number of civilian death in Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the number of civilian death in Gaza . what recent discussion he have have with his counterpart in Israel on the situation in Gaza . what step he be take to support civilian in Gaza . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the humanitarian situation in Gaza . Britain have increase plan assistance to palestinian civilian to £ 60 million , and have deliver over 74 tonne of aid . the recent pause in fighting be a welcome opportunity to get hostage out and aid in . we know that more be need : more fuel , increase humanitarian access and assistance into Gaza , and compliance with international humanitarian law . do the Minister see the analysis recently publish in the respected israeli newspaper Haaretz that the proportion of civilian death in Gaza be significantly high than the average civilian death toll in all conflict around the world during the 20th century ? do that not give the lie to any claim that Israel be avoid civilian death , and as the death toll in Gaza approach 20 , 000 , be it not now time for the whole international community — include the UK — to support a ceasefire that protect civilian life ? the hon . Gentleman will know the importance that the Government and Opposition Front Benchers attach to save civilian life , and will know that Britain have make it absolutely clear to the authority in Israel that we expect they to abide by international humanitarian law and understand and accept the rule of war . he will equally know that the unprecedented figure he refer to follow on the back of an unprecedented attack by terrorist on 7 October , a pogrom in which more jewish people be murder than at any time since 1945 in the holocaust . I wholeheartedly welcome the fact that the UK have increase its humanitarian aid by £ 60 million since 7 October . can my right hon . friend outline how his Department be work to ensure that that funding be spend as effectively as possible , by which I mean reach those in the most urgent need ? I be sure we have all be greatly distress by the suffering of the innocent civilian in this conflict . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have 82 tonne of humanitarian supply in Cyprus ready to go , and 5 tonne of medical equipment ready to go . as soon as there be the possibility of get more aid and support into Gaza , we will be use those supply to do exactly that . in the past nine week , over 250 Palestinians — include 69 child — have be kill by the israeli security force in the west bank , and over the past year we have see a dangerous rise in the number of attack by violent , illegal israeli settler against Palestinians and their property . even the United States announce that it would impose a travel ban on violent extremist settler last week , but all the UK Government have be able to announce be that planning be go on . how much more bloodshed do we need to see before the Government stop plan and start act , and will the Minister take real action today against violent , illegal settler ? I make clear in my answer to Question 1 that the Government condemn without qualification the illegal attack by settler on Palestinians . the hon . Gentleman ask I specifically about visa ban ; while I can not give a commentary in this House , I can tell he that our plan in that respect be move forward . a stop - start approach be likely to prolong hostage captivity and increase the risk to hostage ' life . it also continue the relentless loss of civilian and innocent child . if the UN Security Council resolution return with a condemnation of Hamas , will the UK do the right thing this time and back an immediate humanitarian ceasefire ? as the hon . Lady will know , not least from the urgent question ask in the House yesterday by the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , neither the Government nor the opposition believe that a ceasefire be the right way to proceed . however , I can tell she that we be very heavily engaged in what be happen in these Security Council resolution , and the Security Council permanent member be at Rafah yesterday , look in detail at the situation on the ground . there have to be a ceasefire to protect civilian in Gaza . do the Minister agree with the US Secretary for Defence when he say that " protect palestinian civilian in Gaza be both a moral responsibility and a strategic imperative " , and that " if you drive they into the arm of the enemy , you replace a tactical victory with a strategic defeat " ? be the Government make those representation to the israeli Government ? of course , the position of the American Defence Secretary be exactly the position of the British Government , and that be why we say at all point that everyone must adhere international humanitarian law . the whole House be appal by the atrocity commit by Hamas , but also by the civilian suffering in Gaza . will my right hon . friend set out the step he be take to relieve civilian suffering , and also the step he be take against illegal settlement and the action of violent settler , because they be an obstacle to the two - state solution and to a lasting and just peace ? on the first part of my hon . friend ' s question , I can tell he that we have deliver 74 tonne of aid to el - Arish , which we be try to make sure get in . on specific relief , I can inform the House that 100 truck and 120 , 600 litre of fuel do get across the border into Rafah yesterday . it be nothing like enough , but there be some progress yesterday . Israel have detain huge number of Palestinians in Gaza . the International Committee of the Red Cross have receive report of 3 , 000 miss between 7 October and 29 November , and many also in the west bank . we have see the image of those man strip on the beach , and Haaretz have release an article show that 10 % to 15 % of they be connect to Hamas , which mean that nearly 90 % be not . be this government make representation to the israeli Government about their treatment of palestinian detainee ? the situation the hon . member describe be not clear in the fog of war , but I can tell she that we emphasise to everyone the importance of abide by international humanitarian law and of course the Geneva convention , to which she be refer . every life lose , whether palestinian or israeli , be a tragedy , and so often in conflict and war it be the child who suffer the most . what further discussion have my right hon . Friend have with the United States and other partner about have new humanitarian pause ? finally , I be supportive of the Government , but may I ask he whether he feel that the israeli response be proportionate ? we be argue in every way we possibly can that there need to be humanitarian pause , and that they need to be five day long so that we can get relief and humanitarian supply into Gaza . on my right hon . friend ' s final point about proportionate force , as I say early during these question , that be why we emphasise continuously the importance of abide by the rule of war . I call the shadow Minister . in Gaza , almost 80 % of the population have be force from their home with nowhere safe to go . Sewage be flow in the street , with enormous risk to health , while hospital and ambulance continue to be hit . half the population be starve . the most recent report be of over 18 , 000 Palestinians kill , include utterly appalling number of child . I recognise the effort of Ministers , but it be barely even slow down the tide of death when the humanitarian crisis simply need to end . what be the Minister ' s strategy to do that ? at all point , Britain be try to use its brilliant international network , work not only with the other United Nations Security Council member , but through our intense diplomatic network around the middle east . on try to see a political track when it become available , Britain , with its ally , be do everything possible to achieve that . on the suffering that the hon . Lady describe — everyone in the House will agree with her analysis of that — the Foreign Secretary recently announce an additional £ 30 million of support . we be look at how that can be use specifically to assist with medical issue , particularly for child . british Overseas Territories : climate change Adaptation what step his Department be take to support the overseas territory with climate change adaptation . the fcdo be work in partnership with the territory to develop climate security assessment through the conflict , stability and security fund . our blue planet programme have provide over £ 35 million since 2016 to enhance marine protection and build climate change resilience . I be reassure that the UK be invest heavily in climate change adaptation . do my hon . friend agree that the good way of future - proofing that be for the fcdo to appoint a dedicated Minister for all the overseas territory and to ensure that the UK never relinquish sovereignty for any of they ? I have recently be appoint as the FCDO Minister responsible for the overseas territory . furthermore , the Prime Minister have make it clear that every Department should have a Minister whose portfolio cover responsibility to the ot . the UK have no doubt about its sovereignty over the overseas territory . any decision to end british sovereignty should be on the basis of a clear constitutionally express wish of the territory ' s people . I call the shadow Minister . as you know , Mr Speaker , our global british family in the UK overseas territory contain 94 % of all the unique specie that the UK be responsible for . these huge marine area throughout the world ' s ocean be hugely vulnerable to climate change , yet be negligible contributor to it . it have be great to see more ot sign up to the blue belt initiative , work with group such as Great British Oceans and attend the recent cop . what be the Minister do to encourage more overseas territory to join the blue belt and to assist overseas territory to get access to strategic international funding for conservation , adaptation and resilience ? it be an important question . our need to tackle climate change extend widely to the ot . we have do significant work on the blue belt programme , and we have engage a large number of ot at COP28 this year so that we can help push forward their work and give great access to this funding . it be vitally important . Pakistan whether he have have recent discussion with his counterpart in Pakistan on the Maira Shahbaz case . we strongly condemn force marriage and the force conversion of woman and girl , include in Pakistan . we regularly raise our concern , include individual case , at a senior level with the pakistani authority , and we fund project in Pakistan to address the underlie cause . at the age of 14 , Maira Shahbaz be abduct , force into a marriage and rape . she escape and have be sit in one room with her entire family , terrify . she be now 18 . I have lose track of the number of meeting I have have with successive Home Secretaries and the letter I have write . nothing have happen to get this girl out , yet at the same time 100 , 000 fit young man be pour across the channel in search of a well job . for God ' s sake , can we not show some christian compassion ? what more can the Foreign Office do in Pakistan to try to stop these force conversion and force marriage ? we continue to press these individual case with the Pakistani Government . the former Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( James Cleverly ) raise human right , include the persecution of minority , with caretaker Prime Minister Kakar on 25 September . Lord Ahmad raise the need to protect minority community with caretaker Foreign Minister Jilani on 13 September and again in a letter on 5 October . we continue to raise in Islamabad the issue of force marriage and conversion with the pakistani authority . this be not only about the case of Maira Shahbaz , but about the case of many other young christian girl , young hindu girl and young Sikh girl in Pakistan be kidnap from an early age . it be clear that there be an epidemic in Pakistan of the kidnapping and abuse of young girl . what be be do with Pakistan to change the attitude and the law of the land ? as well as make representation at a senior level , we fund programme in Pakistan work to address child and force marriage and gender - base violence , discrimination and intolerance , especially against minority , in an effort to achieve cultural change that will attend to this matter . of course , that be slow and painful work , but our team in Islamabad be fully focus on it . Israel and International Law what recent discussion he have have with his israeli counterpart on Israel ' s obligation under international law . Israel have the right to defend itself against terror , restore its security and bring the hostage home , but it must abide by international law and take all possible measure to protect civilian . I do not disagree with anything that the Minister have just say , but the question be : what do Israel have to abide by international law actually look like ? we know that it have act with impunity in the west bank with illegal settlement , and historically with the building of the wall and so on . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) say , the sheer scale of casualty of innocent civilian in Gaza raise serious question . what do it actually mean when we say that Israel have to abide by international law ? it mean precisely what it say . the fact that Israel be a democracy and the fact that all around the world people will be look carefully at how thing be be conduct in the region should give the hon . Lady hope that international humanitarian law count and will be support . I call the shadow Minister . recently the International Criminal Court prosecutor , Karim Khan KC , visit Israel and the west bank . in relation to Gaza , he state : " a law be not some cosmetic adornment that can be disregard . it ' s a fundamental requirement that must be comply with . " I assume the Minister will agree with that . if that be the case , will he ensure that Britain co - operate fully with the prosecutor in his work ? as a strong supporter of the International Criminal Court , Britain will always co - operate . we strongly support the ICC . the hon . Gentleman will know that , as a state party to the Geneva convention , the israeli Government be oblige to take action against israeli national accuse of grave breach of international humanitarian law , be there to be any , so that would not be a matter for the ICC . Iran what step he be take to help tackle destabilising activity by Iran in the middle east . Iran bear responsibility for group it have long support . we have step up our response to recent attack . HMS Diamond will bolster our maritime presence in the region and a new Iran sanction regime will soon be in place , give we great power to designate iranian activity . the regime in Tehran have be blatant , public and even unapologetic about its backing , funding and arming of Hamas — terrorist who we now know be not just murder but rapist . in the light of that , be it not time to snap back the full range of sanction on Iran , to sanction a wide number of official in Iran and to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? our new Iran sanction regime will be lay imminently , give we new and enhanced power to counter Iran ' s hostile activity in the UK and around the world , and its oppressive practice at home . we have already sanction more than 350 iranian individual and entity , include the irgc in its entirety . I agree with the comment make by the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) , but should we not also be wonder about what Iran be do within its own border ? four hundred and nineteen people be execute in Iran between January and July , and 127 have be execute since 7 October . Iran have be use what be happen in Israel as a cover for much fast execution , include those of 17 - year - old Hamidreza Azari — a child — and Milad Zohrevand , who be the eighth " Woman , Life , Freedom " protester to have be execute by this horrible regime . be it not time that we really take the case to Iran about its own human right record ? the hon . Member make a very important point . we call out the brutal repression of the protest that have take place , and we continue to hold Iran to account for its human right record , include the repression of woman , girl and child , as he highlight . we will , as I say , bring to bear a new sanction regime to assist in those effort . Sri Lanka whether his Department be take diplomatic step to help ensure that perpetrator of alleged human right violation against the Tamil community in Sri Lanka be hold to account . the UK be work closely with international partner on this long - stand priority , include at the UN Human Rights Council , where the UK lead resolution 51 / 1 on Sri Lanka . many prominent Sri Lankans be credibly accuse of war crime against the Tamil minority , particularly towards the end of the 30 - year civil war in Sri Lanka . but all these year on , they be still at large , unlike the nearly 18 , 000 tamil who go missing and be still unaccounted for . in response to the SNP spokesperson , my hon . friend the Member for Stirling ( Alyn Smith ) , we be tell early that evidence of war crime would be take seriously . how can the people of Palestine have any faith in that if the Tamil people of Sri Lanka have have the evidence sit there for all these year and the Government be do nothing , other than wring their hand ? we all take these issue very seriously . I be in Sri Lanka just a few week ago , and I be able to raise the need for progress on human right , on reconciliation and , indeed , on accountability with the President of Sri Lanka during my visit . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Tamils , may I ask my right hon . friend the Minister to assure the House that the fcdo be actively consider the evidence for sanction those credibly accuse of war crime who be active participant in Sri Lankan high society , and that she will pass that evidence on to the United Nations Human Rights Council , in line with resolution 30 / 1 ? I commend my hon . friend for his active and championing work as chair of the APPG . he be right , and we absolutely recognise the concern of the Sri Lankan public , and indeed victim group , about the creation of a credible domestic accountability process . we continue to urge the Sri Lankan Government to address those concern . as I say , I raise they when I be there . I be also able to discuss human right and justice issue with member of civil society , Tamil representative and the governor of the Northern Province when I visit Jaffna . I call the shadow Minister . Sri Lanka be a key member of the Commonwealth family and occupy a strategically vital position geographically . warm relation be vital , but for far too long , those accuse of brutal crime in the past , include against the Tamil minority , have escape justice . will the Minister outline what step she be take to support the Tamils ' call for justice , include , if necessary , by take action against exist and former Sri Lankan Ministers ? will she outline the support for Sri Lankan democracy and human right ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we welcome the recent write update on Sri Lanka by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and , in September , the UK Government issue statement that emphasise the importance of inclusive transitional justice and effective governance reform in order to highlight the arbitrary use of law to suppress dissent . as I say , we lead UNHRC resolution 51 / 1 on Sri Lanka , provide the mandate for the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to report on Sri Lanka , and we continue to work with it . Israel and Palestine what recent diplomatic step he have take to help secure peace in Israel and Palestine . what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of formally recognise the state of Palestine . what step his Department be take with international partner to support a two - state solution in Israel and Palestine . whether he have make an assessment of the effectiveness of Israel ' s campaign against Hamas . there must be a political solution to the israeli - palestinian conflict — a two - state solution that provide justice and security for both Israelis and Palestinians . the aerial bombardment by Israel of one of the most densely populate region in the world in Gaza have be devastating . recent statistic report in Israel show that 61 % of death in Gaza have be civilian . when the Prime Minister speak to the israeli Prime Minister last week , do he urge he to stop besiege and blockade Gaza , to comply with international law , which must mean be proportionate , and to protect innocent life ? the hon . member be right . at the COP , the Prime Minister be able to have meeting with Qatar , Egypt and Jordan , as well as with Israel , and he reiterate the point that he have make publicly before , which be that Israel have the right to self - defence , but it must operate within international humanitarian law . the Minister talk about the need for a two - state solution , and we will not find much disagreement on that , but how can he advocate a two - state solution when the Government refuse to recognise the state of Palestine ? be he confident that there will be much left of Palestine after Israel ' s continue bombardment ? that be why we need a ceasefire right now . the Government strongly support the two - state solution . of course , before these terrible event on 7 October , there be new partnership with Israel develop across the middle east : one think in particular of the Emirates and Bahrain . when there be a break in the cloud and an opportunity for a political track to get go , we will do everything we can to build on the important point that the hon . Member underline . notwithstanding the attempt genocide of 7 October and the cynical use of palestinian civilian as human shield , the single good solution for peace in the region be a two - state solution . what step be the Government take to facilitate that ? do my right hon . friend agree that the kidnapper , murderer and rapist of Hamas can not be involve in those negotiation ? yes . we certainly agree with the United States that Gaza should be under palestinian control in due course and that there be no place for Hamas in all of that . in respect of my hon . friend ' s point about how we advance towards a two - state solution , he will know that the Foreign Secretary have be both in Tel Aviv and on the west bank in Ramallah , and we be look to see what Britain can do to help build the capacity of the palestinian state in the future , and to bolster it . the Minister will have access to intelligence — our and that of our ally — that he may not be in a position to share with the House . will he therefore share his understanding of the effectiveness of Israel ' s campaign to weaken and eliminate Hamas and return the hostage , give the appalling and unacceptable loss of innocent palestinian life — thousand and thousand of child have be maim and kill — give the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza , give that more than 100 israeli hostage remain in captivity there , and give that Hamas continue to fire rocket into Israel every day ? we be do everything we can to help the hostage to whom she refer and to ensure that they come home . we do that through negotiation , not least in Qatar , and through the overflight , which I refer to early . the hon . Lady may rest assure that the Government take precisely the same view as she on what should be achieve . Philippines whether he have have discussion with his counterpart in the Philippines on the case of Leila De Lima . we welcome the release of Leila De Lima on bail , which be a positive step for human right and the rule of law . the UK ' s ambassador have repeatedly raise this case with the Philippines Government , and visit she during her detention . I agree that it be good news that Senator De Lima have be release on bail after nearly seven year of detention . what representation be the Government make to their counterpart in the Philippines , via the ambassador , about resolve all the other charge against she , which be believe to stem from her vocal opposition to thousand of extrajudicial killing in connection with former President Duterte ' s war on drug , and about a meaningful investigation into those killing ? the UK Government regularly engage with the Government of the Philippines on the full range of our human right concern . we welcome the 2020 UN Human Rights Council resolution , which propose technical co - operation on human right between the Government of the Philippines and the United Nations . the resolution result in a three - year UN joint programme , which commence in 2021 , to which the UK have contribute £ 400 , 000 . we will continue to work alongside they . Zimbabwe whether he have have recent discussion with his Commonwealth counterpart on the propose readmittance of Zimbabwe to the Commonwealth . I regularly discuss a broad range of issue , include Zimbabwe , with Commonwealth counterpart , most recently on Sunday in Dubai when I meet the Commonwealth secretary - general , Baroness Scotland . the decision on re - entry be for all member , base on the membership requirement and the value and principle set out in the Commonwealth charter . give the recent enlargement of the Commonwealth , the matter that the Minister refer to be important . More than 100 , 000 zimbabwean live in the UK , many in south Wales , and thousand work all year round in our NHS . what engagement have the Minister have with the Zimbabwean diaspora to understand the diversity of perspective and to support their view about Commonwealth membership and other challenge and issue that they face ? the hon . Lady be right that Zimbabwe have a productive and vibrant diaspora in the United Kingdom , and we hear their view many time . Britain warn that the election need to be violence - free and fair , and it be certainly violence - free . we be wait for the full report of the observer before make a judgment on further event . release of Hostages what step he be take to help secure the release of hostage hold by Hamas . we be work with international and regional partner to secure the release of hostage , include british national . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . the hostage who have be release report sexual and physical violence commit against they while in captivity . the Israeli Health Ministry report that hostage be drug to make they look happy . do my right hon . friend agree that Hamas be treat hostage in an inhumane fashion , the international Red Cross should be give the opportunity to visit they all , and we should ensure that they be return home as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be quite right about the right of the international Red Cross . we be involve in intensive diplomatic effort to secure the release of the hostage . it be continually raise by the Prime Minister , who meet family of british people take hostage by Hamas and of other hostage during his trip to Israel . my hon . friend may rest assure that while I can not give a running commentary on these matter , we be do everything we can to secure their release . I wholeheartedly support the call for the immediate and unconditional release of all the remain hostage hold by Hamas and other group . however , far to the Minister ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , I refer he to UN resolution 1860 of 2009 , when the UK support a ceasefire in Gaza and a permanent ceasefire follow a few day later . the hon . Lady will be well aware of the view of the Government and , indeed , of the Opposition Front Bench , on the possibility of a ceasefire at this time , which we simply do not think exist . on the early event that she refer to , the situation then be very different from the one that pertain today . on the issue of hostage taking , the british - russian dual national Vladimir Kara - Murza be jail and poison by the Putin regime for criticise the war in Ukraine . he be a de facto hostage of the regime . I have just meet his mother , who be in Parliament today . will the Minister arrange for I to meet the Foreign Secretary with his relative to hear about the condition and torture he have be subject to ? I be advise that minister have meet the family , but I will see what I can do to facilitate a meeting , as my right hon . friend request . small number of hostage have be release in the past as a result of pause in the response by the israeli authority . will the Minister undertake to ensure that there be wide understanding , both here and internationally , that those pause be well activate whenever Hamas do not take advantage of they and again embe themselves in hospital and civilian population ? the hon . Gentleman be right to emphasise the importance of humanitarian pause , and preferably humanitarian pause that be several day long . we be do everything we can to try to ensure that the case for humanitarian pause , and the ability that would result of get aid , support and supply into Gaza , be achieve . NATO Support for Ukraine what discussion his Department have have with NATO ally on support for Ukraine during winter 2023 - 24 the UK regularly discuss support for Ukraine with NATO ally and partner , include at the recent NATO Foreign Ministers meeting and the NATO - Ukraine Council , which the Foreign Secretary attend alongside ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba . together , we approve an ambitious programme , include on energy security and interoperability . ally remain steadfast in their commitment to support Ukraine through the winter and for as long as it take . as a member of the armed force parliamentary scheme , I recently visit NATO ' s Allied Rapid Reaction Corps headquarters in Gloucester , so I welcome that yesterday the Defence Secretary announce the UK - lead Ukraine maritime capability coalition to give our ally the power to rule the wave . what step be the UK take to help Ukraine to rebuild its armed force and provide humanitarian assistance to its citizen ? my hon . friend make a very good point . the maritime domain be hugely important . we will continue to work with NATO and Ukraine , include through NATO ' s € 500 million comprehensive assistance package , to which we have contribute £ 82 million . in November , the Foreign Secretary attend the first meeting of the NATO - Ukraine Council at Foreign Minister level . he emphasise the need to sustain our support to Ukraine for as long as it take . notwithstanding President Zelensky ' s meeting in the White House today and the Foreign Secretary ' s visit to Capitol Hill in recent day , what be the Government do to ensure that US support for Ukraine , which be the anchor of all european and broad international support , remain steadfast despite the ongoing political situation in the US ? we be lead by example . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Government be focus on our vital priority , notably : support Ukraine , stand with Israel , and provide aid to palestinian civilian . the Foreign Secretary and I meet global leader at COP28 , who welcome the UK ' s leadership at this critical time . we discuss our newly launch international development White Paper , which seek to get the sustainable development goal back on track at this halfway stage , when they be so far off . as mention before , I will deputise for the Foreign Secretary in this House and make regular statement to keep member update . what step be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office take to persuade and encourage our NATO ally to continue and enhance not just their military but civil support for Ukraine in its brave campaign against Putin ' s evil invasion ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to put it in those term . the Foreign Secretary meet the ukrainian Foreign Minister Kuleba at the NATO - Ukraine Council . my hon . friend will know that nearly £ 10 billion in military , humanitarian and economic support have be provide by Britain since February 2022 , and we be the first country to provide lethal aid . we be the big contributor to the armed force in Ukraine of any single nation . I call the shadow Secretary of State . an aggressive threat to a small neighbour , an attack on recognise international border , an illegitimate referendum stoke historical grievance — the Putin playbook be be copy in Caracas by Maduro . we must stand up to bully and tyrant with imperial ambition . as we maintain our steadfast commitment to Ukraine , can the Minister reaffirm the UK ' s unwavere support for Guyana ' s sovereignty ? yes , I can . yesterday I attend a meeting convene by the Secretary - General of the Commonwealth , and it put out a statement last night which I very much hope will reassure the right hon . Gentleman . what progress have my hon . Friend make on the granting of full environmental protection to the water around the South Sandwich Islands , as well as additional protection and improve management around South Georgia ? the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands marine protect area provide comprehensive protection against the entire maritime zone . it have be rate one of the most sustainable in the world . the Government be currently undertake their second five - year review , and a report be expect early next year . Alexei Navalny have go miss from his penal colony , and have not be hear of for nearly a week . will the Minister join international counterpart in make urgent representation to try to find out where he be , and to ensure his personal safety ? we condemn this outrageous detention , and we will continue to make representation in Moscow and elsewhere for consular access and Mr Navalny ' s release . " world malaria report 2023 " show that the number of malaria case and death remain above pre - pandemic level . what more can the Government do to ensure that we recover lose ground , and also drive towards the total eradication of this awful disease ? my hon . friend be right to ask that question . british scientific expertise have deliver two new malaria vaccine , and as a result of our replenishment of the Global Fund we be work to ensure that 86 million mosquito net be deliver , provide 450 , 000 seasonal malaria chemoprevention treatment . the Minister for Africa have rightly highlight the involvement of the Rapid Support Forces in atrocity in Darfur , and many member have flag the link between external state and the RSF . when the Minister be in Dubai for COP28 , do he raise the issue of external support for the RSF with those deem likely to be responsible ? I raise these issue not only at the COP but whenever I have the opportunity to do so , not least in discussion with Hamdok , the last Prime Minister of Sudan . while we welcome the call from last Saturday ' s Intergovernmental Authority on Development summit for an immediate cessation of hostility , we remain acutely concerned by the event that be take place , many of which bear the hallmark of ethnic cleansing . the threat to Guyana ' s territorial integrity have already be highlight . can the Minister reassure I that we be take step with our ally in the region to deter any use of force by the Maduro dictatorship ? Venezuela ' s action with regard to Essequibo in Guyana be completely unacceptable . the border be settle in 1899 , and we be work with our regional partner , such as Brazil , and with international body include the United Nations Security Council , the Commonwealth — as have already be mention — and the Organisation of American States to de - escalate tension . the horrifying death toll in Gaza include more than 100 aid worker and some 70 journalist . the vast majority of medium casualty have be palestinian journalist who go on work in the face of airstrike and the deteriorate humanitarian situation as a result of the lack of information cause by the denial of access to international medium . the National Union of Journalists warn of systemic targeting of journalist in Palestine , a further breach of international law . how will the Minister impress on the israeli Government these specific obligation ? as I say early , we do stress the importance of abide by the rule of war . I pay tribute to the brave humanitarian worker who put themselves in harm ' s way , unarmed , to help their fellow citizen . what precedent do the current negotiation between London and Port Louis on the future of the British Indian Ocean territory have in relation to the sovereignty of other uninhabited overseas territory , and , indeed the british sovereign base area in Cyprus ? as raise early in substantive question , we continue to have our negotiation on the British Indian Ocean Territories , which we be take forward in good faith . it be not just citizen of the United Kingdom but the Government of Cyprus who be be deny information as to what the US military may be fly from RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus to Israel . be that not something that they should know about , give the risk , and be it not something that we should know about , give the complicity ? when it come to Cyprus we have be work closely with our ally attend to the need for security , which may pertain to the release of hostage , so I think this be entirely a good thing . I be a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Japan , and we have recently host more than 60 company in Parliament , for which we thank the Minister for Investment and Blick Rothenburg . with increase securitisation in international politic , be it not more important than ever to big up UK - Japan commercial opportunity ? as the Japanese say : ganbatte ne ! the UK - Japan bilateral relationship have never be strong . the Hiroshima accord that the Prime Minister agree with Prime Minister Kishida on 19 May cement and build on a period of sustained growth and deepening of our enhance global strategic partnership . as many of we go home tonight and kiss our child , parent in Gaza will be search for body part to recognise their child and bury they . family break ; future steal . be the Minister comfortable with over 18 , 000 innocent palestinian civilian be kill , many of they child ? when will he do the right thing and call for a ceasefire ? the hon . Lady reflect the pain and agony that those parent feel with great eloquence , and it be feel across the House , but the issue be how we address the cause of what happen on 7 October and the fact that a pogrom be impose by Hamas , kill so very many jewish people . we have to move towards a moment where the political sky clear and there be an opportunity for a new political initiative . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . do my hon . friend recognise the recent joint statement from Armenia and Azerbaijan as a historic milestone towards the normalisation of relation ? can he tell we what this Government be do towards bring about a last peace treaty ? we be greatly encourage by the joint statement from Azerbaijan and Armenia confirm their intention to normalise relation . as I make clear to both country during my recent visit , we fully support their effort to achieve a historic and last peace . in answer to question 9 , the Minister seem to say that the Government be plan to completely proscribe the irgc . could he confirm that ? if that be the case , it would be welcome across the House . to be clear , I say that we would be introduce a new sanction regime . my constituent Amani Ahmed arrive here from Gaza for her phd just day before the outbreak of the war and be now desperately try to bring her husband and three child to the UK . UK Visas and Immigration advise travel to the near visa application centre but that be impossible as they be unable to leave Gaza . can the Minister urgently intervene to ensure that Amani ' s family be able to join she safely in the UK ? the hon . Lady will know that there be a specific track to pursue on this , and if she have not already be in touch with the crisis centre at the Foreign Office , that be what she should do immediately . last week I be contact by Kennington Bethlehem Link , a voluntary group dedicate to work with Israelis and Palestinians . it raise the case of Anas Abu Srour , who be arrest by the israeli army . this week it be announce that he have be detain for six month in administrative detention , and the reason for his arrest be still unclear . a petition of support have be sign by over 6 , 000 people in nine day , so will the Minister please ask the Foreign Secretary to work urgently with his israeli counterpart so that we can find out why he be imprison ? if the hon . Lady will make available to I the full detail of that case — assume that she have not already tell the Foreign Office — I will look into it for she and ensure she get an answer . that great world - beat british charity , the HALO Trust , have just announce the destruction of its 2 millionth landmine . will the Minister join I in congratulate the trust , and also pledge further funding , which will be vital and necessary if it be to be able to deal with the outcome of Ukraine ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to pay tribute to the HALO Trust . before I return to Government I be an ambassador for the trust , so I speak with some pride in this matter . if he look carefully at the International Development White Paper , which draw strength from all across the House in its commitment and identify important aspect , he will see that HALO be mention there . it be good to see you back in your place , Mr Speaker . be the Department monitor the case of Raffaele Mincione , the british citizen who be currently be take through the Vatican state court , and be it make any representation to the Vatican court about his case ? will official agree to meet I to discuss the case ? I can certainly organise for someone to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss that but , as he will know , arrangement with the Vatican be substantially change in the year 1534 , in the reign of King Henry VIII . as far as I know , there have be no change since then to reverse that . India ' s supreme court have uphold the Indian Government ' s decision to revoke article 370 of the constitution , which grant special status to Jammu and Kashmir . what assessment have the Minister make of the situation , as many Kashmiri constituent be quite worried ? we take note of the supreme court decision , and we continue to discuss with both party the need both to resolve the continue situation and to have constructive dialogue with the Kashmiris involve . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . with crucial talk at COP28 lock in disagreement , we be hear report that the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , be on his way back to the UK . it be say that he " will continue to be the lead UK minister for the negotiation with any final decision agree with he . " I do not see how that can quite be the case when he be on an aeroplane . we can only assume that he have be call back because of tonight ' s Rwanda vote , and that save the Prime Minister ' s skin be somehow see as more important than try to save the planet . Mr Speaker , can we bring the Minister to the House to explain why he have leave the COP talk and what that mean for our negotiation ? far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . Government , as the hon . Lady know , be seamless . while the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero be anxious to support the Government on the important legislation tonight , my noble Friend Lord Benyon , who be one of the UK ' s great expert on climate change , be at the COP in Dubai today to ensure that a senior Minister be represent Britain in those vital negotiation . right . let we move on . Bills present Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dame Maria Miller , support by Mr Ian Liddell - Grainger , Chris Elmore , Steve Brine , Julie Elliott , Harriett Baldwin , Bob Blackman , Layla Moran , Taiwo Owatemi and Sir James Duddridge , present a Bill to make provision about the status of , and privilege and immunity in connection with , the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 140 ) . offence against the Person Act 1861 ( Sentencing Guidelines ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dame Maria Miller present a Bill to require the Sentencing Council to issue sentence guideline in respect of section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 141 ) . Public Transport ( Rural Areas ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Dyke present a Bill to set minimum service level for the provision of public transport in rural area , include for access to site of employment and education ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 51 ) . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : First Report of the Home Affairs Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , Channel crossing , migration and asylum , HC 199 , and the Government response , HC 706 ; oral evidence take before the Home Affairs Committee on 29 November 2023 , on work of the Home Office , HC 356 ; oral evidence take before the Home Affairs Committee on 15 November 2023 , on work of the Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration , HC 126 ; oral evidence take before the Home Affairs Committee on 8 June 2022 , on Migration and asylum , Session 2022 - 23 , HC 197 . ] the reason amendment in the name of the Leader of the opposition have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before I speak to the Bill , let I say that the House may well be aware that , tragically , there have be a death on the Bibby Stockholm barge . I be sure that the thought of the whole House , like mine , be with those affect . the House will understand that at this stage I be uncomfortable go into any more detail , but we will of course investigate fully . this government be stop the boat . arrival be down by a third this year , as illegal entry be on the rise elsewhere in Europe . indeed , small boat arrival be up by 80 % in the Mediterranean , but they be down by a third across the channel . the large ever small boat deal with France , tackle the supply of boat engine and part , the arrest and conviction of people smuggler , and a 70 % increase in raid on illegal working be have an impact — a positive one . we have sign return and co - operation agreement with France , Bulgaria , Turkey , Italy , Georgia and Ethiopia . fifty hotel be be return to their local community , and the initial asylum backlog , which stand at 92 , 000 , be now under 20 , 000 . we have send back 22 , 000 illegal migrant , and the UK ' s arrangement with Albania prove that deterrent work . rise — I will not give way yet , as I have just start . last year , a third of all those arrive in small boat to the coast of this country be albanian . this year , we have return 5 , 000 Albanians , and arrival from Albania be down by 90 % . but in recent year , some of the Government ' s effort to tackle illegal migration and deport foreign national offender have be frustrate by a seemingly endless cycle of legal challenge and ruling from domestic and foreign court . rise — I will give way in a moment . of course , this Government respect court judgment , even when we disagree with they , but Parliament and the british people want an end to illegal immigration and they support the Rwanda plan . the Home Secretary point to deterrence . he have often use the australian model of offshore detention centre as a gold standard . what be his comment , then , on the fact that Australia have recently shut down its offshore centre because of the high financial and human cost ? the hon . Lady raise the case of Australia . it have 55 , 000 illegal migration by boat and that have trend pretty much down to zero — deterrence work . I be sure that my right hon . friend will agree that the British be world champion at queue . we do not like queue jumper , which be why illegal immigration grate with we . will he confirm that the Government will take all step to ensure that we remain within international law , not just now but go forward ? in that case , I will certainly be support the Bill tonight . do he also agree that some colleague in this place need to be careful what they wish for ? I be confident , and indeed the conversation I have have with the Government ' s legal adviser reinforce my belief , that the action we be take , while novel and very much push at the edge of the envelope , be within the framework of international law . that be important because the UK be a country that demonstrate to the whole world the importance of international law . we champion that on the world stage and it be important that we demonstrate it . rise — I be go to make further progress . judge of course play an important role , but they be not policymaker and they should not be policymaker . when the court find a particular formulation of policy unlawful , it be the job of politician to listen to their view , respect their view and find a solution . rise — I will make further progress . thank to the effort on the part of the UK Government and the Government of Rwanda , that be exactly what we have do in response to the verdict from the Supreme Court . the new treaty that I sign last week with Rwanda and the Bill that accompany it be game change . the principle of relocate people to a safe country , to have their asylum claim process there , be entirely consistent with the term of the refugee convention . both the High Court and the Court of Appeal unanimously confirm that point . my right hon . friend be an excellent Foreign Secretary , so he will know the extraordinary tension that exist between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda . the Democratic Republic of the Congo accuse Rwanda of sponsor the M23 terrorist organisation , which be violate congolese woman and kill congolese soldier . this week , the congolese President name the rwandan President as a Hitler - like figure . what be my right hon . friend ' s response to the concern of our congolese friend in that regard ? in my former role , I have extensive conversation with the government of both the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda . we do not agree with that assessment of the Government of Rwanda . more importantly , other international organisation also rely heavily on Rwanda , include the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the European Union . they would not do that if they believe that Rwanda be an unsafe country . rise — I intend to make further progress — this be Second Reading and there will be plenty of opportunity for colleague to speak — but I give way to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . just yesterday , I receive correspondence state : " EU Council Directive 2005 / 85 / EC be catch by article 2 ( 1 ) of the Protocol , therefore can be rely upon in NI ( but not GB ) . " it add that article 7 of the directive " confer the right to remain in the territory " while a claim be be process , which " create additional ' right ' in NI " that do not apply in GB and " expressly frustrate the core intent of the Rwanda Bill from apply in NI " . have the Home Secretary have the opportunity to look at that ? the point that the hon . Gentleman make about differential treatment in different part of the United Kingdom be one that we be conscious of . as the Bill progress , he and other will have the opportunity to raise concern about specific detail . we will , of course , listen to his concern and those of other . when pass , the Bill will address the practical implication . at the moment , the challenge of the number of refugee be not as significant in Northern Ireland as in other part of the UK , but , as the hon . Gentleman have hear I say before , we be always conscious to make sure that all part of the UK be , and feel that they be , in the thinking of the Government as we move forward . rise — I will make further progress . as I say , the principle of relocate people to a safe country to have their asylum claim process be entirely consistent with the term of the refugee convention . the High Court and the Court of Appeal unanimously confirm that , and the Supreme Court do not dispute those finding in own finding three week ago . do my right hon . friend agree that it be clear in international law and in relation to the question of the rule of law that in this country , with our unwritten constitution , a clear and unambiguous use of word , clearly establish the intention of Parliament in the enactment of a law , take precedence over international law , in accordance with the judgment of Lord Hoffmann , as well as judgment and statement by Lord Judge , Lord denning and other very distinguished jurist , include in paragraph 144 of the judgment make last month ? my hon . friend make an important point . he be right that when the wording of a Bill be clear and unambiguous — where there be a deeming clause — that be the express will of Parliament , that Parliament be sovereign , and that that thinking must be adhere to through the legal process . rise — I be go to make some progress . a few week ago , the Supreme Court uphold the judgment of the Court of Appeal , mean that we can not yet lawfully remove people to Rwanda . that be because of concern that it express that relocate individual might be refoule . I be sure the House know that that mean that those individual might be re - deported to a third country . the Government disagree with that verdict , but , as I have say , we respect the verdict of their lordship . it be important to understand that the Supreme Court ' s judgment be base on the fact as they exist 18 month ago and that the Court say the problem could be remedie . as I tell the House last week , we have work on and find that very remedy . our asylum partnership with Rwanda set out , in a legally bind international treaty , the obligation of both the UK and Rwanda within international law . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . as he say , international law and domestic law be both important , but they be different . the Bill seek to give this House the power to deem Rwanda a safe country . can he confirm for I that what it do not seek to do be suggest that this country , or this House , have the power to deem itself in compliance with international law ? my worry stem from clause1 ( 5 ) of the Bill , which , of course , reflect the Government ' s intention to deem Rwanda a safe country , but then go on to describe the safe country as one " to which person may be remove … in compliance with all of the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law " . will he confirm that it be not the Government ' s intention to suggest that it fall to any country to deem itself in compliance with international law — he do not need I to explain what the consequence of that might be elsewhere in the world — and that he will look again at the language and whether it need to be change to clarify that point ? I can reassure my right hon . and learn Friend that that be absolutely not the intention of the Bill . the deeming clause be specifically about the safety of Rwanda , because of our response to their lordship ' position at the Supreme Court hearing . we be not seek to redefine through domestic legislation international law . if the right hon . Gentleman be right and the treaty with Rwanda meet the concern of the Supreme Court , why be this Bill necessary ? if Rwanda be now a safe country as a result of the treaty , why be this highly controversial Bill , which be clearly cause great problem in his own parliamentary party , necessary ? we be put forward legislation that will be clear and unambiguous , so as to support the treaty . the treaty address the concern raise by their lordship . rise — with the indulgence of the House , I intend to make some progress . I want to make sure that other have a full chance to speak in this debate . the Bill set out to Parliament and to the court why Rwanda be safe for those relocate there . the treaty that I sign last week put beyond legal doubt the safety of Rwanda . it provide the basis to end the merry - go - round of legal challenge that have second - guess the will of Parliament and frustrate this policy , this House , and the desire of the british people . Rwanda will introduce an even strong end - to - end asylum system , strong still than the one that underpin its relationship with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees . it will have a specialist asylum appeal tribunal — I thank the Home Secretary for give way . since we last speak in this House , it have be confirm that the Government have give the Rwandan Government £ 240 million , with a furth £ 50 million to come in April — all independently of anybody be be send to Rwanda . will he now confirm that the Government ' s deal also mean a furth £ 50 million in 2025 and a furth £ 50 million on top of that in 2026 ? the right hon . Lady be ask I to confirm figure that we have put in the public domain . unsurprisingly , I be totally comfortable confirm what I have already say . Rwanda will introduce an even strong — rise — the right hon . Lady have the chance to make a speech in just a few moment . the system of specialist asylum tribunal to consider individual appeal against any refused claim within Rwanda will have one Rwandan and one other Commonwealth co - president and will be make up of judge from a mix of nationality , select by the co - president . to the point the right hon . Lady be make about the money spend by the British Government , as be the case with many country around the world , the Government spend money capacity build with our international partner , and we have be work extensively with Rwanda to build capacity too . the treaty make clear that anyone relocate to Rwanda can not be remove from Rwanda to another country except back to the United Kingdom . it be bind in international law and enhance the role of the independent monitoring committee , which will have the power to set its own priority area for monitoring . the committee will have unfettere access to monitor the entire relocation process , from initial screening to relocation and settlement in Rwanda . relocate individual and legal representative will be able to launch confidential complaint directly with that committee . it be that treaty and the accompany evidence pack that enable the Government to conclude with confidence that Rwanda be safe . we will need to be certain that domestic and foreign court will also respect the treaty , and that be why we have introduce this Bill . on that point on foreign court , clause 5 ( 2 ) say : " it be for a Minister of the Crown … to decide whether the United Kingdom will comply with the interim measure . " be the advice from the Attorney General that it will be compatible with international law for a Minister to refuse to comply with such an indication ? my right hon . friend , who be an expert proceduralist in this House , will know that advice from the AG to Government be privileged , and I be not go to share it at the Dispatch Box , but he will also know that the Government ' s position be clear and unambiguous that this be in accordance with international law . he can rest assure of that . will my right hon . friend confirm that , as a matter of law , an interim measure under rule 35 be direct not to the court of the UK , but to the government of the member state ? therefore , what the Bill say simply restate what be the position anyway : it be the member state that it apply to , not the court . my hon . friend be absolutely right . will the Home Secretary give way ? I will give way one more time , and then I will make more progress . the Home Secretary say he will not reveal to the House the Attorney General ' s advice , and that be fine , but on the issue of the money , his permanent secretary be in front of the Public Accounts Committee yesterday and tell we that , as well as the payment of £ 50 million due next year , there be payment plan for year four and five . be he willing to share with the House how much will be pay to Rwanda in year four and five of the programme ? the hon . Lady will know that we have commit to a reporting schedule that be completely consistent with other Government Departments and with the reporting schedule of the Home Office in other area . we intend to commit to do that . this Bill build on the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and complement all other measure that this Government be employ to end illegal migration . the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill make it unambiguously clear that Rwanda be safe and it will prevent the court from second - guess the will of this sovereign Parliament . will my right hon . friend give way ? I have to make progress . the Bill give effect to the judgment of Parliament that Rwanda be a safe country , notwithstanding UK law or any interpretation of international law . for the purpose of the Bill , a safe country be one to which people " may be remove from the United Kingdom in compliance with all of the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law " — I hope that will reassure my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) — " that be relevant to the treatment in that country of person who be remove there . " it mean that someone remove to that country will not be remove or send to another country in contravention of any international law , and that anyone who seek asylum or who have have an asylum determination will have their claim determine and be treat in accordance with that country ' s obligation under international law . rise — I be go to make progress . I have be generous , but I want other to have the chance to speak . anyone remove to Rwanda under the provision of this treaty will not be remove from Rwanda except to the United Kingdom , in a very small number of limited and exceptional circumstance . should the UK request the return of any relocate person , Rwanda will return they . decision maker , include myself or the holder of the post of Home Secretary , an immigration officer and the court must all treat Rwanda as a safe country . they must do so notwithstanding the relevant UK law or any interpretation of international law by court or tribunal . that include the european convention on human right ; the refugee convention ; the international covenant on civil and political right ; the United Nations convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment ; the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being which open at Warsaw on 16 May 2005 ; customary international law ; and " any other international law , or convention or rule of international law , whatsoever , include any order , judgment , decision or measure of the European Court of Human Rights . " the Prime Minister have be crystal clear that he , and the Government he lead , will not let foreign court destroy this Rwanda plan and curtail our effort to break the business model of the evil people - smuggle gang . my right hon . friend make the point about foreign court , but what about domestic court ? be there not a danger that , in pursue quite stringent measure in this Bill , we be really test the principle of comity to breaking point ? this House and this Parliament be sovereign , but we also have the independence of the court and the rule of law to bear in mind , and restraint on both side — by the judiciary and by this place — be essential if we be to maintain the balance of our constitution . my right hon . and learn Friend know I have a huge amount of respect for he , not just as a friend and an individual , but for his experience at the Bar at a very high level . he raise an important point , and I want to give he complete reassurance that we have look very carefully at that balance he speak about and we respect the importance of that . we genuinely believe this Bill get the balance right , although , because of the grow nature of this extreme and perverse trade in human misery , we have to take firm action . we be therefore act in a way that maintain that balance . it be novel . he say it be contentious , and that be true , but we be do it because we have to break this business model . we have to do this . when the European Court of Human Rights — this speak to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) just a moment ago — indicate an interim measure relate to the intended removal of someone to Rwanda under , or purportedly under , a provision of the Immigration Act , a Minister of the Crown alone , not a court or tribunal , will decide whether the UK will comply with that interim measure . in order to far prevent individual claim to prevent removal , the Bill disapplie certain relevant provision from the Human Rights Act 1998 in particular circumstance , include section 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 . this be lawful , this be fair , this be necessary , because we have now address every reason that have be use to prevent removal to Rwanda . we have block asylum claim from be admit with legislation that have already pass through this House : when the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be enforce , modern slavery disqualification provision will assist with speedy removal . the only possible blocking of removal be if an individual can demonstrate , with compelling evidence , that there be an immediate risk of serious and irreversible harm to they in particular under their individual circumstance . that set the bar rightly very high , so that the chance of that happening be rightly extremely small . the only way to deter people from come here illegally be to convince they that if they do , they will be unable to stay . instead , they will be detain and swiftly remove to a safe third country , or their home country , if it be safe to do so . rise — I will conclude , as I have be on my foot for a while . this be how we will save life at sea . this be how we will deter illegal migration . and this — the House should take note — be how we will break the business model of the most evil and perverse trade that we currently can see : the trade in vulnerable people . the people smuggler be not humanitarian ; they be vicious criminal , and we must take action to stop they . this be how we restore confidence in our immigration system and assert full control over our border . rise — I be nearly do ; let I conclude . this be how we will overcome the intolerable pressure on taxpayer , public service and local community that illegal immigration create . that be how we will ensure that the system be fair : fair to those who play by the rule and fair to the british people , who be rightly sick of people arrive here from France in small boat — from France , a safe and wonderful country . Rwanda stand ready to welcome those new arrival . it stand ready to work with we to find a solution on this global issue , rather than be part of a problem , and for that , I believe , it should have our thank and admiration . this be an innovative and humane solution to a grow global problem . other country be look at what we be do and make similar plan of their own . a new treaty and this Bill make it clear in law that Rwanda be a safe country to which to relocate illegal migrant . I want to extend an offer to the whole House . colleague across this House must know how much this matter to our constituent . our voter , no matter which party they vote for , be warm and welcome people to those in genuine need . we have see that in the way in which people across this country have open their home to many of the half a million people who have come here via safe and legal route in the past decade . but the british people rightly expect everyone to play by the rule , and they expect we in this House to do what it take to stop the boat . that be what vote for this legislation mean . our voter be horrify when they see image of people drown in the channel . they be horrify when they see people smuggler take advantage of people . they want an end to illegal migration . this Government have a plan that will provide an alternative home for illegal arrival to the UK and deter other from come here illegally . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while affirm support for secure the UK ' s border , reform the broken asylum system and end dangerous small boat crossing , decline to give a second reading to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill because the Bill will not work to tackle people smuggle gang , end small boat crossing or achieve the core purpose of the Bill , will lead to substantial cost to the UK taxpayer every year whilst apply to less than one per cent of those who claim asylum in the UK , threaten the UK ' s compliance with international law , far undermine the potential to establish security and return agreement with other country and do not prevent the return of relocate individual who commit serious crime in Rwanda back to the UK . " I join the Home Secretary in express our sympathy for the family and friend of the asylum seeker who have apparently die on the Bibby Stockholm . I understand that the Home Secretary can not say more about that at the moment . this should be a debate about how we prevent life be lose , about how we strengthen our border security , about how we stop dangerous boat crossing , and about how we fix the broken asylum system . instead , we have just get total Tory chaos . what a fine mess this weak Prime Minister have get they all into , and get the country into as well . they be tear lump out of each other over a fail policy while let the country down . a Home Secretary have be sack , an Immigration Minister have resign , and the Tories have spend almost £ 300 million of taxpayer ' money on Rwanda without send a single person . the Home Secretary seem to confirm today that , in fact , it be £ 400 million without a single person be send . More Home secretary have be send to Rwanda than asylum seeker — that be about £ 100 million per trip . the climate Minister , the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , have be call back from the Dubai COP for the vote . well , I guess the Government can say that at least one flight have take off as a result of the legislation . we have have the third Tory Home Secretary send to Rwanda in two year , the third bilateral agreement with Rwanda in two year , and now the third Tory law on asylum and Rwanda in two year . and they be about to write their fourth cheque to Rwanda . it turn out that they set up a direct debit : hundred of million of pound for a fail scheme that be only ever likely to cover a few hundred people — less than 1 % of those claim asylum last year — and have become a proxy for the deep civil war in the Tory party . in this carousel of conservative chaos , we have the European Research Group , the Northern Research Group , the New Conservatives , the old Conservatives , the one Nation group , the implausibly name Conservative Growth Group , and if you think that be an oxymoron , Mr Speaker , we also have the Conservative Common Sense Group . seriously , there be so many fighting faction , but they all have one thing in common : they do not believe in the Bill . the Prime Minister be force into an emergency breakfast meeting this morning — less a smoked salmon offensive ; more butter up his mps with bacon butty , and side of briefing and backstabbing — promise his mps amendment and then row back , tell they that he really want to break international law but that the Rwandan Government will not let he . he be hide behind the Kigali Administration because he be too weak to even defend his plan . weak , weak , weak . the Prime Minister say that his patience be wear thin . well , how do the Tories think the country feel when watch this chaos ? he be hope that his party will calm down over Christmas , but they all know who the Christmas turkey be , and he be sit in no . 10 . the Prime Minister have come up with a plan . he be committed to it . we have have assurance from the Dispatch Box that all step will be take to stay within international law . what be the official Opposition ' s plan ? the hon . Gentleman hope that his Prime Minister have a plan , but no Back Bencher on either side of the House seem to agree with it . we be clear that what we should be do be use the hundred of million of pound that the Government be waste in cheque write to Rwanda for nothing — for a scheme that will send , at good , only a few hundred people — to strengthen our border security , go after the criminal gang , and make sure that we clear the asylum backlog and save the taxpayer billion of pound . [ interruption . ] actually , he have not . the Home Secretary like to claim that he be do that ; he like to claim that he be bring down the number of people in hotel , but in fact that number have go up to a record high of 56 , 000 . since the Prime Minister say he be go to end asylum hotel use , it have go up by a further 10 , 000 , because he be fail . I welcome the new immigration Ministers to their post , one of whom , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , have be an immigration Minister before . I think that during the time he be immigration Minister , net migration treble and the number of boat crossing also treble , but I be sure nobody will hold that against he . the Government have obviously appoint two immigration Ministers this time in case another one resign because he think their policy be totally fail and too weak . in the word of the ex - immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , this new law will not work , " doesn ' t do the job " , and be " both legally and operationally fundamentally flawed . " will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way to the hon . member if he can say whether he agree with the previous immigration Minister or the current one . I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for ask I question ; she overestimate my ability . talk of Christmas turkey , this morning the Leader of the Opposition give an interview on Radio 4 that , typically , contain no policy whatsoever . can she outline how she would reduce immigration and tackle the problem that she be castigate this Government for , give that everything she say she would do , the Government be already do ? the trouble be that they be not — they be just not . the scale of the Government ' s operation to go after the criminal gang be tiny . the £ 300 million that the Government have already commit to Rwanda be a third of the budget of the National Crime Agency . they be prepared to put that investment into Rwanda — into this tiny scheme that will affect only a couple hundred people — but be totally fail to invest sufficiently in tackle the criminal gang , work with Europol and go after the supply chain . there be warehouse of boat across Europe that the european police force be totally fail to go after , which our party have say we would go after . we would work with Europol and get new security arrangement in place , which again , the Government be fail to do . instead , we have the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , who sign the last agreement and bring forward the last piece of legislation , say that the Bill be fatally flawed and will not stop the boat . yesterday we have back Benchers say that the Bill should have be pull because it be partial and incomplete , and the Home Secretary — who privately call this whole thing " batshit " — be out to bat for it today , even though he know it will not work . this be the Tories ' asylum crisis . five year ago , we do not have a major problem with dangerous boat crossing , but they let criminal gang take hold along the channel . they fail to work with France at the beginning when they have the chance , and they let smuggler spread their tentacle along the coast , organise dangerous boat crossing that undermine border security and put life at risk . at the same time , the Tories let Home Office decision make collapse . they decide to downgrade the skill and experience of caseworker , then shrug their shoulder when productivity drop . they fail to return people — they have let return collapse , down by 50 % compare with the last Labour Government . the next Labour Government , if we be elect , would set up a new major return unit with , 1 , 000 additional staff to increase return . rather than the total number of return collapse and the Government fail to return people who have no right to be here , our party would introduce a new return unit to make sure we have proper enforcement . [ interruption . ] order . just shout at the shadow Home Secretary be not a good look . you should be listen to what she have to say . will the right hon . Lady give way on the last point ? I will . I be extremely grateful . be this not just a fig leaf for a completely incompetent Home Office ? I have a constituent who have exhaust his leave to remain and want to go back to Fiji . he apply to the voluntary return service in September and give his passport to the Home Office in December — that be in 2022 . the local church be go to pay for his ticket , yet he still can not return . if the Home Office can not deal with case like that , how can we trust it with anything else ? the hon . member be totally right . I have now hear of a series of fail asylum case in which people want to return to their home country and have apply to the Home Office to be able to do so , and the Home Office have tell they that they will have to wait six month because it be so incapable of get a grip . in the case that the hon . Member have raise , somebody have be wait for 12 month to be able to return to their home country . there have be a 50 % drop in return compare with the last Labour Government , because the Tories always go after gimmick and they never get a grip . there be 40 , 000 people whose asylum application have fail and who have not be return , and 17 , 000 people the Government have just lose — they do not even know where they be . it be their policy to let the backlog soar and put 56 , 000 people in hotel . this be the Tories ' asylum crisis , and they be fail to fix it . the Prime Minister have make this legislation — this policy — the Tories ' flagship . it be extortionately expensive , and it be fail . minister have repeatedly try to hide the cost : just 10 day ago , the Home Secretary be try to suggest that it be only £ 140 million . it have already cost twice that for nobody to be send , under a scheme that Home Office official have describe as unenforceable and at high risk of fraud . those hundred of million of pound could now be £ 400 million , and I would like whichever immigration Minister wind up today ' s debate to explain whether this be now , in fact , a £ 400 million plan . that be hundred of million of pound that could have be spend on thousand more police to boost our border security and smash the criminal gang . it could have be use to clear the backlog entirely , end hotel use and save we a further couple of billion pound , or train 1 , 000 doctor or 4 , 500 nurse . of course , if the Government manage to send people to Rwanda , they will have to spend further money , probably around £ 200 , 000 per person — perhaps the Minister could also confirm that figure . that be more than twice as much as it cost here in the UK , so can the Government confirm that by the time they have finish , close to half a billion pound will have be pay to Rwanda for just a few hundred people , around 1 % of those arrive in the country ? the Court of Appeal have say that there be only capacity in Rwanda for around 100 people ; even the judge who agree with the Government say that talk of thousand be " political hyperbole " . the asylum system in Rwanda be also limit : it have only process an average of 100 people a year for the past three year , so at most , it will be a few hundred people . some 56 , 000 people be in hotel , 100 , 000 apply for asylum last year and 160 , 000 be wait in the backlog , so potentially less than 0 . 1 % of those people will be cover by the scheme . it be no wonder that the permanent secretary say yesterday : " we don ' t have evidence of a deterrent effect " . the Government be now on their third new law in two year . the Home Secretary say that the Bill mean " if you enter Britain illegally , you will be detain and swiftly remove … to a safe third country , such as Rwanda " — [ Official Report , 7 March 2023 ; Vol . 729 , c . 152 . ] — except that be not the current Home Secretary , but his predecessor , talk about the last Bill : the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , pass four month ago . the main section of that Act have not actually be enact , because the government know it will not work . the Home Secretary have also say that the Bill will " deter illegal entry into the UK " — [ Official Report , 24 March 2021 ; Vol . 691 , c . 922 . ] and that anyone who arrive illegally will be send " to the country they arrive from or a safe third country " , but that also be not this Home Secretary or this Bill : it be his predecessor but four , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , when she introduce the main provision of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , pass 18 month ago . the main section of that Act have be revoke because it make thing bad . the first Act be largely revoke because it make thing bad , and the second one be not yet in force because the government know it will not work , so forgive we for not believe a single word about the Bill that be before we today . we have hear it all before . when he respond to the debate , the immigration Minister should explain what be go to happen about clause 2 of the Illegal Migration Act , which require the Home Secretary to remove everyone to Rwanda or elsewhere if they arrive after July . the Government have put that provision on hold , apparently until after Rwanda get off the ground , but even if they do manage to do that quickly , more than 15 , 000 people will have arrive in the country on small boat since then , all of whom the Government have now promise to send to Rwanda . if Rwanda be only go to take a few hundred people a year , it be go to take the Government over 100 year to send those 15 , 000 people who have arrive since they pass the last law . it will take they 10 year to send everyone who have arrive in the last fortnight alone . in the meantime , while they focus on this gimmick , they be fail to get a grip and they be fail to bring down the backlog . instead , we have people in asylum hotel at the taxpayer ' expense at the astronomical cost of £ 8 million a day . I have listen with interest for almost 15 minute to hear what the shadow Home Secretary ' s solution be to this incredibly difficult problem . she rightly refer to the fact that we have asylum seeker in hotel at considerable cost , and to the considerable difficulty when it come to their distribution to our local authority for all of we as constituency MPs , but I have not hear a single word about recognise that the Government be come up with a solution that , while it may not work completely , may have a deterrent effect and may be a welcome step in a series of step to help reduce illegal immigration into our country . do she not recognise that ? well , £ 400 million for a fail plan be a hell of a lot of money . what we need to do be clear the backlog , and Labour have set out a proposal for 1 , 000 new caseworker to clear the backlog and for a new return unit to make sure that , instead of this 50 % collapse in return , we actually return people who have no right to be here . do that — clear the asylum backlog and end the asylum hotel — and that will save the taxpayer £ 2 billion . instead of throw away hundred of million of pound , it will save the taxpayer billion of pound . will the right hon . Lady give way ? will the right hon . Lady give way ? will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way to my former colleague on the Home Affairs Committee . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , and we do indeed work together on the Home Affairs Committee . I be a Kent Member of Parliament , and we need to make sure that we take firm and decisive action to deal with illegal migration . I be open - minded in look at this Bill to see whether it deliver that . do she agree — I try to intervene on the Home Secretary on this point — that there be a number of people in the UK who have lose their asylum claim , yet be still in the UK ? what be we go to do , and what be the Opposition ' s plan to ensure that those people be remove , which would be a deterrent ? I have not be give the number of how many of those who have lose all their claim have be remove in the last year , over the last two year or over the last three year , but if we want a deterrent , we need to look at that as well as at this Bill . I totally agree with the hon . member . that be why I hope there will be cross - party support for a plan to have a major new return unit to turn that around . we have 40 , 000 people here who have have their claim reject and should be return , and they be not be return . there have be a 50 % drop in return under the Conservatives over the 13 year of the Conservative Government , and a further 17 , 000 people have just disappear into the system altogether , where there should be proper enforcement . however , the Government be not take action on any of those thing . there be no grip on the system , so Labour would set up a major new return unit , with 1 , 000 staff , to make sure that we have proper enforcement in place . the combination of that and the caseworker will save the taxpayer £ 2 billion . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress first . on the treaty and the Bill before we , the treaty say that number be limit by rwandan capacity . the number of vulnerable refugee send here , of course , be not limited . the treaty say Rwanda can terminate the deal at any time and do not have to take anybody . the treaty also say the UK will fund support for asylum seeker and people grant refugee status for five year . that include accommodation and three meal a day for five year , which be more than here in the UK . it say that people can not be send anywhere else , but can be send back to the UK , and the immigration Minister — or one of they at least — have confirm that if someone commit a terrible crime in Rwanda , the rwandan justice system do not have to deal with they , but can just send those criminal back to the UK . you could not make it up : we have traffic and torture victim and Afghans who help our armed force and flee the Taliban send to Rwanda , but convict criminal send back here . the Bill before we be a total mess , which be why all side of the conservative party do not like it , even though most of they will still vote for it because they be in such a mess . some of they want to stop all court challenge . actually , I think some of they probably want to stop all court , because they have long rip up be the party of law and order or of the rule of law . some of they want the UK to pull out of the european convention on human right , no matter the consequence for the Good Friday agreement , the Windsor framework or the prospect of any future security or return agreement with other country . then we have the really astonishing scene of the british Prime Minister claim that somehow the Rwandan Government ' s commitment to the ECHR be the reason why he can not possibly breach it , and that they be keep the british Prime Minister on the straight and narrow , even though the Rwandan Government be find by the British Supreme Court to be in breach of international law . this be kind of through the look glass now . do the Rwandan Government suddenly care about the european convention on human right , or do the Prime Minister ask they to say that they want the european convention on human right to be comply with , because he be too weak to tell his Back Benchers that he actually think our great country should abide by the international law that we help to write and that we currently urge everyone else to follow ? the shadow Home Secretary will understand the passion and anger that many of our constituent feel — in my own constituency , we have four hotel full of people wait for their asylum determination — and they want this sort out . the Government have come forward with a plan , and she be eloquently explain her reservation about that plan and commit to cancel it . she be also explain what she would do if she be charge with responsibility for this policy in the Home Office . we have 12 month until the country have to face a general election . what timeline would the right hon . Lady put on end the boat if her policy be enact , and will she give that date to the british people from the Dispatch Box today ? I think the right hon . member be just highlight the failure of those on his Front Bench . all of we should want to stop these dangerous boat crossing . they be undermine border security and they be put life at risk . we should be seek to smash the criminal gang and we should be seek to strengthen our border security . we should be seek to return people who have no right to be here , and we should be seek to fix the chaos in the asylum system . Most people want to see both strong border security and a fair , effective and properly control and manage asylum system , which we do not have at the moment . that mean clear the backlog , set up a new return unit and seek to work with France and Albania . we actually agree with the Government on that and support the work the Government have do , but the work with France , Albania and other country should be go much far so that we have European co - operation in place . all of we should be seek to do that , instead of have this total chaos on a gimmick that be not about get a grip . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress , and then I will give way to the right hon . member . the problem be that , even as the Bill stand , it risk break international law , and that make it hard to get further return agreement and to get the further security co - operation that we need with our near neighbour . it be also why , if the one nation group support it , that put its member in a pretty impossible position . clause 1 ( 5 ) say that a safe country be " a country to which person may be remove … in compliance with … international law " . clause 2 ( 1 ) say : " every decision - maker must … treat … Rwanda as … safe " , even if it be not . so even if Rwanda do what it do over the Israel - Rwanda deal and breach international law and send people back for refoulement , even if Rwanda introduce new policy to send people abroad , even if there be a coup in Rwanda , even if Rwanda fail to stop organised gang move people to the border , even if asylum seeker be shoot at in Rwanda — all thing that the Supreme Court find have happen in the past — and even if the treaty be design in good faith , if it fail , the Government be still say that british court can not consider the fact . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way . I do promise to give way to the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , and I will come back to he in the moment . be there a fundamental difference between the Government deeming Rwanda safe and the Labour Government , as they do in 2004 , deem a whole list of country safe in precisely the same way and with precisely the same legislative technique ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman know that that be not the case , because what the Government have do be both to deem and to remove any capacity for the court to consider the fact . we can see how absurd even Government figure think this be . the Home Office ' s legal guidance , publish yesterday , quote legal judgment . one say that " the court should not shrink from apply the fiction create by the deeming provision " . another state : " the statute say that you must imagine a certain state of affair ; it do not say that have do so , you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it come to the inevitable corollary " . the mind do indeed boggle . the problem for the Home Secretary and the one Nation group be that , even as it stand , the Government be effectively admit that they be create legal fiction . they be say that rather than follow the fact , the court will have to follow those fiction instead , for the sake of a tiny scheme that cost not just £ 300 million , but possibly £ 400 million . it also set a precedent . rise — rise — I will give way to the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland , as I say I would come back to he , and then I will come back to the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) . there be two point to correct in the right hon . Lady ' s narrative about what Labour would do that the Government be not do . the first be that the Government be already do much of what she list , and I can attest to that , have fund it in various different capacity . she also miss the point that my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) make a moment ago . we be deal in this instance with the consequence of large number of people come to this country , not with the cause . Rwanda seek to address the incentive drive this evil trade . it be only by get Rwanda to work that we change the calculus not only for the people make the crossing , but for the people expedite it , who be the criminal gang . do the right hon . Lady not recognise that that be why this scheme be so important ? before I call the right hon . Lady , I stress that when people make intervention , not only should they be fairly short , but have do so , it be important to stay for the rest of the speech . some people have be wander out , have make an intervention . anyone who be think of make an intervention , please bear in mind that you then have to stay for the entirety of the speech . the problem for the right hon . member be that he have a scheme that be likely now to cost £ 400 million and that be only likely to cover less than 1 % , and perhaps less than 0 . 1 % , of the people arrive in this country . that be why the permanent secretary have say that there be no evidence of a deterrent . we need the practical measure to take action to go after the criminal gang and to work with our neighbour . he say that the Government be do that already , so how come there have be a drop of 30 % in the number of people convict for people smuggle ? if they be really go after the criminal gang when we know that people smuggle across the channel have rocket , how come conviction for people smuggling have plummet by 30 % ? that be the evidence that the Government be fail to do the basic to tackle those practical thing . the right hon . Lady be make a powerful case that seek to legislate by assertion that Rwanda be safe be as dangerous as it be ridiculous . do she agree that those who claim that this be about parliamentary sovereignty , and that that be why this sinister attack be justify , be wrong , because Parliament can be meaningfully sovereign only within a function legal and constitutional system , which this Bill totally undermine ? without the court be able to interpret law , the legal system do not work , and it undermine this place , too . we have constitutional role for Parliament and the court . it be right for Parliament to respond to court judgment , to adapt and to change policy , but this Bill instead put at risk the compliance with international law that we need to be able to make further agreement . I do not think that , in the end , all of this be about Rwanda ; it be about the deep divide in the conservative party . it be about their chaos . it be about the Prime Minister ' s inability to show leadership . it be about the fact that they just want to tear lump out of each other . they be create chaos while let the country down . the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark , have say that the Government be now aim for just " one or two symbolic flight off before the next election with a handful of illegal migrant on they " . that be not the same as stop the boat , strengthen border security or fix the asylum chaos . rise — I will give way , because I know that the right hon . member like to think of himself as the leader of the Common Sense Group of Conservatives . the right hon . Lady be right ; I be the very personification of common sense , as she have just acknowledge . the real divide be between those people , very largely on the Opposition Benches , who believe that international law trump the supremacy of this place , and those who believe that the reason this place be supreme be that our legitimacy be derive from the people . for that reason , only a polity can make law . international treaty matter , but they do not matter as much when it come to this kind of legislation and the people express their will through those they elect to speak for they . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we be discuss this legislation not because of a european court , but because of a decision by a british court : the Supreme Court . it make a decision base on british law . I know that there be member on the Government back Benches who want to make everything about the european court , and that be the heart of their dilemma . they want to get rid of the european convention on human right . the Foreign Secretary , the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have all say that they do not and they will not . that be at the heart of the Conservatives ' divide and chaos . that be what their row be all about . it be not about have a workable solution to the serious problem of our border security be undermine , of dangerous boat crossing that be put life at risk and of criminal gang whose profit have soar as a result of effectively be allow to let rip along the channel , because the UK and France have fail to work together sufficiently to stop they . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will , and then I will have to conclude my remark . I will quote article 21 of the ECHR , which clearly the right hon . Lady like to support in so many way : " the will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government " . I do not understand how the will of the british people be be express within the european convention on human right and through european court — perhaps she can explain . the hon . member ' s problem be with those on his Front Bench . his problem be with his own Home Secretary , his own Foreign Secretary and his own Prime Minister . he want to make all of this about Europe , rather than about our have a proper border security plan , a proper plan to clear the backlog and a proper plan to fix the asylum chaos that the Tories have create . instead of waste taxpayer ' money , instead of these performative ritual and instead of all the deeming , boggle and scheme , we should be try to build cross - party consensus on what need to be do . [ laughter . ] the Tories can not even build consensus within their own party , so I accept that that be particularly hard for they at the moment . we should be try to build a cross - party consensus on what need to be do to stop the boat crossing that be undermine border security and put life at risk . we should be strengthen border security , smash the criminal gang that have spread their tentacle and go after the supply chain , instead of ignore these warehouse and these lorryload of boat cross Europe unchallenge . we should be get real - time security information , instead of carry on with the ludicrous situation where we do not even know when suspect smuggler operative be fly into our country . we should be get prosecution and conviction for the smuggler gang and their vile trade . we should be clear the backlog , not make it big , and end asylum hotel use . we should be do more of the thing we support , such as the co - operation with France , the deal with Albania and get more workable deal in place . we should be work together across this country and with other country to stop dangerous boat , to smash the gang , to strengthen our border security and , ultimately , to save life . it be time to end all this chaos , time to ditch the gimmick , and time for the Government to get a grip . rise — order . it be obvious that a large number of right hon . and hon . member wish to speak in the debate . I therefore ask that , to start with , member speak for a maximum of eight minute . I will not put on a time limit , but I be rely on colleague to stick to that . the decision to leave office be always a difficult one . the decision to disagree with the Prime Minister — someone I want to support in good time and bad — be always a difficult one , but politician be send here to make difficult decision . no one be force to be a Minister . with high office come responsibility , and no responsibility be great than protect our border and secure we from untold damage as a result of mass illegal migration . we have make huge progress as a country over the last year as a result of the work that the former Home Secretary — my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) — the Prime Minister and I have do , and I wish my right hon . friend the new Home Secretary and his minister all the good in take that work forward . our record stand among the good of any european country . we have , as my right hon . Friend say , reduce the number of small boat arrival to our country by one third . that compare with a one - third increase across Europe , and an almost 100 % increase on Europe ' s southern border in Italy , so the plan that the Prime Minister set out a year ago be work . it be the most comprehensive plan of any european country . we have just hear from the opposition that they have no plan at all . they say that even if the Rwanda scheme be work and have the deterrent effect we all want , they would still scrap it , because ultimately they do not believe in border security and they can not be trust to protect our border . but this problem be not go away . it be go to be one of the define issue of the 21st century . there be million of people on the move — some be flee climate change and persecution , while other be economic migrant understandably in search of a well life . it be a great compliment to our country that so many want to come here , but it be not sustainable . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . Lady in a moment . we have to secure our border , which mean that all the good work that we have do over the course of the last year — the Albania deal , the asylum backlog work , and the deal with Bulgaria , France , Italy and other — be not enough . we be not go to stop the boat purely through that work . we have to interject the strong possible deterrent , and the good deterrent — the only deterrent — that we can use in the course of the next 12 month be the Rwanda deal . that be why it be so critical that we get it up and run . I genuinely believe , have immerse myself in this issue for 14 month , that this be a good policy , that it can work and that it will help our country to fight back against this great scourge . in my job , I have see the consequence of that every day . I have go with my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) to meet her constituent whose home have be break into and whose life have be ruin by illegal migrant . I have spend time with my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) and read about his constituent who be murder by an asylum seeker , who pose as a child and then kill somebody on the street of Bournemouth . I have work with almost every member of this House on their determination to close asylum hotel . even the great advocate for open border change their mind when there be an asylum hotel in their constituency . Hypocrisy be all over this issue . that be why we have to fix this problem . when I say " whatever it take " , I mean it , and I honestly believe that that view be share by all of we on this side of the House and many good colleague on the other side as well . to do that , we have to make sure that this policy work . this be a good - faith disagreement — there be good people on both side of the House , and certainly within my party , who have disagreement about how we can make the policy work — but my point of view be this : untold damage be be do to our country and this issue will be with we for year , if not decade , to come . if we do not operationalise this policy correctly , we will see the number rise for many year to come . if , God forbid , there be a Labour Government , there would be a decade of small boat arrival . I want to stop that . to my mind , there be two big flaw with this Bill . first , as I have say to many who have ask I , include on the medium , it do not address the question of individual claim . if I have learn anything in this job , it be that those seek to frustrate their removal from our country will stop at nothing . the small - boat - chase law firm and legal representative will help they to fight , each and every way . give they an inch and they will take a mile . even the well - mean thing the country have do in recent year , such as our world - lead modern slavery law , be abuse . some 70 % of the people we be seek to remove put in a modern slavery claim at the eleventh hour . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way at the moment . this be prove to be correct every time , so why would we not put into the Bill a provision that say that those people can not bring forward individual claim ? will the right hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will give way in a moment . first , such a provision would bring legal certainty ; secondly , there be operational reason for it . I have meet no one who really understand the operationalisation of the policy who do not believe such a provision be crucial . those adviser have tell I time and again that the scheme will be seriously impede . People will put in claim and go to court . the upper tier tribunal , which be already under pressure , will be overwhelm . our detention capacity — just a few thousand space — will be full . in a single week in August , 2 , 000 bed in our detention facility could be fill . those arrival will go on to our street . they will abscond , as they always do , never to be see again , and the scheme will be bring into quick disrepute . I do not want to see that happen . I will give way to the right hon . Lady . the right hon . Gentleman cast aspersion on Labour ' s approach to this issue . he be in the presence of two former Immigration Ministers : myself and my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . at the end of the last Labour Government , there be one person be return every eight minute . I know from my own caseload that people who have reach the end of the line be still dribble around the system , even though , as other have raise , they want to leave the country . what be the right hon . Gentleman ' s record after 14 month as an Immigration Minister ? there have be a tenfold increase in the pace of asylum decision making , so we have absolutely transform the decision - make system . we have massively increase the number of return — the hon . Lady be on rocky ground on this one , I be afraid — as 22 , 000 people have be return . the difference between our side of the House and hers be that we have the gut and the determination to fix this problem once and for all , which mean interject the strong possible deterrent . be there a Labour Government , I would worry for this country , because we would see a massive increase in the number of small boat arrival , and the people smuggler would be celebrate . that be why it be so important to conservative Members that we — rise — rise — with all due respect , I will not give way , because I only have a few minute leave . we need to use the time that we have leave in government before the general election . of course , I hope we win the next general election , but the public be watch we . they expect we to fix this problem , so why would we not put into the Bill all the strong protection at our disposal ? on the second important thing that need to change in the Bill , it be inevitable , in the light of the Supreme Court ' s judgment , that the Strasbourg Court will impose far rule 39 interim measure . that is , after all , what bedevil the flight arrange by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) a year or so ago . we have to stop that . it be a matter of sovereignty for our country that Ministers , act on the instruction of Parliament , do not allow the flight to be delay . the provision in the Bill be sophistry . it be the express policy of the Government that rule 39 injunction be bind and that to ignore they would be a breach of international law . we be be ask to vote for a provision that it would be illegal to use . I do not want to be in the position that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , whose determination I do not doubt , be in . I do not want my right hon . friend the Home Secretary or my successor as Immigration Minister to be in that position . we as a House be give they a hard deal and do they a disservice if we allow the Bill to continue in that way . they must have the full power of Parliament to ignore those rule 39 injunction and get those flight in the air . there be thing that other will contribute , not least my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) on his work draw out some of the other challenge with the Bill , so I will close with this . this be not a bad Bill , but it be not the good Bill . I want the Bill to work . the test of this policy be not , " be it the strong Bill that we have do ? " , or , " be it a good compromise ? " it be : " will it work ? " that be all the public care about . they do not care about Rwanda as a scheme ; they care about stop the boat , and we be send here to do that for they . I will never elevate contested notion of international law over the interest of my constituent or vital national interest such as national security and border security . the Bill could be so much well . let we make it well . let we make it work . I call the SNP spokesperson . I wish to speak to the reason amendment that stand in my name and that of my hon . friend . before I do so , I want to remark on the tragic news that have emerge that an asylum seeker aboard the Bibby Stockholm be find dead this morning . we do not know yet what the cause be , and we sympathise for that person and everybody who love they , but what I do know be that our word and our policy in this place have consequence . we should all reflect on that in the debate . the UK ' s approach to migration , both legal and illegal , have be nothing short of chaotic , with poisonous rhetoric swirl around the plight of the world ' s most vulnerable at the channel on a stormy night . let I take a moment to reflect on how the Tories have bring we to this parlous state . a former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , double down on Labour ' s hostile environment policy in a speech 11 long year ago . she promise to make life really difficult for those who come to our shore , deport first and hear appeal later . the Immigration act of 2014 and 2016 foster a toxic culture of suspicion and disbelief in the Home Office , turn health staff , employer and landlord into border guard . that lead to the Windrush scandal , the test of English for international communication scandal , and live fractured and still not put back together . it lead to " go home " van and the highly skilled migrant paragraph 322 ( 5 ) scandal . it lead to people be forcibly remove despite have do nothing wrong . it lead directly to the dehumanisation find by the Brook House inquiry and to the rampant spread of covid and scabie in Napier barrack . the Tories tighten up on the lorry , and then we have small boat . the talk get ever tough . the cry of " stop the boat " go out , and the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 come and go . the boat keep come . the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be pass and , oddly enough , do not prove to be much of a deterrent , either . today , we have the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill before we , which the Tories claim will be the one to do it . well , they think that the third time be the charm , so maybe it will or maybe it will not . I be not terribly convinced , but the permanent secretary tell a Committee yesterday that there be no evidence that it will be a deterrent , either . this be policy in a death spiral , tough and tough , turn the screw and threaten people with rendition flight to Rwanda . it will not work , because nothing the Government have do before have work . why ? because it do not deal with the reason why people be come here . People will continue to put themselves in small boat because they feel there be no alternative . they come to reunite with family because of historical tie and because of the english language . it be all too easy to dehumanise , to speak of scourge , swarm and horde , to speak of those who try to come here with no paper as somehow want to cheat the system and skip the queue . as the MP with the high immigration caseload in Scotland , I see many of those people refer to by Ministers at my surgery week in , week out . I have to look they in the eye , as I know so many Tory Members do not have to . I have 138 outstanding immigration case — would the Home Secretary care to look at his inbox once in a while ? I will speak instead briefly about some of my constituent . I will call the first constituent Mohammed , to protect his anonymity . he come here from Sudan and get refugee status . he apply for his wife to come and , after nine month of wait for that application , he come to my surgery in March . in April , conflict break out in Sudan . his wife ' s family flee to Egypt , but , because her paperwork be in the closed visa application centre , she could not go . in May , I be tell that the case be allocate to a decision maker but that the visa application centre in Khartoum be still closed . by October , the case be still with a decision maker , but there be no timescale for a decision , I be tell . on Friday , Mohammed come to my advice surgery to show I picture of a gunshot wound to his wife ' s leg and video footage of those who have be kill in the same incident . I ask Tory Members what they would do if it be their wife . there be no safe and legal route from Sudan , and the family reunion route be demonstrably not work in the face of an ongoing conflict . would they advise she to sit tight and wait for a year and a half for the appropriate paperwork , or should she try to cross international border , by whatever mean , to get to her husband and to safety in Glasgow ? she be not want to skip the queue ; she just want the paperwork do by the Home Office . how about the constituent who I will call Mr and Mrs R ? they be unlucky enough to be visit family in Afghanistan with their five child when it fall . with significant difficulty and scant assistance from UK official , they be eventually able to return to Glasgow several month later , yet they contact I regularly about the family member they have have to leave behind . despite the much - touted afghan scheme , there be no route for they . their relative flee to Pakistan and have to leave everything behind , include their paperwork . the Government of Pakistan be now send people back to Afghanistan — into the hand of the very Taliban they flee from . I ask Tory Members again : what would they advise Mr and Mrs R ' s family to do ? should they ask the Taliban for a passport , wait for the Taliban to come to their door , wait for the Pakistani Government to arrest they , or should they try another route ? it be no accident that Afghans make up the great number of people in small boat . as Safe Passage have point out , in the first nine month of this year , just 279 Afghans come through official route . for every person arrive through the afghan scheme , 17 Afghans be cross the channel in a small boat . this week , we have hear about how the afghan relocation and assistance policy be leave those who serve with our armed force at risk of execution . I recently travel with the Home Affairs Committee to hear more about what be happen in France and Belgium and their response to small boat crossing . the French Red Cross say that it work with the young unaccompanied asylum seeker it find who be try to cross the channel to reach family member in the UK . it try to convince they of the merit of a family reunion application , but the backlog be so long and the casework so slow that they will inevitably wait for many month . member in this place tend to forget that the channel be not the beginning of somebody ' s journey but the end ; it be the last leg . the channel hold little fear , give the dangerous journey that some have already make to be here . it could not be more tempting to know that they be so nearly to safety . if a humanitarian travel document exist , those same young people could avoid the perilous journey in a leaky rubber dinghy . they could get the same train or ferry that many million of traveller do every year . they would not need to pay people smuggler at all — that would kill the business model at a stroke . it be the denial of that logical option that be place people in danger . what be the Government offering instead ? they be say , " if you make that long and dangerous journey to our shore , your case will not be hear at all and you may be send to Rwanda . " the hon . Member be make an excellent speech and bring real humanity to the debate . be she aware that the people in Calais who be try to cross the channel be homeless , poor , desperate , and often victim of war and human right abuse , and that walk away from international law and international convention will not offer protection to they or to any other desperate people in the world and will send a terrible message to the rest of the world that this country be turn its back on the international law that it establish in 1948 ? the right hon . Gentleman make an excellent point . through the Bill , this country be turn its back on its international obligation . it be a pathetic excuse for policy — a foghorn signal to the far right . it be too weak for some of the Home Secretary ' s colleague , but too harsh for a few exceptional other . for all the talk of full fat versus semi - skim , it be more akin to milk that have go stagnant and sour — utterly repellent to decent people and well bin altogether , for everyone ' s safety . for the SNP , the Bill be an abhorrence that undermine the UK ' s international obligation and the principle of human right . it cost a fortune and it be highly unlikely to achieve even its tawdry aim . we shall be table a prayer against the Rwanda treaty . the legal expert I have hear from be appal by the implication of proceed with a Bill that , by the Home Secretary ' s own frontispiece to it , can not be declare compliant with the echr . the Home Secretary claim that he respect the Supreme Court ' s decision , but he come here today with the sole purpose of overturn they and prevent the Court from rule on anything ever again . for a government to disapply human right when it suit they , and instruct court and public body to do likewise , be deeply troubling . Liberty have state that the Bill will " tie the hand of every court in the UK while also abandon the UK ' s international commitment " . far be it from I to be concern about the UK ' s constitution or stand in the world , but I note that the Law Society of Scotland have question the UK ' s rationale in disapplye a range of human right agreement date back 70 year , and the global implication of that departure from the international right order . the Immigration Law Practitioners ' Association , Justice and Freedom from Torture say that the Bill " send a devastating signal to the world about the UK ' s reliability as an international partner " . the Bill also beg the question whether break international law be something that the Rwandan Government would accept . Minister Vincent Biruta reportedly say : " without lawful behaviour by the UK , Rwanda would not be able to continue with the Migration and Economic Development Partnership . " it be beneath contempt for the UK Government on the one hand to say , " we be present a treaty with Rwanda — marvel at how solid and unbreakable it be , " while , on the other , to tell we that they want to breach the human right convention , the refugee convention , the 1966 international covenant on civil and political right , the 1984 United Nations convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , the Council of Europe convention on action against trafficking in human being agree at Warsaw on 16 May 2005 , as well as customary international law and any other law that might get in their way , include from the European Court of Human Rights . international law be bind : no welching , no backsie , no key up . the Government be suppose to adhere to it ; that be why they sign up to it in the first place . this be abject nonsense . the Law Society of England and Wales go far , state clearly that " domestic legislation can not immunise the Government from the enforcement of international law . to claim it can be disingenuous " . it also state that refuse to comply with an interim measure would be a " clear and serious breach of international law . " it accuse the UK Government of use law to manufacture a reality . it be the time of year that we all indulge in some Christmas magic and imagine reindeer on the roof , but this UK Tory Government have ask the entire United Kingdom legal system to engage in a far more dangerous pretence . the UK Supreme Court seek out the fact for itself and , upon clear and substantial evidence , find Rwanda to be unsafe . that seem most likely why the Government want to ban court from do that again , via this legislation . the Court speak of the risk of refoulement and of send people back into harm ' s way . indeed , if Rwanda be safe , why would it be able to send asylum seeker to the UK as part of the deal ? the rwandan opposition leader Victoire Ingabire Umuhoza be sentence to 15 year in jail for speak out against the Rwandan Government . despite be release in 2018 , to this day she still can not exercise her political right . she have to criticise the deal in the international medium , because she say that the local medium dare not give she a platform . rise — if the right hon . member can explain how Rwanda be safe , I will certainly give way . the key thing about this whole debate be the tension that the hon . Lady have describe . be she familiar with the ruling of Lord denning , Lord Hoffmann , Lord Bingham and , more recently , Lord Reed , all of which directly contradict what she say about the balance between international law and law pass by this Parliament ? do she acknowledge the truth that all those very distinguished jurist say the opposite of what she say ? I acknowledge that different lawyer will have different opinion . in its briefing , the Law Society of England and Wales say that the Government be be disingenuous in what they be claim , and I will take their word for it . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) cite various judge , but the most supreme court in the United Kingdom be the UK Supreme Court , and it be very clear in the first Miller case that , although parliamentary sovereignty might mean that the law can be change internally , this Parliament can not legislate its way out of its international obligation . do my hon . friend agree that , no matter what various judge may have say at various time , it be a recent massive constitutional case of the UK Supreme Court that we should look to on this issue ? my hon . and learn Friend be absolutely correct , and have knowledge of many of these issue . it be important to reflect on those case and what they actually mean , rather than what Government member wish they mean . the Bill declare Rwanda safe in all circumstance . in so do , it undermine the rule of law and the separation of power , prevent the court from establish their own fact and drive a sleigh and a squad of reindeer through the principle of restraint . my tortured metaphor end here because , far from be Santa , the Home Secretary make the Grinch look generous ; he truly do have a heart that be two size too small . the treaty create new rule for Rwanda but , in reality , nothing have change in the week since the judgment . Lords Reed and Lloyd - Jones say that " intention and aspiration do not necessarily correspond to reality : the question be whether they be achievable in practice . " the Supreme Court find that Rwanda have thus fail to meet international obligation and be unlikely to meet additional one . there be no evidence that the long - term culture shift require be likely to happen quickly . Rwanda process only 228 decision on asylum claim in 2020 , and reject claim from country such as Afghanistan , Syria , Yemen , Iran and Eritrea . I do not want to get drag into the merit or otherwise of Rwanda as a nation , as there be a far broad principle in play . if we start to offload our international responsibility to a third country — any third country — we be effectively surrender our influence over what happen next . this government themselves have become the people trafficker , send human being offshore against their will as if they be some kind of waste to be process rather than human being alike in dignity . there be real concern about the impact that this flagrant disregard for international co - operation could have on trade policy , the Good Friday agreement and the Windsor framework . the implication of what be happen here today could be far - reach and long - last across many aspect of all our life . let I move to cost . quite typical of the way that this Tory Government run their business , there have be secrecy over the cost . yesterday , the permanent secretary be finally force to reveal the additional £ 100 million payment to Rwanda , after the figure show up in some International Monetary Fund paperwork . that be on top of £ 140 million the previous year and £ 50 million to come next year , for a scheme that thus far have see more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker fly to Rwanda . it will cost £ 169 , 000 per asylum seeker — significantly more than if they be process in the UK and allow to rebuild their life here and contribute to society , as so many dearly wish to do . we all know that the capacity of the deal make it practically impossible . the estimate capacity of around 200 would mean that the probability of be renditione to Rwanda be one in 230 . if the UK Government be to remove everyone who cross in a small boat last year , it would cost £ 7 . 7 billion . that would be an obscene use of public fund at any time , but particularly so in a cost of living crisis . then there be the ongoing problem , which the Government be fail to address , of those people who have arrive and will not be remove . they be forever stick in immigration limbo , with their case deem inadmissible . at what cost ? where will they stay ? what will they do for the rest of their life ? a further danger of the Bill be that it will force people into even risky behaviour . the Refugee Council have state that almost everyone who arrive in the UK do so after be intercept by the UK coastguard , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution or Border Force , and many actively contact those agency ask to be rescue . the Bill make it far less likely that they will do so . they will take more dangerous route and they will not seek assistance , and the inevitable result be that many more will die in the channel or in the back of refrigerated lorry . the Bill will also leave people at the mercy of exploitative people trafficker . the Home Affairs Committee have already find that " the fight against human trafficking be , in practice , no long a priority for the UK Government " . the Bill , and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 that come before it , make that bad . the treaty also state that there be nothing to stop people leave Rwanda once they be remove there , regardless of anything Ministers may claim . the BBC , on its visit to the Gashora refugee camp in Rwanda , find that those who have be move there under other scheme do not wish to stay : " of the almost 2 , 000 people who have be relocate to the transit camp in Gashora since it be set up in 2019 , none opt to stay in Rwanda when give the option , prefer instead to move to another country . " so what do we have ? we have endless fail policy . we have the ramping up of tension through rhetoric . we have ineffective legislation . we have the overruling of judge . we have the abolition altogether of the asylum system . we have the undermining of human right . it be like the tv series " Years and Years " on steroid . it do not have to be this way . together with refugee publish this week a clear alternative to fix the broken system and keep people safe . minister could not be less interested . the response from the right wing ? to pillory Gary Lineker for have the temerity to speak his mind . the Scottish Government recently publish a paper set out an alternative in Scotland to this ineffective and fail system , end the hostile environment and ensure that humane , fair and compassionate refugee and asylum policy be a priority . we should never forget the trauma and unimaginable suffering that lead people to flee their home . they be people , just like we . be it happen to we , we would all hope to be treat far well than those on the Government Benches would have it , and to find safety and sanctuary when we need it most . it be on that principle that the refugee convention be create . we should stand up for that principle today and reject this cruel , unworkable and illegal Bill . rise — order . just to clarify , since the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) refer to it , the reason amendment that have be select be the one in the name of the Leader of the Opposition . if I be to have any chance of get everybody in , I will need to introduce a time limit , which I will do now . it will be eight minute for the moment , but I be sure it will go down . I have be able to notify the next speaker of that limit . the recent Rwanda case be the most recent case on matter relate to parliamentary intention , the supremacy of law and the rule of law , and the proper application of the rule of law . one claimant — and it require only one claimant — have his claim dismiss by the Supreme Court on the ground that parliamentary sovereignty have already undermine his case . the case be about retain EU law , but it actually undermine the case of that claimant . that be a clear indication that the Court be go to take the sovereignty of Parliament first , and that be the key issue in this debate . it have be say by the court that sovereignty trump international law . it be absolutely clear that that be the case . only this year , the House of Lords Constitution Committee , in paragraph 58 of its report on the rule of law , state : " parliamentary sovereignty mean that Parliament can legislate contrary to the UK ' s obligation under international law . " that be a reinforcement of the judgment I mention in an intervention , include those of Lord Hoffmann , Lord Bingham and Lord den . our great jurist have all come to exactly the same conclusion . the President of the current Supreme Court , which deal with the Rwanda case , say the same thing in paragraph 144 of its judgment in that case : " the principle of legality do not permit a court to disregard an unambiguous expression of Parliament ' s intention such as that with which we be concern " . so , the position be completely clear and those case — rise — before the hon . and learn Lady seek to intervene , I want to get this quite clear . the Miller case be on a different set of circumstance . not only that , but it have be overtake by subsequent constitutional judgment by the Supreme Court itself . I want to quote now from Lord — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way . the hon . and learn Lady can say what she like . it be refreshing to know that my article 10 right have not be withdraw yet . the point be this . the hon . Gentleman may be right , as a matter of domestic law of England that the sovereignty of the English Parliament allow England to change its domestic law internally . [ interruption . ] he may be right ; it be in dispute as we know . what he be definitely not right about be that this Parliament can not domestically legislate to take we out of our international legal obligation without do so clearly . the Supreme Court have be crystal clear about that . there be two separate matter here : domestic law and international law . if the Government want to breach their international legal obligation , be I not right , base on Supreme Court authority , that they will actually have to withdraw from the treaty to which they be committed ? absolutely . I be glad that the hon . and learn Lady mention the fact that an unambiguous statement — an explicit statement , as Lord Sumption put it — on the position in interpret the intention of Parliament carry enormous weight and , in fact , overrides international law obligation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no . I be go to read out — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not give way . I be go to quote directly from Lord Hoffman himself in relation to an ECHR case . [ interruption . ] this be the case of r . v . lyon 2003 . he state : " the Convention be an international treaty and the ECtHR be an international court with jurisdiction under international law to interpret and apply it . but the question … be a matter of english law . and it be firmly establish that international treaty do not form part of english law and that english court have no jurisdiction to interpret or apply they … Parliament may pass a law which mirror the term of the treaty and in that sense incorporate the treaty into english law . but even then the metaphor of incorporation may be misleading . it be not the treaty but the statute which form part of english law . and english court will not ( unless the statute expressly so provide ) be bind to give effect to interpretation of the treaty by an international court , even though the United Kingdom be bind by international law to do so . of course there be a strong presumption in favour of interpret english law … in a way which do not place the United Kingdom in breach of an international obligation " — but , and this be absolutely crucial — " the sovereign legislator in the United Kingdom be Parliament . if Parliament have plainly lay down the law , it be the duty of the court to apply it , whether that would involve the Crown in breach of an international treaty or not . " that be what the law be . that be a straightforward interpretation and statement . there be an issue that I want to come to . I praise my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) for his courage and for a brilliant speech , and endorse every word he say , but I would also like to say this : we want the Government to succeed in their legislation , but it have to be legislation that work . as I have explain , in relation to the Supreme Court , the whole question turn on the intention of Parliament and the sovereignty of Parliament . it be a question of justiciability as well . I put to my hon . and learn Friend the Minister for Illegal Migration that , when it come to it , we can make change to the Bill . it be possible to extend the scope of the Bill , and I hope he will have discussion with the Clerk of Public Bills , with whom I have have discussion already . it be absolutely clear that the scope of the Bill will determine the amendment , whether from the Government or Back Benchers . it matter that we be entitle to have a proper debate on this fundamental question about international law and its relationship to sovereignty . the Bill , if enact after Royal Assent , could be scupper by one claimant and by the court if the word of the Act be not clearly express and explicit in rule out any such claim , for example under clause 4 or any other heading , such as rule 39 and all the other thing we will no doubt trot out in Committee if we get there . we therefore have to address the question of the scope of the Bill , because that be the way that Parliament function . that be the way Mr Speaker must decide on the selection of amendment , so it be crucial . there be much more that I could say , but I let I end by draw attention to the global issue . the fact be that throughout the European Union there be a real problem . they be tear their hair out , because on the one hand they have the charter of fundamental right , and on the other they be bind by qualified majority vote to comply with the situation , which be actually not the same for we . we have a unique opportunity , in our parliamentary system and with the sovereignty of Parliament , to be able to make amendment and provide domestic law that will satisfy the voter of this country . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . may I start by express my condolence follow the news of the death of an asylum seeker on the Bibby Stockholm barge this morning ? it be now almost one year since the Prime Minister pledge to " stop the boat " . no one here be argue against that goal — we all want to see an end to people risk their life by get into small boat and cross the channel — but , as we in the Home Affairs Committee state clearly in our report last year on channel crossing , there be no silver bullet to end small boat crossing . we say that it would take the adoption of a variety of policy , include safe legal route and additional cross - border policing to go after criminal gang . we make many other recommendation ; we even suggest the innovative idea of pilot the processing of asylum claim in reception centre in France , a system that would be similar to the juxtaposed border control arrangement that we already have with France . in April last year the then Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , announce the Rwanda scheme , and since then an extraordinary amount of financial and political capital have be pour into this policy . while we accept that progress have be make on some of our recommendation , include clear the legacy backlog and develop work with France and Belgium , the eye of the Government have be lock on the Rwanda policy and its implementation . the underlying assumption of the policy be that the prospect of be send to Rwanda will act as a deterrent for those thinking of cross the channel . let we not forget , however , that the Rwanda policy require a ministerial direction to the Home Office permanent secretary to get the scheme under way . why ? it be because the permanent secretary be not convince that the scheme constitute value for money . there be — and there remain — no clear evidence that the deterrent effect would work , which cast doubt on the scheme ' s value for money . likewise , the Home Affairs Committee feel that although the policy be good at generate headline , it lack a clear evidence base and full costing . the Committee have be attempt to scrutinise the policy ever since , but we have be strike by how difficult it have be to obtain fact and information from the Home Office on the detail of the scheme . that have undermine our ability to perform our scrutiny function . we know that an additional £ 120 million have be pay at the start of the agreement , and that there would be an additional payment for each person send to Rwanda to process their claim and to enable successful claimant to receive up to five year of support from the United Kingdom . we subsequently learn that a furth £ 20 million have be provide as a down - payment on the initial cost for process asylum seeker , so we know that a total of £ 140 million have be pay . we repeatedly seek information , but be meet with claim of commercial confidentiality whenever we ask question about additional funding . it be with some surprise , therefore , that my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and I receive a letter from the permanent secretary last Thursday evening inform we that an additional £ 100 million have be pay to the Rwanda Government in April 2023 , and that a furth £ 50 million would be send in 2024 . however , on 29 November the Committee be unable to establish from the permanent secretary the cost of send each person to Rwanda . the impact assessment for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 have estimate £ 169 , 000 per person , but Home Office official could not confirm that in November . give that we be be ask to support the Bill today , it be essential that we know the costing , whether the Bill policy represent value for money , and whether it will work . Parliament be be ask to assess whether the Bill will deliver a scheme that constitute an appropriate use of public money , without the Government ' s tell we how much public money be due to be spend . I hope the Minister will be able to confirm exactly how much money have be spend , pledge and budget for in respect of each year of the UK - Rwanda memorandum , and now the treaty , and that he will commit himself to give quarterly financial update to Parliament . let I now deal with the specific provision in the Bill . as we all know , the aim be to ensure that irregular migrant arrive in the UK be quickly send to Rwanda , with very few legal opportunity to appeal and with clause 3 expressly disapplye several part of the Human Rights Act . the Committee note in our report last year that " the Government risk undermine its own ambition and the UK ' s international standing if it can not demonstrate that propose policy … such as the Rwanda partnership now be legally challenge , be compatible with international law and convention . " as we know , clause 2 would require all decision maker to accept Rwanda as a safe country for removal , despite the ruling of the Supreme Court . as a very distinguished former Solicitor General , Sir Edward Garnier KC , have say , " it ' s rather like a bill that have decide that all dog be cat . " indeed , the Bill do not resolve any of the issue raise by the Supreme Court , whose decision be base on evidence that Rwanda have previously violate international human right treaty . the Bill be not a magic wand that will suddenly make that evidence disappear . I also question the need to legislate that Rwanda be a safe country . if the treaty say that it be safe , should not the Government be confident that the court will now reach a different view and also conclude that it be safe ? the Bill will prevent the court from carry out independent and rigorous scrutiny of any claim that there be substantial ground for fear a real risk of refoulement or treatment contrary to article 3 of the european convention on human right . I understand that that would be incompatible with the UK ' s international obligation under the refugee convention and the echr . be the Minister concerned about the Bill ' s impact on the UK ' s international standing , particularly give the absence of an evidence base for its deterrent approach , and be he concerned about the possibility that by effectively reverse through statute a Supreme Court judgment on the fact , the Bill could undermine the constitutional role of the judiciary ? let I now turn to some practical question . accord to the treaty , second independent expert will be support asylum decision making for the first six month , and asylum appeal will be make to a new appeal body . it also refer to free legal advice and representation from legal professional member of the Rwanda Bar Association . all these thing will take time to develop and will need investment , so I wonder whether there be an additional cost that the Minister might like to tell we about . I have no doubt that the Rwandan Government have enter into this treaty in good faith , but the question of whether it have be enter into in good faith by both party be beside the point . what matter be whether rwandan official will recognise and comply with their obligation , and whether there be sufficient resource and adequate capacity in the group to enable this to happen . neither of those can be guarantee by the treaty or by the Bill , so I hope that the Minister will provide evidence today that capacity building and attitude change have take place , thus address the Supreme Court ' s concern . the challenge of stop dangerous boat crossing be real , but so be the challenge of clear the backlog , end the use of expensive hotel , and deliver an asylum system that work . all that warrant serious , evidence - base solution , with full costing . in defend the Bill , which I will attempt , one have to reckon with those who think that it go too far , or may go too far , and with those who think it go not far enough . let I first address those who think that it go too far , of whom the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) be an example . the Bill be criticise on the basis that it deem Rwanda to be safe . it be say that that be an illegitimate legal technique . it be say that it perpetuate , or perpetrate , a fiction in law . that be precisely the same fiction that the Labour Government adopt in the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants , etc . ) Act 2004 . no . yes , it be . it be change two or three year later , but in the Nasseri case before the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords , their lordship uphold , as a matter of law , the deeming of country to be safe and within the law . indeed , they go on to say — Lord Hoffmann be one of they , I think — that while Parliament deem it such , there be plainly risk if the Home Office do not keep an eye on the state and condition in the country that be thus deem , but otherwise it comply with the law and the court would respect Parliament ' s decision . what be be say in this case be that a Supreme Court decision have already hold Rwanda not to be a safe country for the purpose of the guarantee against refoulement . it be say that for this House to overrule the decision of the Supreme Court in such an individual case be constitutionally undesirable and contrary to fundamental constitutional principle . I do not agree with that analysis . first , it be open to this Parliament at any point to take step to reverse the effect of a judicial ruling — that be the consequence of parliamentary supremacy . it be clear that Parliament should be restrain in do so in case , for example , where individual right in a case to reverse a determination make in favour of an individual would plainly be contrary to fundamental constitutional principle , but that be not what we be do here . we be seek to do precisely what the Labour Government do in 2004 . we be say that Parliament , legitimately weigh the evidence , have conclude that Rwanda will not engage in the refoulement of those send to it . that be something the court have already accept . it be something that it be open to this House to do , and it be something that , in my judgment , it be perfectly legitimate for Parliament to undertake . it would be different if it be to reverse a decision against an individual . but even if I be wrong about that , and even if as a matter of constitutional convention it be undesirable for this House to reverse the effect on a question of principle — namely , whether Rwanda be safe for the purpose of refoulement — the fact have change . there be now a bind treaty , and it be bind not only in international law but in domestic rwandan law . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) have rightly analyse the situation of international law . in this country we have a dualist jurisdiction where treaty be not self - executing , but in Rwanda the treaty be self - execute , so it will be bind on the Rwandan Government not only as a matter of international law , but as a matter of their own law . that treaty contain a range of important safeguard , include , as a longstop , the fact that no individual remove to Rwanda from this country can be remove to a third country without the consent of the United Kingdom . if that longstop be in place , if the treaty be bind in rwandan law and if it be bind , as it be , in international law , then I would suggest that there be simply no credible risk of refoulement if treaty and legal rule mean anything in the United Kingdom and in Rwanda . if the risk of refoulement have be remove , then there be nothing inappropriate in this House determine , as the Labour Government do in 2004 , that Rwanda be safe for the purpose of refoulement . so I say to the House that this be appropriate , and it be a judgment that we can make as a House to take the step that we be now take . will the right hon . and learn Gentleman give way ? I can not give way ; I do not have time . let I move to the third and most important question , which relate to the exclusion of access to court . this Bill carefully preserve the right of individual to come to court in extreme case of individual justice . I listen , impressed , to my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and I submit to those who think the Bill go far enough that we can not sacrifice the principle of access to a court . if we eliminate it entirely , not only would the Bill collapse because it would be interminably impede in the House of Lords , but it would probably lead to the Rwandan Government withdraw ; and it be conceivable that the court could entertain , for the first time , a complex challenge about the right of this Parliament to do away with fundamental constitutional principle such as access to a court . the supremacy of this House do not necessarily mean that it do not operate within a complex system of constitutional institution , each of which have its own place as a component part in that system . will my right hon . and learn Friend give way ? no , I can not give way ; I simply do not have time . constitutional principle compete in creative tension . parliamentary sovereignty be the most important of they , but there be other that be fundamental and one of they be access to a court in extreme case . that be what this Bill preserve . I say to my right hon . friend that I understand their frustration and their deep , intense dissatisfaction with the current situation ; I share it . I think that there be tighten that we could do , particularly on rule 39 . but on the preservation of the right to go to court in an extreme case , I say that be part of the british constitution that our father and our party have support , and for which they have fight , for generation , and it would be wrong of we to compromise on that — Order . I be sorry to have to interrupt the right hon . and learn Gentleman , but he be fully aware that we have to stick to the time limit . after Sir George Howarth , whom I shall call next , I be afraid that , give the number of hon . member who wish to participate , I shall have to reduce the time limit to six minute . the Government ' s failure to arrive at a workable solution to the problem of asylum seeker relate not only to how they have try to deal with refugee , but to their failure to create the capacity in our country to maintain reliable service , and to such an extent that many british people find themselves unable to access the basic need and service to which they be entitle . this be also about the Government ' s stewardship of the economy . additionally , it be root in their careless conduct of our relationship with other country , particularly in Europe . therefore , in deal with this sensitive issue , it be crucially important that we be clear about the principle upon which any approach should be base . the problem , however , be that the Government too often confuse slogan with policy , and in so do they fail to take account of the principle upon which a realistic policy should be base . their cynical obsession with create dividing line be a barrier to build the sort of consensus to which my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) refer . for the purpose of clarity , let I say at the outset that our country ' s capacity to admit migrant be finite . it therefore follow that we need a much more structured method of determine how many people can be accommodate ; one that take into account the capacity of our public service and our economy . I will later say a few word about the space that exist in our economy to fill the gap in various industry and sector . one of the principle would be to match would - be immigrant with sector in which there be insufficient people to plug those gap . many of those people have those skill . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that it would make eminent sense to ensure that people who claim asylum in the United Kingdom have the right to work while they await a decision , not least because it would allow they to be well integrate into our community when they get their decision ? allow people to support themselves while they be here would also reduce the cost to the taxpayer . I will address that point later in my speech , if I have enough time . in England , the NHS waiting list for hospital treatment rise to a record of nearly 7 . 8 million in September , up from approximately 2 . 3 million . ambulance response time have also rise , go up to one hour and 30 minute in December 2022 , against a target of 18 minute . the UK be experience an acute housing crisis , with house building consistently fail to keep pace with demand . the National Housing Federation say that 8 . 5 million people in England be in housing need , with 4 . 2 million of they in need of a social rent home . in England , in 2022 , people have to spend more than eight time their annual salary to purchase a home . in 2020 - 21 , 17 % of primary school and 23 % of secondary school be over capacity . we do not get to this position by accident ; it be the result of 13 year of careless neglect and the obsessive pursuit of shrink the state . I will now turn to the capacity of our economy and the ongoing skill shortage . GDP be at zero growth , and low GDP growth be forecast to continue into 2024 and possibly beyond . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s late economic and fiscal outlook state that , in 2024 - 25 , living standard be forecast to be 3 . 5 % low than pre - pandemic level , which be the large reduction in real living standard since record begin in the 1950 . the skill shortage not only affect our overall economic performance ; they be also have a negative effect on our provision of public service such as health and housing , as well as affect the important food supply , care and hospitality sector . many refugee already have those skill and , with a constructive approach from the government , would be able to plug the gap in those sector and , consequently , help to grow the economy . our poor relationship with Europe and the wide world make it more difficult for we to co - operate with other country , whether bilaterally or through collective international effort , to deal with the deeply damaging consequence of war and conflict , part of which be the grow displacement of people from their homeland , which result in mass migration . bluntly , we be not trust to be a reliable and constructive partner , and our international influence have diminish to the extent that other country simply do not take we seriously . as I say at the outset , the Government have try to turn a slogan , " stop the boat , " into a policy . consequently , they have fail to offer a solution to the problem . many conservative member know this to be the case , but they have splinter into faction , either want to go far , regardless of our international obligation , or be aware that another , more effective approach be need . sadly , this Bill and their conduct illustrate that the conservative party be not a competent or coherent party that be fit to govern ; rather , it be one riven by war faction . frankly , it be now time for the Conservatives to make way for national leadership from a party that will calmly and competently deal with our mount problem . after a good deal of hesitation , I shall support the Bill tonight . my hesitation be real because , for I , the Bill go as close to the wind constitutionally as one can go . I listen with great care to the eloquent speech of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) . I agree entirely with his very careful analysis of the Bill . the Bill take a novel and unusual approach . we be deal with an unusual and press situation , and therefore strain the sinew of what be acceptable can just be justify . equally , the idea that legislation be the sole or even the principal solution to this situation be , I think , wrong . ultimately , an operational solution be require . it be surprising that some previous occupant of the Home Office do not think about that rather more , although other do and it be a pity that their idea be not act upon . ultimately , it will be operational measure that make the real difference . if this Bill can make a difference , and provide that the safeguard that my right hon . and learn Friend mention remain , I can , with hesitation , live with it . I be indebted to the analysis provide by the Society of Conservative Lawyers , and I declare my interest as chair of its executive committee . the paper be write by Lord Sandhurst KC and Harry Gillow , who be both experience in international law . if we want opinion on such thing , it be good to go to people with experience in the field of international law , rather than in other field . they conclude , as I do , that although there be area that need to be examine with care , the Bill fall on the right side of the line . deeming provision be not unprecedented , as have be set out . I share the concern set out by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) about how deeming provision interact with international law obligation , and I hope the Minister will take that on board and explore it . we can deem in domestic law , but we can not legislate to oust our international law obligation . the useful analysis of the Society of Conservative Lawyers pamphlet state that in reality , if the UK be to breach international law convention , not only would that be constitutionally wrong ; it would collapse the scheme , because Rwanda have make it clear that it would not be party to such a scheme . I do not buy for one second the rather patronising attitude that say the Rwandans have be put up to say that . I think they be utterly genuine in their belief . it be important to remember that other country that be subject to the european convention on human right be report to be explore potential arrangement with Rwanda . if Rwanda be to be party to a scheme in which the United Kingdom be break international law , Rwanda would inevitably forfeit any opportunity to engage with other ECHR country , so it would certainly withdraw . People have to be careful what they wish for . if they go too far , they will drive the Rwandans out of the scheme and the whole policy would collapse . it be critical that individual right of challenge be preserve , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon say . I be a conservative because I be a constitutionalist , and I be a constitutionalist because I believe in check and balance . frankly , the day the conservative party think that the end justify the mean and ignore the principle of comity , and the day it think that any single policy objective override the importance of our constitutional check and balance , be the day it cease to be the conservative party as most people would recognise it . maintain that balance be essential , and Ministers have , with great endeavour , just manage to do that , but that do not mean that I do not dislike much of the Bill ' s wording . I say that look at part of clause 1 , in particular subsection ( 4 ) , which state : " it be recognise that … the Parliament of the United Kingdom be sovereign , and … the validity of an Act be unaffected by international law . " that be a GCSE law statement of the blindingly obvious , if I might respectfully say so ; it might well be describe as " otiose and nugatory " as it add nothing to the Bill . it be performative — [ interruption . ] well , it can be whichever way round one like . pointless might be another way of put it . I wonder what it add . clause 5 ( 2 ) be another such passage . it relate to the approach to interim measure under the Strasbourg Court ' s rule 35 and state that this be for Ministers " to decide " . again , that state exactly what the position in law be in any case . we have only to look at the textbook to say , as I do in my intervention , that it be for the Government to decide on rule 35 issue , because they be direct to the Government , not to the court . it be a bit patronising to tell the court what be well within their competence to know and decide upon . with those reservation , I will support the Bill tonight , but I just say that if it be to change and any of the safeguard that have be leave in be to be remove , my support would go . some people would then have push the Bill over the line into the unacceptable and , in my judgment , the un - Conservative , and I would not support it . I do not believe that that be the Government ' s intention and so I will help they to get the Bill through tonight , but they must be wary of some who do not have the good of objective for the Government ' s policy and might take it in the wrong direction — let ' s not get there . it be a delight to follow the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who make one of the good speech so far today against the Bill . unfortunately , he do not follow through on his logic , but I be sure that by the end of this process he will do , because he know perfectly well that the Bill be not really acceptable . I be sure that in his heart of heart he would like to vote against it tonight . there be five reason to vote against the Bill . the first be that it will not work ; the idea that someone who be not deter by a dangerous journey in a dinghy across the most crowded sea lane in the world will be deter by this flimsy piece of nonsense be just laughable . secondly , the Bill will lead to protract and expensive chaos , because , as the hon . Gentleman say , it sail so close to the wind legally that it will inevitably lead to legal challenge . ironically , since the ouster clause mean that challenge can not be adjudicate in the british court , they will go to the European Court of Human Rights . so the Government be actually replace a UK court with a european court here , and simultaneously declare in the Bill that they be not satisfied that the Bill will withstand a legal challenge base on compatibility with the european convention on human right . that be a recipe for chaos and for expense . thirdly , the Bill seek to reverse by statute law a finding of fact by the high court in the land , the Supreme Court , and it therefore create a legal fiction . its title , the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , give the game away . accord to the Bill , " Rwanda be safe , even if it isn ' t safe , simply because the Government , through the Bill , say it ' s safe . " declare that somewhere be safe do not make it , of itself , safe . we can no more change reality by law or legal diktat than we can by mere imagination . as Bolingbroke say in Richard II , we can not " cloy the hungry edge of appetite by bare imagination of a feast " . we can not make Rwanda safe just by say it , so the declaration in clause 2 that " every decision - maker must conclusively treat the Republic of Rwanda as a safe country " be utterly fatuous . if Rwanda be , either now or in the future , in fact safe , the provision deem it safe be , or will at that point be , otiose or redundant . but if Rwanda be not now or in the future safe , that provision be self - evidently wrong in fact and therefore wrong in principle . so clause 2 be either unnecessary or wrong — or both , simultaneously . fourthly , the Bill establishe in UK law a completely new doctrine of the separation of power , as the ouster clause , which prevent judge and tribunal from supervise the conduct of Ministers in operate the policy they have lay out in statute , put Ministers above the law . it be not the sovereignty of Parliament that the Bill assert , but the sovereignty of Ministers . fundamental to the rule of law be the idea that the Crown — or its modern proxy , the Executive — can not act arbitrarily , even if it use its majority in Parliament to declare that it can . that would be the bad form of Henry VIII Act , equivalent to his Proclamation by the Crown Act 1539 , which deem that all the King ' s proclamation , even though they be not approve by Parliament , shall be observe " as though they be make by Act of Parliament . " fifthly , now be not the time to undermine human right and the rule - base order . the UK rely on foreign court and tribunal be effective . we watch event in Ukraine and declare that the butchery in Bucha or in Mariupol be a war crime . who do we want to adjudicate that ? we want an international court to do so . we rightly lecture China about human right abuse in Xinjiang province and about abide by the United Nations convention on the law of the sea . we invoke Magnitsky sanction against human right abuser around the world . how can we expect other to abide by the rule of law , and their human right and other treaty obligation , if we abandon those thing ? the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) be right about one thing — incidentally , he be wrong about 2004 , because what we do not do at that time be put in an ouster clause meaning that Ministers be free to do what they want . those who think the Bill should go far will get no help from anyone on this side of the House , in any of the party , in Committee or on Report . as we have hear , if the demand of the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) be to be meet in amendment in Committee or on Report , Rwanda would withdraw , and the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst would withdraw his support for the Bill . I do not know why anyone would vote for this Bill , but vote for it , despite know that it be legally offensive or believe it be fatally flawed , in the desperate hope that the Government will help you amend it , be just delay the inevitable . I say that because the most extraordinary irony of all be that the Prime Minister have have to rely on the Rwandan Government to tell he and his mps that Rwanda will not accept any law that breach international law . Rwanda be theoretically and nominally democratic , but it be , in effect and in actuality , an authoritarian one - party state . that be who be keep we on the straight and narrow legally . just think about that before you vote for this nonsense . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , and I be pleased to hear his strong invocation of the fallacy that we live in a separation of power constitution . we do not ; we live in a constitution of check and balance . we be proud to have an independent judiciary and an independent legal profession underpin the rule of law , which we be all equal under and subject to . we also have a Parliament that be supreme — the " Crown in Parliament " be the phrase . that be why , like my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , I take issue with some of the wording in clause 1 , but that be by the bye . the principle of comity be one that we can ill afford to overlook . what do I mean by that ? I be talk about the mutual respect that have to exist between the different arm of the constitution . this place be sovereign — we derive our sovereignty from the people — but we also have a responsibility to use that in the responsible way . this be not a new challenge ; previous generation have face similar dilemma . I be not go to stand here and minimise the emergency that we face from illegal migration or the challenge that the entire west face from the mass migration of people who might seek a well life and who be either flee war - tear country or come for economic reason . this be an unprecedented challenge for all western democracy . however , such challenge have be face in the past . when we be at war , we have to make very difficult decision in this Parliament to make sure that we strike the right constitutional balance in defend these island against dictatorship , but not in a way that defend we and protect we out of our very freedom . our very liberty itself be at stake , and the way in which we legislate have to be responsible and in line with that respect for our fundamental freedom . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) say , there be a fundamental truth here that we can not avoid : if this Bill be amend to create an utter and complete ouster from any individual - base challenge , that go beyond the parameter of reasonableness and into the sort of legislation that inevitably set up a fistfight , not with international court , but with our very own court . my right hon . and learn Friend be more than aware of the Privacy International case . he know , as well as I do , that there be a dissent judgment in that case by both Jonathan Sumption and Lord Reed , which sum up the situation . it be very finely balanced on the fact of that particular case . contrary to mythology within the Conservative party , my hon . friend and I agree on many of these key issue . he and I would have legislate over the Evans decision about the Prince of Wales ' s letter , because we feel that their lordship go too far . that be an example of this House and this Parliament potentially legislate to correct a legal decision by the court . of course we be entitle to do that and we should do it where the will of Parliament dictate . however , there be a difference between a scenario like that and the one that we face at the moment . without more evidence and work by the Government , to blithely create a deeming provision in the face of a very strong Supreme Court decision against the Government would have be to invite disaster . that be why not only the treaty that have be sign between Rwanda and Britain be crucial , but also the policy statement that have be publish by the Home Secretary today and lay in the House , which I urge all right hon . and hon . member to read . there be no doubt that the fact be evolve and change . we should remind ourselves that when the Supreme Court make its decision it look at the law and the fact as of the summer of last year — some 18 month ago — and we have move on considerably . the new provision be not constitutionally unprecedented . they be unusual , which be why the Government must be restrain . without clause 4 in the Bill , I be afraid that the Government will set up a massive glass jaw to be smash by a court in the future , and to invite the sort of constitutional conflict that any good Conservative would not want to see . we do not want our court be draw into politic . I have spend my career in this place and my political life argue against the politicisation of the judiciary , and I have be the first to bring forward legislation to oust the court ' s jurisdiction . we do so in the Judicial Review and Courts Act 2022 , on the Cart judicial review — my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) finish the job on that . I be more than happy to be robust about the position of this place and the importance of not have undue and capricious interference with the will of Parliament . I be the first person to assert the authority of this place , but I will not be party to legislation that , in effect , invite the court to " come on up , if you ' re hard enough " . that be not the approach that we , as responsible conservative , should take . to echo the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst , if this Bill be to be amend in any way that cross that line , I can not and will not support that . if anything , the Government should be think carefully about ensure that the Bill be engineer to provide as perfect a balance as possible between their obvious right , as a Government , to get their policy object through , to reflect the huge concern of our constituent , but , at the same time , to work within the parameter of our unwritten constitution . today we have a Conservative Government , but what if a Government of another colour be do something that we , as conservative , find mortally offensive ? what would we have to rely upon in the defence of the balance of this constitution ? what would be leave for we to defend against an over - mighty socialist Government ? not a lot . yes , it be about principle , but at the end we must not lose sight of the fact that as conservative it be our constitutional duty to maintain that balance . remember comity , Mr Deputy Speaker , and we will not go wrong . I say sincerely that it be a genuine pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . he give a characteristically thoughtful speech for Second Reading and , more interestingly , lay down several marker for future stage , should we get to that point . this be a most interesting and unusual second reading debate ; we be see play out in front of we a tripartite discussion between one side of the Government , another side of the Government and the Treasury Bench . it be a remarkable spectacle to observe , albeit not a particularly seemly one . I be strike by the reliance that the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) place on the reference make by the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) to proceeding in relation to the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants , etc . ) Act 2004 . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman observe , that be where the concept of safe country be introduce . the list of safe country include all the EU country except Croatia , plus Norway , Iceland and later Switzerland . it be another piece of legislation that restrict the access of right to appeal for those whose asylum claim have be unsuccessful . there be perhaps lesson to be learn for we all in how that line of legislation have develop ever since . the endure lesson I take be not that that Act be introduce by a Labour Government — a Government that have David Blunkett as Home Secretary — but that the Bill be oppose , with some controversy at the time , by the then Conservative Opposition . they describe it as " clumsy and draconian " . they be absolutely right about that and , many year later , we can see exactly where that sort of legislation have take we . what be it about the conservative party of 2023 that now find that sort of legislation so attractive ? let we not forget that we be deal with the consequence of the refusal of this government to prosecute the case for safe and legal route . why do we not find people from Ukraine or Hong Kong try to cross the channel in small boat ? it be because we offer they safe and legal route . the Rwanda scheme be unworkable — we know that because it have never be make to work — and the barrier be well rehearsed , but every time they be thwart , the response of this Government be to throw a foot - stamp tantrum . anyone who ever have any doubt about the depth and scale of Tory self - entitlement can see it lay bare here today . the Bill be not about make the system work or provide an effective deterrent ; it be simply about try to bring together a disparate range of force within their own party . how many will Rwanda take over the five year of the agreement ? the only reliable information about that come from the Rwandans themselves : it will be a few hundred . what sort of deterrent effect will that have ? everything that we know about the Bill and the cost of the scheme come not from the Home Office , but from the Rwandan Government . it be because of the information that they put into the public domain that we learn about the extra £ 100 million that the Government have submit ; they be never go to tell we . the problem face this policy be manifest and they be not go to be wish away . we should not forget , however , that even with those issue wipe away at a stroke , the Bill and the scheme would still represent a moral vacuum where our asylum system should be . it be wrong in the practicality , but it be also wrong on the principle . it be a liberal value to take personal responsibility and to live up to one ' s obligation . pass on our asylum responsibility to another country be the opposite of that value . it be a step back from the world and a move towards isolationism . it suggest that we have no responsibility to the wide world . much like this Bill ' s rewrite of reality to impose a judgment of safety to Rwanda , these plan would reverse decade of the UK ' s lead the way on the international rule of law and rule - base order , of which we should be so proud . many across the House , have boast about global Britain , must now ask themselves whether they really want to turn we into fortress Britain . the Bill suggest a grim and illiberal mentality that be a far cry from the confidence that our country use to project , and that , Mr Deputy Speaker , be why we should reject it this evening . have be the Home Secretary who negotiate the original migration and economic development partnership , I find it quite odd to hear some of the comment in this debate , and particularly those appalling one that run down the country of Rwanda . the partnership with Rwanda be establish as a world - lead and innovative way to tackle the challenge cause by the mass migration and displacement of people . it be carefully design with our friend in the Rwandan Government to do one thing that no one in this House have mention today : to raise the international bar on the treatment of asylum seeker and to do so with compassion and support when it come to their resettlement . astonishingly , while member , particularly those on the Opposition Benches , have be talk down the Government of Rwanda for the past 20 month , the country have in fact already support and resettle 130 , 000 refugee through scheme establish with the UNHCR and through international convention . will the right hon . Lady give way ? as the hon . Gentleman well know , there be no time for I to give way . effectively , such resettlement scheme involve third country be the type that we need to deal with the awful , abusive and illegal trade in people smuggle . the awful comment that I have hear thus far about Rwanda and this scheme leave a stain on this House . we have a moral imperative to raise the bar and , effectively , to look at how we can be well as a Government at address these issue . when I negotiate and agree the partnership in April 2022 , we all know that it would face criticism and legal challenge , and the Government of the day be prepare for that . I say it at the time and in fact we give some clear statement in the House as to the step that we would take forward . a year ago , the High Court find the plan to be lawful . the Court of Appeal rule against the policy , cite concern over the issue of refoulement , which be well know . importantly , as the Supreme Court have since emphasise , the principle of the policy as well as the commitment give by the Rwandan Government to make the partnership work , be all fine and sound , but some operational measure need to go far . the Government have since outline they both in this Bill and through statement they have make in this House , which would help to make the scheme viable . it be fair to say that we all bear the scar of this debate , and we hear my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) speak about that . I do not envy those on the Front Bench right now . we have have a constant merry - go - round of legal challenge — whether through our own domestic court , or through interference from elsewhere , by which I be refer to rule 39 . I have experience of deal with rule 39 ! there be organisation , campaigner and lawyer who will do everything possible to frustrate the will of this House and the will of the democratically elect Government , because , at the end of the day , that be what we be . we have to rise against these dogmatic belief because , quite frankly , there be too many organisation and individual who be get in the way and effectively let more claim go to the court . there be measure , include some from the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , which have not be implement , include the one - stop shop . they would save the court a lot of time and effort by bring forward the single claim that this House vote through , just last year , which mean that repeat claim would not keep on go back to the court . I say to those on the Front Bench that it be really important that we press on the Government to go backwards in order to go forwards . we need to bring in these measure that have already be pass through act of Parliament — dare I say it , there may be more in legislation that have come in since . I ask the Minister , in respond to the debate , to tell we how the Government will act and prepare for any future challenge that may come through this legislation . how will they stand up to the unmeritorious claim that keep come through the court — for example , those base on modern - day slavery , which we have hear about far too much ? we put measure in the Nationality and Borders Act to deal with that . we have see the summary of the legal advice that the Government have receive and read much of the other expert opinion . I seek assurance from the Minister that he and his colleague be aware of the risk of challenge . how that be mitigate as the Bill pass through the House , in the conventional way , will be crucial . we can not have more case bogge down in the court . too many of we have work through that . we have a major problem with detention in this country , which include a lack of detention capability . there be plan in the " New Plan for Immigration " to introduce greek - style reception centre . I press the Minister and the Home Office to work with the Prime Minister and the Treasury to bring forward those site ; otherwise , we will see more Bibby Stockholms and more Wethersfield site , which frankly be not the answer . those greek - style reception centre will help with the fast - tracking of processing claim and the fast - tracking of the removal of individual who have no right to be in this country . I also press the Minister and the Home Secretary to adopt an integrated approach , so that we can deal with this national issue . the public vote for change and we want to deliver that change for they . speak as a lawyer — [ interruption . ] yes , there be still one or two of we leave . I must say that I feel quite queasy read the Bill . it be not the kind of thing that I would expect this Parliament to be consider . I detect the same queasiness among some of the lawyer who have speak from the Government Benches , include the former Justice Secretary and the current Chair of the Justice Committee . apparently , they too find read the Bill a queasy experience . I agree with the former Tory Law Officer , Lord Garnier , who use to be in this House , when he call this Bill political and legal nonsense . it designate Rwanda as a safe country , but by do so it seek to reverse a conclusion of the Supreme Court on the fact . it be perfectly reasonable to legislate if the Supreme Court strike down a policy , but one normally legislate to change a policy , not to purport to change the fact , or to say that the fact , which have not change , be other than what the Court find they to be . that be the first thing that make I feel queasy . the Bill go on to try to prohibit any legal challenge that may argue that Rwanda , have be deem safe in this way , be in fact unsafe . it say that every decision maker " must conclusively treat the Republic of Rwanda as a safe country " , notwithstanding any evidence that may come forward to the contrary . give that the evidence that have already come forward , which the Supreme Court deal with in its judgment , lead the Court to say unanimously that it be not a safe country , it be worry that we seem to think we can simply legislate to change the fact . the Bill allow a very narrow range of claim , and this come to the heart of the argument between those on the Government Benches who wish to beef it up even far to exclude any kind of legal challenge , and those , perhaps on the one - nation side of the conservative party , who be try to put a line in the sand to say that they will not accept any further amendment . the narrow range of claim allow be those base on " compelling evidence relate specifically to the person ' s particular individual circumstance " , and even those sort of claim be exclude in some circumstance relate to refoulement . exclude court , by Act of Parliament , from consider relevant evidence ; exclude they from take account of judgment and law , include domestic legislation ; fetter their judgment as the Bill seek to do ; and give Ministers power to ignore injunction — take together , that be tantamount to undermine the rule of law . it be certainly not respect the rule of law , as I would expect parliamentarian in this place to do — and certainly as I would expect the Government of the day to seek to do , if they wish to uphold our international reputation . it beggar belief that the Government ' s response to the loss of their policy in the Supreme Court be to ask this House to legislate just to declare , " it ' s all fine anyway ; let ' s carry on . " as other have point out , even if we be to start send asylum seeker to Rwanda as a result of this Bill ' s pass into law , the policy be design for a few hundred people at the most , or less than 1 % of people arrive in the UK . the permanent secretary at the Home Office be very clear when he say there be no evidence that it would work as a deterrent , whereas most of what we hear from Conservative Members be that that be the very purpose of the legislation — it be suppose to be a deterrent . so there we have it : the policy be a Tory shibboleth , which have become an article of faith for some element of the Tory party — the " five family " , as I think they have call themselves , somewhat menacingly . we see the Tory psychodrama unfold yet again to decide the fate of the late unelected Tory Prime Minister to be threaten with defenestration by some of the more right - wing element of those five family . the country deserve well . as my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) set out in her excellent speech , time and again the Government go for gimmick and infighting over basic competence and good administration . it be four year since the Tories promise to end boat crossing in six month . almost a year after the current Prime Minister promise again to stop the boat , 30 , 000 more people have arrive . hotel usage be go up , and not down as the Home Secretary claim ; it be at 56 , 000 at the moment , 10 , 000 more than when the Prime Minister promise to end hotel use . criminal gang be not be deter . conviction for people smuggler have drop by 36 % since 2010 and the criminal gang be make more money than ever . the backlog of undetermined case remain at 165 , 000 , despite the pm ' s promise to abolish the backlog of initial asylum claim by the end of this year . it be folly to continue with this farcical fail joke of a policy when what be really need be competent , good administration . why not put the money be waste on this policy into deal with the actual problem ? if the Tory party and the Government try to do that rather more successfully than they have manage in 13 year , they might get some credit from the opposition and from the nation , but there be precious little evidence that there be go to be any of that . we all know that our constituent want action on illegal migration . if we conduct survey and read our email , we know that it be one of the most important issue face our constituent . but it be not new that the political party be debate and make promise on it . the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) conclude her speech by bemoan the lack of action and change in a year and in four year . when she delve seriously back , she go back 14 year . let we go back a bit far . in 1997 , such be the issue of asylum and migration that it merit a mere two paragraph in the conservative party general election manifesto , and the same in the Labour party manifesto . in 2001 , with Labour newly in office , the conservative manifesto state : " the problem here be bad than anywhere else in Europe because of labour ' s mismanagement . the Government have preside over massive delay in processing application and admit that thousand of those whose case be reject simply disappear and never leave . " that be we , in 2001 . we say : " we will ensure that those whose claim be reject be quickly deport by a new Removals Agency . conservative will restore common sense to Britain ' s asylum procedure . by 2005 , Labour be promise to establish a point - base system , state : " we will ensure that only skilled worker be allow to settle long - term in the UK , with english language test for everyone who want to stay permanently and an end to chain migration . " in 2010 , Labour say : " People need to know that immigration be control , that the rule be firm and fair , " and seek a mandate for a promise " australian - style point - base system " . by 2010 , we be promise — we might , if we listen carefully , hear the echo from down the corridor in the other place — that we would " take step to take net migration back to the level of the 1990 — ten of thousand a year , not hundred of thousand . " by 2015 , Labour be talk about how " broken promise erode trust " and say — there be echo of this in what the shadow Home Secretary say — that they would recruit 1 , 000 new border staff and speed up the process . both political party have make promise to the british people at election time , and both have then tell the british public that it be the other party ' s fault that the problem have not be address . when we look back , between 1964 and 1997 the UK ' s net migration figure be never low than minus 87 , 000 or high than plus 58 , 000 . now , it would be regard as a modest year — a low figure — if net migration be in the several hundred of thousand . all the while , accord to the ONS , more than 8 million people in this country be economically inactive . I will support the Government today , because I think that they deserve credit for try to deliver on their promise to the british people on the boat . we in this House should unite for once , to seek to deliver on the successive promise that we have all make to the british people . when we look at country where those promise have be break , we see that unsavoury , dangerous people have step into the void . I fear that , if we do not once and for all say what we will do and deliver it for the british people , we could see such a fate in this country . in my Bournemouth West constituency , we have four hotel occupy by people wait for their asylum application to be determine . I be clear that it be grossly unfair on they to be trap in that limbo , and yes , we should do everything we can to accelerate the process , but if they have no right to be in this country , it be equally fair on the british people and british taxpayer that those people get that determination and be return to their country of origin to get on with their life . we be see far too many people come here without the necessary check and then do thing in this country that be deeply unwelcome . I cite the example of Tom Roberts , a poor young man who be brutally murder in my constituency . his murderer say when he come here that he be 14 , so he be put into a secondary school . it turn out that he be 18 and that he have murder two other people in the country that he be in before he come here . we owe it to the british people to be clear and direct . I will support the Government , and I will support the opposition if they become the Government , to finally keep faith with the british people and with those who come here with the right to be here , in order to fulfil our ancient pledge to offer sanctuary and freedom to those who be persecute . but we have to be straight with the british people . if we say that we will do something , we have to do it , and we must use every mean at our disposal to deliver directly for the british people . I be glad that the debate have provide an opportunity for former immigration Ministers to come together for some therapy and to share a little experience about the principle at the heart of the Bill . I serve as immigration Minister for nearly two and a half year — in fact , I think that I be the long - serve former immigration Minister still in the House — so I know a little about what it take to deliver an immigration system , and I have sympathy with some , albeit not many , of the comment that I have hear from the Government Benches this afternoon . I will say three quick thing about deterrence , international agreement and stay true to our value in these debate . I be the Minister who introduce the UK Border Agency . I bring UKvisas from the Foreign Office and custom from the Treasury into the Home Office to create a £ 2 billion agency with a simple principle at its core : that border security in the 21st century can not simply be about defend the border at the shore of our country . in this day and age , one have to operate a triple border . we have to export the border as far away from these shore as possible ; we need to have a strong border at those shore ; and then we need to have strong in - country enforcement . the only way in which we can get that system to work , and to work effectively , be to fund it . global migration pressure be grow sharply . as the right hon . member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) rightly flag , 184 million people globally now live outside the border of their birth , and there be 37 million refugee . those migration pressure have be grow exponentially since the fall of the Berlin wall , and will continue to grow exponentially in the year to come , not least as the ravage of extreme weather drive more and more people in fragile , conflict and violent country into poverty . People will always go that extra mile to seek a new life abroad . if we be to have strong border for this country , yes we must have deterrence , but the deterrence be the speed of justice . it be not the prospect of override domestic law and ship people off to some remote deportation centre . that be why Home Office official be right to say that the Bill and its objective provide very little deterrence , because the Bill do not accelerate the process of render a decision on a person ' s case and , if they have no basis to be in this country , remove they very rapidly . under the administration that I run , we know that we have to transform the speed of deportation , which be why we move heaven and earth to ensure that one person who have no right to be here be remove every eight minute . that be the kind of pace that be need to send the very clear message that , if a person be find to have no right to be here , they will be remove very quickly . that be the most effective form of deterrence . the House have to confront the reality . give a choice on how to spend £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money , do we spend it on build a remote processing centre in a far - away place , which our own official tell we be will have no deterrent effect whatsoever , or do we invest it in create a system that take decision quickly and remove people quickly if they have no right to be here ? the first thing one learn as an immigration Minister be that we can not remove people unless we have agreement with other country to take they . this be not a country that just drop people out of the back of aeroplane if they have no right to be here : we have to get they new travel document , and to have other country that agree to take they . frankly , the most important country with which we need those kind of agreement be our close neighbour in Europe , so if we be about to destroy — wipe out and consign to history — decade ' worth of human right agreement with our close neighbour , how easy do we really think it will be to get return agreement of any type with those european country ? it be go to get hard and hard , because we will be see not as good partner , but bad partner . that will not help we to get in place the kind of return agreement we be go to need if we be to keep our border and immigration system work well in the 21st century . my final point be about the Human Rights Act . it be a terrible sight to see the party of Churchill depart so quickly from one of Churchill ' s proud legacy . the european convention on human right and the Council of Europe be not idea that be dream up out of thin air . they be idea lead , promulgate and deliver by Winston Churchill . that vision — his vision — of a great charter to bring peace to a war - divide continent be base on our experience of protection against torture and against unfair imprisonment and protection of life . those be idea that we in this country pioneer , from Magna Carta through the Bill of Rights to the european convention on human right . the idea that the conservative party will now lead we in depart from that tradition be a very sorry state of affair . we in this country be the pioneer of human right — we celebrate that anniversary with the United Nations at the weekend . it be something we should hold dear . order . I call David Jones . [ interruption . ] David Jones ? oh , thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be sorry ; I could not hear you with all the excitement . unusually , the aim of this Bill be set out in clause 1 , which be " to prevent and deter unlawful migration , and in particular migration by unsafe and illegal route " . that be an aim with which I be sure not a single hon . Member could disagree . illegal migration be possibly one of the great scourge of our age . it be evil , it be internationally organise and it be socially and economically damaging to this country . the Rwanda scheme be an inventive and innovative plan . it establish , or aim to establish , an effective deterrent to illegal migrant — to make they think twice about make that perilous crossing across the channel . unfortunately , it founder on the rock of the Supreme Court last month , when the Court hold that Rwanda could not be consider a safe country , because there be substantial ground to believe that migrant would face the risk of refoulement , or of be transfer to their country of origin or a third country . the treaty that the Government have conclude do provide reassurance in that regard . it address the problem identify by the Court by make specific provision that no relocate individual may be remove from Rwanda other than to the United Kingdom . give the dualist nature of our constitution , the treaty need to be complement by domestic legislation , and this Bill be that legislation . it be critical that the Bill should function as the Government intend , which be to facilitate the removal of illegal migrant to Rwanda without legal impediment . the question be : do it do so effectively ? the Bill have be describe as " the tough piece of … migration legislation ever put forward by a UK Government " , and there be no doubt that it do toughen the current regime . however , it be debatable whether it be sufficiently watertight to amount to a significant deterrent to the boat by facilitate the flight to Rwanda . the Bill have be consider by the legal panel of the European Research Group , and I commend its report to hon . member . it note that significant amendment to the Bill be require to improve it , but it express concern that those amendment may well be outside the scope of the Bill . one of the most significant problem be that the Bill contain no restriction on legal challenge against removal to Rwanda on any ground other than that Rwanda be not a safe country , and that clearly reflect the fact that the Bill be a direct response to the judgment of the Supreme Court last month . if the Bill do successfully block challenge base on argument that Rwanda be not safe — the treaty certainly help in that regard — it be likely that those advise illegal migrant will focus more on pursue challenge of another kind . we should consider clause 4 , which specifically provide that legal challenge to removal may be make if argument be put forward that Rwanda be not a safe country for individual migrant base on compelling evidence relate to their personal circumstance . the opportunity for the abuse of that provision be obvious . migrant may well be advise by people smuggler or by unscrupulous lawyer , because there be some , that they should oppose removal to Rwanda on spurious ground such as a non - existent mental health condition , a fear of flying or whatever . give that as many as 500 illegal migrant , at the height of the summer , arrive on these shore every day — twelve hundred . I stand correct by someone who know about it . in that case , it be not difficult to envisage a situation in which tribunal and court may be overwhelmed . I believe that this Bill require amendment , and I be invite my hon . and learn Friend the Minister to say , when he wind up this evening , that the Government be open to amendment . I hear what my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) have to say about scope , but I want the Minister to engage with colleague to see if this Bill may be make well . at the moment , numerous deficiency have be identify in the report of the so - call star chamber which I believe will render this Bill inoperable and ineffective . the last thing we want to do as a House be expend a lot of time and a lot of agony to put in place a Bill that do not result in the flight to Rwanda and the deterrence that we need to illegal migrant . I hope that my hon . and learn Friend will respond positively to the suggestion when he wind up . I know that a lot of colleague will listen carefully to what he have to say , and I think they will welcome what may well be regard as a change of tone on the part of the Government . this Bill might be call the safety of Rwanda Bill , but it be really the safety of the future of the Tory party Bill . it be basically schrodinger ' s legislation — all thing to all Tories . minister might say that it do not breach international law in order to make it a dead cat of a Bill for some , but need to say that it will breach international law to make it work for a dead cat of a Tory party , scramble to find a reason to provide for such a policy . I will be vote against this legislation , to stand up for Britain ' s proud tradition of human right and to urge this place to learn from the mess create by the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill , which replicate similar challenge . it be extraordinary that the Government be present we with a piece of legislation that say on its first page that the Secretary of State can not confirm whether it be compliant with the rule of law and our convention obligation that we all sign up to support . many member on the Government Benches have be listen to Oscar Wilde when he say : " the study of law be sublime , and its practice vulgar . " legislation be not vulgar — it be imperative to democracy . they should listen more to Winston Churchill , who say that the idea of a charter of human right be for it to be " guard by freedom and sustain by law " . this Bill will not sustain those law , but diminish they . we should be proud of the fact that we be the first nation to ratify the convention that set up the European Court of Human Rights , at a time when thousand of people be flee persecution and in recognition that the world do not always get thing right . we remember the child on the Kindertransport who come to this country , but never their parent who we leave behind . it be unimaginable in our own world to manage these issue on our own . that be exactly why we sign up to international treaty — to share the burden , to make the refugee system manageable and to deal with the fact that 60 % of people on those boat be be grant asylum because they have a well - found fear of persecution . ship a few of they off to Rwanda — just 5 % — be at good an expensive distraction and at bad a deception . the only thing that this piece of legislation will do be make a bad situation bad . clause 5 ( 3 ) provide that the Court can not take an interim measure into account , even if a Minister have not block it . the Bill also break our commitment to observe rule 39 interim measure . in do that , we breach our obligation under article 13 of the ECHR , which require member state to provide effective remedy for the infringement of right in domestic law . in layman ' s term , Parliament be be ask to commit the UK to a process that breach our obligation to protect people from torture . no other country have ever try to challenge rule 39 jurisdiction . they may not have comply with they , but we be lead on a completely new departure . that will do untold damage to our status around the world . it will also damage other treaty that we have sign up to . the trade and co - operation agreement state explicitly that if we end judicial co - operation , we undermine the agreement . the Good Friday agreement state explicitly that deny access to domestic court for individual on the basis of the ECHR contradict its own commitment . I be sure that our colleague from Northern Ireland have recognise that we can not override legislation in this way . that mean there will be countless legal challenge . we have already hear about the million of pound we have spend on a scheme where not a single refugee have be send to Rwanda for processing . we have already spend £ 2 million on legal fee fight this process , and that be on top of the extra £ 150 million we have already pledge to spend on it . no wonder a ministerial direction have be require to uphold this policy . Parliament can pass any law it like state that thing should happen . we could pass law say that there should not be smoke on the street of Paris , but it do not mean it will happen , and that be the legal fallacy at the heart of this Bill , along with the Home Office permanent secretary say there be no deterrent effect . I could pass legislation to say I can sing , but if member come to karaoke with I , they would quickly realise the truth . the cold , hard reality of the law be that the Bill do not change the fact that the Supreme Court identify , and only the people who think it be a deterrent think that they can somehow keep say to the court , " no , no , no — Rwanda be safe , " like some kind of Vicky Pollard approach to make legislation . it be time the british public wake up to what this Government be do . we can not amend ourselves out of this challenge without , on the one side , Tweedledum and , on the other , Tweedledee argue anymore . this be a mess . it ruin our international standing , it be more money be waste and it be more time in this place be waste , when we could go after the trafficker and those exploit vulnerable people flee persecution . we should speak up for the value that , post war , we stand for in the world , include support people who be at risk of persecution . this legislation will not stop the boat , it will not stop the rot and it will not stop the Tory party tear itself apart . Britain deserve well . with this side of the House , it will get it . let I start by say how much I support the objective of the Bill . I pay tribute to the Government for the very significant improvement on the status quo that the Bill represent . there be , of course , some practical issue with its operation , which have be well rehearse on this side of the House . as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say so well early , what really matter be whether the Bill will work , and what working look like be be able to detain and remove sufficient number of illegal migrant quickly enough that they decide that the journey across the channel be not worth it . that mean ensure that we have the capacity in the system . I recognise the progress that the Government have make to improve capacity but , as my right hon . Friend say , we have significant concern about the system get gum up with legal claim that be still allowable under the Bill . we be also concerned about the potential continued operation of rule 39 order from the Strasbourg Court . the practical problem with the Bill , which be real and need to be address in its further stage , derive from a fundamental point of principle . I really do welcome the noise make in the Bill that would gladden the heart of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) — it be rather like play Bill Cash bingo : there be " notwithstanding " this , " supremacy " that , and " sovereignty " the other , which be all extremely welcome . nevertheless , these word do not apply in the crucial place . the Bill still rest the right of individual claim on international law , the case law of the European Court and the operation of the ECHR in our own country . let I say quickly that I be not , at this stage , argue that we should depart from the echr , although I think we could do that . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) speak as if our leave the ECHR would mean depart from the honourable and ancient british tradition of liberty , but as he imply in his speech , we would be return to it if we be to leave the echr and rest our liberty on the statute of Parliament and the common law of our court . nevertheless , if the European Court be to disagree with the action of the Government and issue a substantive ruling to that effect , we would begin a conversation with it about that and decide how exactly we might comply or , if we have to , depart . let I turn to the Supreme Court judgment from last month , because it be very important that we try to analyse the implication of that ruling . it be true , as my hon . friend the Member for Stone say , that the Supreme Court ruling explicitly acknowledge that UK law be supreme over international law . in one of the case it consider , it make that point in principle , but , except in that one case , it do not make it in practice . the Court rule against the Government on ground that derive from european and international law , as well as other domestic law . the Court suggest that , in practice , international law trump domestic law . have do that , it then insert itself into foreign policy — it presume its right to judge a foreign Government . it say it would decide for itself whether the Rwandan Government ' s undertaking could be rely upon . the Court essentially give itself special investigatory power to make judgment about another country . it describe , rather patronisingly , the inadequacy of the rwandan system — as if that be any business of a british court . while it totally disregard the UK Government — it say " the executive enjoy no constitutional prerogative " in that regard — it give what it call " particular importance " to the opinion of a United Nations agency . so it insert itself into foreign policy and draw down the authority of international law and global agency , but where in its understanding be the role of the UK Government ? where be its understanding of the role of this place , Parliament , which set our law ? I want on reflect briefly on what " the rule of law " mean , because the phrase be invoke constantly by critic of the Bill and of our Rwanda policy as if international law trump domestic law . it be not the case that the rule of law imply some hierarchy of law ascend from parish council and local byelaw up to the global law . the rule of law mean the supremacy of Parliament and the operation of the common law — case law make by our court . my hon . friend the Member for Stone cite all the distinguished jurist : Hoffmann , Bingham and den . he do not mention Hale , but he do mention Reed , the President of the Supreme Court . international law be of course important , and I totally recognise its enormous value in keep the peace in the world and enable we to deal with other country , but it apply to the international plane . let I touch briefly on human right law , which have be mention . there be an assumption that the Human Rights Act have some kind of superior status in our law . that be often see to be the case , but that be problematic . the right and liberty of individual — citizen and foreign national , whether here legally or illegally — be properly protect by statute and case law . I regret that we have an unsatisfactory Bill before we . I can not undertake to support it tonight . I hope that the Government will agree to pull the Bill and allow we to work with they and colleague across the House to produce a well bill ; one that respect parliamentary sovereignty and satisfy the legitimate concern of colleague about vulnerable individual . for instance , we can do well on safe and legal route . we should be work together with other country to design a system that respect the sovereignty of Parliament and the legitimate rule of independent nation . this year be the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration of human right . what an irony , and what a shameful indictment of Ministers , that our Government be mark it by put in front of Parliament a Bill to wave aside our human right obligation and the judgment of the high domestic court in the land . this insulting and dangerous legislation attack both human right and our democratic structure . in do so , it both demean and disrespect the role that the UK have play in help to shape the international rule - base order , include its contribution to the drafting and early ratification of the european convention on human right in the aftermath of the horror of world war two . it be state on this shameful Bill ' s very cover that the Government can not say that it comply with the UK ' s obligation under the echr — a terrible admission of this Government ' s willingness to violate the principle that human right be universal and belong to all of we by virtue of our humanity . as other have note , the Bill overturn an authoritative , unanimous Supreme Court judgment base on extensive evidence and make just three week ago . our high domestic court rule that by send refugee to Rwanda , the UK could breach its obligation under the ECHR and other international law such as the refugee convention , the UN convention against torture and the UN international covenant on civil and political right , as well as domestic law . in seek to oust the jurisdiction of our domestic court by forbid they from make assessment of fact and disapplye the Human Rights Act , the Bill be constitutionally exceptional and provocative . it explicitly disapplie multiple section of that landmark Act , include basic minimum standard that protect we all , leave barely any room for judicial scrutiny . court would be bar from consider whether remove an individual to Rwanda could result in removal to a country where they would face torture or inhuman and degrading treatment . what kind of Government would want the court to ignore that and undermine the separation of power that be fundamental to UK democracy ? this ugly Bill also attack interim measure : a vital human right tool under international law issue on an exceptional basis in extreme circumstance where individual face a real risk of serious and irreversible harm . it both enable UK Ministers to decide unilaterally whether the UK should comply with interim measure and prohibit UK court from have regard to they when consider any case relate to a removal decision to Rwanda . to try to justify this cynical and sinister attack on the high court in the UK , the Prime Minister have start to say that " Parliament be sovereign . " obviously , Parliament can pass whatever law it want , but we have court so that everyone , include this Government , act with respect for the law that Parliament have pass . as other have say , this Bill simply will not work . its so - call deterrent be not a deterrent to someone flee torture or persecution , who have already put their life at risk by take to one of the busy shipping lane in dangerous , inflatable boat . the Bill have nothing to do with that , in any case ; it be a performative piece of cruelty by a die Administration and a grotesque waste of money that be neither practical nor strategic . most important of all , the outsourcing of our human right obligation to a third country be downright immoral . to immorality we can add absurdity . seek to legislate by assertion that Rwanda be safe be as ridiculous as it be dangerous . the Government can not sign a quick treaty one week and legislate the next to make a country safe , when the high court in the land have say just the opposite . the fact on the ground be what matter . it feel bizarre to have to say it , but apparently necessary : legislation to say that Parliament believe something to be true do not make it so . fix the fact on which the law be to be apply be the kind of think that dangerous conspiracy be base on . as Tom Hickman KC say in a paper for Institute for Government : " if the Government consider that the treaty have eliminate the real risk of refoulement then it should seek to persuade the court of that , not parliament . " it should not need say that when the UK Government sign a treaty , they should stick to it . they now have the embarrassment of be school by the Rwandan Government , who , despite their poor human right record , be send out warning shot that even they will pull out of this shoddy deal if the UK Government breach international law to implement it . I will vote against Second Reading tonight , because there be no tweak or amendment that can improve something that be rotten to its core . the Bill be a doomed and draconian attempt to reassert the Prime Minister ' s fragile claim to a non - existent authority , but it have serious consequence and set an extremely dangerous precedent . these be deeply dangerous time in this country , and they be make more dangerous by this Government . we have already see the suppression of the right to strike and to protest , and other democratic principle and standard seriously erode . now we have this flagrant attack on human right , on our court and on the separation of power in this country . I call upon this Government to abandon their cruel , immoral and unworkable Rwanda plan , and to re - establish the UK ' s good standing as a member of the ECHR and international community . I will start by say simply that I be not a massive fan of this policy . I suspect that will not come as a great surprise to the former Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , or the former Immigration Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . none the less , it be crucial . we need a deterrence policy . whether or not it be workable be what sit at the heart of this debate . as a member of the Home Affairs Committee , I have hear the message time and again — whether from law enforcement , official on the frontline , Ministers or our friend and neighbour in Europe — that deterrence have to work hand in hand with a fair asylum system . the idea that the solution be simply to open up more safe and legal route be for the bird . we need they , but we also need hard deterrence to prevent abuse of our asylum system . when the policy be first announce , french official tell the Committee that there be a spike in asylum claim in France , because people fear what would happen to they if they make that irregular boat journey from France and end up in another country . when the plane fail to take off , the spike in claim level off . we have be to the beach in Calais and speak to asylum seeker in camp near the coast . we have speak to our compatriot in Europe . it be clear that country across Europe , and around the globe , be cast around for a solution to the challenge that we all face . million of people be on the move due to the effect of climate change and war . we be not on our own here . I gently suggest to friend and colleague across the Chamber who think that the Government be tilt at a particularly british windmill that we be not . version of the scheme be be work up across Europe and around the world . while we should be proud of the scheme for Hong Kong resident and people from Ukraine , Afghanistan and Syria , we need a rational asylum system that extend to other who need genuine help . we need to erode our asylum backlog and I give full credit to my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) for the work he put in to do just that . we need to put more work into inculcate citizenship for those who come here . we need a sensible discussion on legal migration and to be proud of the people who want to come , live and work here and set up their family here . number should taper off only once we have gear the system enough to grow our own , not least to support agriculture , tourism , fishery and social care , to avoid cliff edge . but I go back to my main point . we also need a deterrent , one that stand up and say to the criminal gang and the people trafficker that their trade will not work , and that they can try to put people on boat across the channel , but that those boat will be intercept and their journey will not end in Britain . do that will break the trade and make the boat unviable , and that be a goal that we share across the Chamber . the key issue the Supreme Court raise be whether Rwanda be consider to be a safe country in which to process asylum claim , and whether individual send there be at risk of refoulement . the Court argue that they be at risk . the measure in the new treaty , include independent monitoring and the new appeal body with a Commonwealth co - president should put those concern to bed . the belt - and - brace approach the Government be take be proportionate . " it be consistent with the rule of law , go as far as it can , but no far , within the bound of our international treaty obligation . " those be not my word , but those of Lord Wolfson . I may dislike this policy and indeed the reality of where we find ourselves , but vote for this measure be the good route to stop the boat , save life and crush the business model of the criminal gang who be exploit some of the most vulnerable people in the world . I will support the Bill tonight . I have be in this House on many occasion when we have discuss migration and it sadden I that invariably the narrative from Conservative Members be negative and pejorative . immigration be always couch as a problem to be deal with , rather than an opportunity to be embrace . I long for the day when we can have a positive discussion about the history of people move from one country to another , which , almost everywhere , have be to the benefit of the country they go to . we can also have a positive discussion about fulfil our international and humanitarian obligation to people seek sanctuary , particularly as with our 200 year of imperial history we have a great responsibility for that . the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) be not in his place , but some of his remark sadden I ; I think he will come to regret talk of immigration as " this great scourge " and suggest that any alternative to his proposal will result in a tenfold increase in boat come across the channel . as an attempt to weaponise and politicise a very sensitive subject for political gain , it be very distressing . if there be a problem with migration policy in this country , it be a problem make by this Conservative Government . let I give three example of that . first , the backlog have rise to a shocking level of almost 100 , 000 people wait to have their application determine . that be a simple management failure by the Government of not deploy enough resource to do the job in front of they . that statement be incontrovertible , because the evidence be there that when they do employ more people and more caseworker , the number turn and begin to come down . today , they have 2 , 500 caseworker processing claim . the money they have already spend on this expensive Rwanda gimmick would pay for three time the number of caseworker . imagine what could be do with that capacity to deal with the problem . secondly , everybody agree that it be completely unsatisfactory that people who claim asylum in this country and want to make their case should be lock away for month on end in hotel accommodation that be not fit for their need . it be a problem for the community in which those hotel be locate , and it be also a problem for the people who be force to remain in that substandard and inadequate accommodation while their claim be process . however , it be a choice make by the Government to treat those people as guilty until prove innocent , and to detain they in this way . an alternative system would be to look at a claim , and in the event of a determination that it could not be assess within a number of day , to grant a temporary permit allow the applicant to remain in the country and to work while he or she be here . what would happen if that be the arrangement ? well , first of all the hotel bill would disappear , but , more important , people would seek the support of their family , friend and community already in this country and that of funded voluntary organisation , at a much less cost to the taxpayer than be currently the case , and — even more important — they would start do work and pay tax in this country . it have be suggest to I that if we do that , all the people would fall through the system because it would be impossible to control they . I put it to the Home Office that it have already lose 90 , 000 record , and I rather fear that if people be allow to work here , the HMRC system might be rather well at enable we to know where they be than the current regime . thirdly , there be the question of the boat . there be talk about disrupt the trafficker ' business plan , but it be gifted to they by the Government , who close down the legal route to this country , thereby open up these business opportunity . the good way to get rid of the trafficker would be to ensure that there be a system in place whereby anyone who wish to apply for asylum in this country can do so and their application be determined if , efficaciously and swiftly , a judgment be make and the application be either reject or accept . we talk as though everyone come here in these boat be illegal and undeserving . even accord to the late figure , three quarter of those applicant have be grant asylum because they have a legitimate claim . on the Rwanda policy itself , I refer to it early as a gimmick , but let I deal briefly with the point about deterrence . we know that the Rwanda scheme will make an infinitesimal contribution , with perhaps 100 or 200 place for people be deport to Rwanda . in recent year , 300 people have die make the journey across the channel . will someone please tell I why , if people be prepared to make that very dangerous journey in spite of the risk of death , they would stop make it because of the much less risk of be deport to Rwanda ? the truth be that these people have a right and a need to come here and apply to be here , and if we be humanitarian at all , we would respect that . the small boat be of particular concern to I , as the Member represent Dover and Deal , because it be in my constituency that they arrive . Dover be , in a very real sense , on the frontline of this crisis , and it be on the shore of the english channel that I have stand too often in sadness for the many life that have be lose , and lose unnecessarily , because each and every person be safe already in France . if we stop the boat , we save life — and we do not just save life ; we cut crime , and we put a stop to the criminal gang who smuggle people . that bring I to the key question that be before the House today . will the Bill stop the boat ? what we know be that it be clear from the recent Supreme Court judgment that the Court do not think Rwanda be acceptable , and I fear that in its current form the Bill will not change that position , not least because the tone of the Court ' s decision be so emphatic . it certainly will not do so in the next few month , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) explain so clearly and passionately . we have make substantial progress this year in reduce the number of small boat arrival , and I thank my right hon . friend for the work that he and the Government have do in that regard . it be a fact that diplomacy can sometimes succeed where all else fail , and that be the experience when it come to stop the lorry smuggling . under Lord Cameron , extraordinary arrangement be make with France to take joint action to stop the lorry , just as we need to stop the boat now . then , it be say that no deal could be do , yet it be . that be why , follow the Supreme Court judgment , we must turn to diplomacy once again , with a cross - channel agreement to return people to France rather than Rwanda . indeed , Italy have do a deal with Albania and there be nothing to prevent the UK and France from do a similar deal . we must look at all option that can work , because it be only when migrant and people smuggler alike know that they can not succeed through this cross - channel route that this small boat crisis will finally come to an end . we should not stop there , because we need to modernise asylum as well . Asylum and the refugee convention be create in a very different time , and it must be recognise that the movement of very large number of people now involve journey that be all too often incredibly dangerous . that need to be address not just by the UK but by the west as a whole . a reformed international law would seek to keep people displace by conflict close to their home so that they can return and rebuild when the conflict end . these change would help control migration , prevent dangerous journey , save life and keep safe those vulnerable people who be impact by war and other circumstance in their homeland . I have be make the case for a long time that the Government should start international discussion about a new global migration settlement , because the whole House know that this be a concern not just for our country but across Europe as a whole . it be vital that we stop these dangerous journey and that globally the UK should build on our incredible record of provide place of safety close to conflict zone . that be the way to protect people , to save life and to help they rebuild their homeland when conflict end . it would also cut crime by tackle the global illegal people - smuggle criminal network and ruthless criminal gang that , accord to the National Crime Agency , fuel other serious and organised crime from their vast profit . I have stand on the white cliff of Dover with Prime Minister Boris Johnson and with the current Prime Minister . I want to stop the boat , but I be gravely concerned that the Bill in its current form will not do what the Government want . the House might want to reflect that when the immediate former Home Secretary , the former Immigration Minister and the Member for the constituency most directly affect by this crisis — among many other — all say that this Bill may not work and may not deliver what the Government be say it will , those concern ought to be heed . I sincerely hope that whatever happen in the voting today , the Government will consider both operational and diplomatic way forward , for which I and other have be make the case , which could deliver much more quickly the result that we all wish to see in the come month . this be a new low even for this Tory Government . this Bill be spawn by overpromise on immigration over many year by the Conservatives . they be constantly seek to hoodwink people into believe that they be competent enough to deal with this situation . on the balance of evidence , the court have decide that Rwanda be not a safe country for they to send people who be seek asylum to , so the Government have stamp their foot and bring legislation here so that they can legislate to say that something that be wrong be right . that be a new low that I have not experience in all my year in this place . it be a slippery slope when a Government take that sort of power to themselves . where will it stop ? some of the speech make on the Government Benches have raise that question . I understand that there be at least five different family , as I think they be call , over there on the conservative Benches , who all disagree with one another . I think there might be seven . they have their own private version of " Gangs of New York " go on . we will have to have a general election soon because they be go to run out of back into which to put their respective knife . this be the third such piece of legislation that we have have in just two year , and each time the Conservatives have tell we , " this be go to stop the boat . " we have the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which we be tell would stop the boat , and now we have the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . I be impress by the stand the Rwandans have take . without take a single refugee or asylum seeker , they have up the ante threefold . they be give £ 140 million just to go to the table and talk about it . now we be tell the figure be up to £ 400 million and still grow , and Rwanda have not take a single asylum seeker , which be an incredible feat . not only that , but Rwanda will offer only 100 or possibly 200 place a year . this be go to cost £ 2 million per person on the current figure , which be an incredible achievement by the Rwandan Government . I can not understand why Conservative Members be not argue about why the number be so low . they be argue about people be able to take their individual case to court , but they do not seem to be concern that the number of place be so small . the policy be hardly likely to be much of a deterrent when so few people will be send to Rwanda in any one year . the hon . Gentleman be wax eloquent on Rwanda ' s excellent negotiation with the Government . do he agree that the rwandan authority seem to have hoodwink the UN as well ? I will not go down that rabbit hole , if the hon . Member will forgive I . I think Rwanda have do an incredible job . furthermore , it have rein in the Conservatives by say , " we also have international agreement . we have treaty and agreement with other country that require we to abide by international law and convention . if you , the UK Government , don ' t want to abide by they , we certainly do . " Rwanda have almost save the Conservatives from themselves , from go too far in breach international law and convention . I have listen with interest to the speech from Conservative Members , and the Gangway have never seem so wide . it seem to be the equivalent of the Berlin wall for the left and right of the conservative party . listen to their speech , they seem to be completely irreconcilable . there be those who want to defend the rule of law and the right of individual to seek to uphold their right in court , and those who want to take away that power . member have make it quite clear that they be not go to vote for legislation if it do not satisfy their requirement , but the two requirement be complete opposite — they be totally and utterly irreconcilable . I do not see how the Prime Minister be go to resolve this conundrum . from the expression on his face early , he have clearly manage to cobble together a coalition to get the Bill through today . he be confident of that . I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s reflection on the conservative party , but what be his reflection on the Labour party ' s policy or absence thereof ? I hear it all the time from the Conservatives that Labour do not have a policy . it would be nice if one of the policy implement by this Government over the past few year actually work . that would have be a revelation . I commend — [ interruption . ] can we have a bit of silence over there ? I commend the Government for the arrangement they have make with Albania , which be the sort of route we should be take . minister have stand at the Dispatch Box today and say , " we have bring the small boat crossing down by a third . " that be largely due to the agreement with Albania , which be an indisputable fact . by be practical in deal with thing at source , we could resolve this problem . invest in deal with the gang — [ interruption . ] they be all laugh over there , but the fact be that conviction for traffic people across the channel be down by 30 % . perhaps Conservative Members should take a look at themselves and understand why this problem exist . it be because of the sheer incompetence of the Government . some 160 , 000 people be include in the net immigration figure because the Government fail to deal with their asylum case within a year and the Office for National Statistics include they in the figure . that be just sheer incompetence from this Conservative Government . they be incompetent in deal with people ' s claim , and in deal with the boat and the illegal operation run they . this be the fault of the Conservative Government from begin to end , and this Rwanda scheme be doom to fail . with its rhetoric , the conservative party have overpromise and bring we to the point where we be have to legislate that black be white and that the Tories can have their own fact . the Rwanda policy be just one tool in a suite of tool design to stop the boat and , more importantly , break the criminal gang that profit from the hope of people who just want to have a well life . last week , Essex police secure the conviction of an 11th person follow the smuggling of the 39 Vietnamese who be find perish in my constituency . if we add the 18 people convict in France for be part of the same smuggling operation , 29 people have be convict of traffic as a result of that investigation , which prove that we can break those criminal gang if we target our resource on they . they be the real villain of this piece , and they be the people we should be focus on . I be happy to support the Bill tonight . I have never be an enthusiastic supporter of the Rwanda policy , but I recognise that we need a suite of tool with which to stop this trade and , obviously , anything that would provide a deterrent be welcome . however , we need to be realistic ; if someone be prepared to get into a rickety inflatable boat to get across the channel , they be go to take considerable risk , and the Bill will only ever be a small part of this . the return agreement be by far the most important ingredient we have , and I be glad the Government be still put those front and centre of all their effort . I question how we have get to the ridiculous place this week where Conservative member be all fall out with each other over a small element of a big policy . that be completely stupid , and the only people who benefit be those on the Opposition Benches . for those who be prepared to give they a victory tonight , I say , " good luck to you . that ' s great . but some of we be more intent on deliver the outcome , which be stop the boat and break the criminal gang who profit from other people ' s misery . " I hope that everybody reflect on what they be go to do tonight . we should never let the good be the enemy of the good . politic be the art of the possible . if we pass this Bill tonight , we will be that bit close to really tackle this problem . if we do not , we will look like a laugh stock , because we will have march everyone up to the top of the hill only to back down again . so I implore my colleague : you may not feel when you walk into the Lobby that the Bill totally match your ideology , but it go one step close to deliver the outcome that we want , which be to save people ' s life and make sure that few people die cross the channel . first , let I say that the Bill ' s objective be support by our party , as it should be by all reasonable people across the UK . the impact that illegal immigration have have on community across the UK , be it in term of the pressure it put on school , the health service , housing and other public service , or in term of crime and the reward it give to criminal gang , mean that there be a duty on this Government to address this issue . the question be : do the Bill actually do that ? we have hear many speech today , with some talk about the Bill ' s inadequacy , other say how important it be and other say that it be only a political ploy in any case . although similar Bills have be bring to this House and Rwanda have be talk about , we have send Ministers and money there , but no migrant . that be because we have not learn from the flaw in the previous Bills . those flaw still exist in this Bill , because the Government be try to get to a balance that include the view of the lawyer who sit in the corner of the Conservative Benches and lecture we all about comity , responsibility and use power responsibly . if they be use power responsibly , the first thing they would do be live up to their manifesto commitment to deal with the problem and pay heed to the people who be negatively impact by illegal immigration . it be fine to talk in grand term about the legal procedure and to give we lecture on comity , the balance between Parliament and the court , and everything else . that do not rank too much with people who can not get their youngster into a school or the support from the health service that they require , or who find that wage locally be be drive down or rent be be push up . it be for that reason that I think the Government have introduce a Bill that , while it have a fine aim , do not reach the objective that they have set out . the one thing that have be miss from the debate today be the impact that the Bill be likely to have on Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland be different . this House vote to leave Northern Ireland under the control of the European Union , through the Windsor framework and the Northern Ireland protocol , and we be under the remit of the European Court of Human Rights as a result of the Belfast agreement , which the Government be happy to change when it suit they but say they can not change when it do not suit they . the fact of the matter be that the Bill do not deal with the issue that need to be deal with if we be to attack the legal argument that illegal immigrant use to stay in the United Kingdom . do the right hon . Gentleman remember that in 2016 , on the BBC ' s " spotlight " programme , a constituent say to he that they be seek to " get the ethnic out " and he appear to say , " you ' re dead right " ? be that why he be so supportive of the Bill ? first of all , that be inaccurate — I do not say that . secondly , this be all about the United Kingdom safeguard its own border and deal with the kind of issue that need to be deal with , include in Belfast . despite what people may think and what the Secretary of State say from the Dispatch Box , Northern Ireland be greatly impact by the issue . Belfast be the second city of the United Kingdom when it come to the number of immigrant be house per head of population , and that be cause all kind of problem . if the hon . Lady wish to ignore the concern of her constituent , that be fine , but I want to address they . as it stand , article 2 ( 1 ) of the charter of fundamental right of the European Union apply in Northern Ireland , and the High Court have recently judge that that be ground for people who wish to remain in the United Kingdom , have enter illegally , to bring a case . certain aspect of european law be remove by the Bill , but not that one . without a change to the charter of fundamental right , Northern Ireland will be a gateway , because all the argument that the Government be hope to disapply will apply in Northern Ireland . of course , the European Court of Human Rights be embed in the Belfast agreement . the Bill do not deal with that , so all the argument use under the European Court of Human Rights will apply in Northern Ireland , and the European Court of Justice will be able to make a judgment as to whether the requirement of the European Court of Human Rights and the charter of fundamental right be be apply when people make their case . what will be the impact of that ? first , it will make Northern Ireland a magnet for people who might find that the route to stay in the United Kingdom be block , but in Northern Ireland it will not be , because we will still be under EU immigration rule , and the European Court of Justice can make the judgment . secondly , if those people decide that they do not want to remain in Northern Ireland , with the free movement from Northern Ireland to the rest of the United Kingdom and , indeed , with the common travel area , they could move into the rest of the United Kingdom . if that become a large number of people , will we then have people barrier between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom ? these be issue that have either not be consider by the Minister or have be wilfully neglect , and for that reason , we can not support this Bill . as usual , the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) talk a lot of good sense . I be uniquely badly affect in my constituency . as a result of our inability to control illegal migration , the Government want to put 2 , 000 illegal migrant into RAF Scampton , which our local social service simply can not cope with , and would probably atrophy £ 300 million - worth of investment . my constituent be not focus on whether we have Rwanda or not Rwanda ; they just want the boat to be stop , or at least severely mitigate . we have hear many criticism and good knockabout stuff from the opposition , but the only solution that anybody in the world have come up with to stop illegal migration be either with pushback , which be uniquely difficult in the channel , or with offshoring , and nothing work . therefore we have to do something . the world be in such a parlous state that there be no end to the misery and the number of people who want to come here . I hear that we should speed up asylum application . that be all very well , but the more we speed they up , the more people will come . I hear that we should do more on the beach of France . I understand that — I do not understand why the French can not do more — but that will not stop they . the only thing that will work be what the Government be try to do . it be all so unfair . this morning , I mention the case of Maira Shahbaz , who be rape and abduct in Pakistan , and who be still wait to get here . she be a genuine asylum seeker . so many genuine asylum seeker can not get here , because illegal migrant be abuse the system . there be nothing wrong with they individually ; they be all nice young man who just want a job . however , if somebody break into your house and decide to steal your stuff , the police turn up , remove they and arrest they . we be in an absurd situation where people be enter this country illegally . run by criminal gang , they be jump the queue , put their life at risk , and we be do nothing about it . the public be just appalled . they can not understand what be go on . they do not understand why we be put people up in comfortable hotel , or in comfortable former airman ' s room . they do not know what be go on . they be pay for all of this and they want it to stop . I hear all these different group in the conservative party . a House divide be a House that will be destroy . we must work together ; there be no other solution . I hear all the different voice that be go on , so I will just say that the Society of Conservative Lawyers and the Policy Exchange — not leave - wing group — think that this Bill will work . the Government think that it will work . the ERG have some doubt , but we have to work together to try to get this Bill through . let we get it through Parliament as quickly as possible , get it through the Lords and try to stop the boat . we can legislate all we want to ignore the ECHR , include rule 39 interim measure , but even if we do so , we would very soon face a final judgment from the Strasbourg Court , by which everyone agree we would be bind . that be the legal situation . the only way that we can remove the Strasbourg Court be by leave the echr . that may well happen , but the Government do not have a mandate to do so at the moment . they can not get it through Parliament ; it be a matter , I suspect , for the next manifesto . meanwhile , this Bill probably go just about as far as we can go . I be sorry , but we must be realistic : this be all we can get through Parliament . as both the Society of Conservative Lawyers and Policy Exchange have say , a Bill would not be workable if it do not allow for narrow claim for individual circumstance . even the report of the ERG ' s star chamber seem to accept that there should be some possibility of claim in case of bad faith . the key question be whether our system can process and dismiss those spurious claim quickly enough . under the arrangement we have for removal to Albania , illegal migrant have even wide avenue for claim , but they have still lead to a 90 % fall in small boat arrival from Albania . the Bill be roughly in the right ballpark , but I hope that before the Committee stage the Government will consider whether clause 4 can be tighten far and whether they can share further evidence of the ability to process and deal with spurious claim . it be a question of will . in 1939 , when we be face a world war and a crisis , overnight we export — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way very quickly , yes . what do the hon . Gentleman think of the reciprocal arrangement for the Rwandan Government to send asylum seeker to this country ? of course none of we like any of that , but we have to get the Bill past the court . we have to get it through Parliament . we have to be realistic . the Supreme Court have opine that there be a risk — I would say a vanishingly small one — that fail asylum seeker might be send back to Iraq or Syria . therefore , in order to get the Bill through Parliament and past the Supreme Court , the Government have have to make that concession . we do not like it , but that be the real world . politic be about reality . therefore , this Bill must go through and be deal with as quickly as possible . the onus on the Government now be to ensure that we can speed up the removal case . it would be ludicrous if many hundred of migrant , have come here illegally , be allow to delay matter for up to a year by go to a tribunal , the High Court , the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court . the whole scheme will be bogge down and we will look completely ridiculous as a Government . in order to survive and have a hope of win the general election , the Government must also sort out the problem of legal migration . we can not have a situation where 700 , 000 people be pour into this country every year . we must pay care staff a proper salary so that we can get more of our own people work in that sector . we must deal with illegal migration , deal with legal migration and , by the way , build some more house for our own people . if we start work together as a party , if we stop make personal attack on each other , if we stop question one another ' s good faith , the conservative party have a chance — because what have Labour get to offer ? no solution at all . if Labour get into power it will never sort out this problem . the only hope be this Government and this conservative party . there be a time not long ago when the unique selling point of the conservative party be show predictable and consistent support for the rule of law , be in favour of international treaty and organisation , and show competency in the conduct of government . alas , that have all change . as we hear the rhetoric from those on the Government Benches today , we see a party that be increasingly go down a number of populist rabbit hole , fuel by the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , whose scaremongere and irresponsible rhetoric be clearly design for his leadership bid after the election rather than be any statement of fact . the conservative party now see the court and judge , not only in this country but abroad , as the enemy . they see lawyer as the pub bore do : as the enemy of the people , lefty lawyer and do - gooder . where have we get to when the conservative party go down that route ? the only person on the conservative Benches I have hear defend the right of the court — an important part of our constitution — have be the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . clause 2 , as outline by my right hon . friend the Member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) and my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , be not about change policy ; it be about change fact . it be about say , " Rwanda will be a safe country , and as long as we accept that and get it through this House with a parliamentary majority , that be a fact . " that be a little like say , " the black cat be white , " as long as it get through Parliament , irrespective of what the evidence tell we , which be that the cat be actually black . that be dangerous , because it lead to dictatorial parliamentary democracy . it be not only that the fa ç ade of democracy damage our reputation . I agree with the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who say that it be all very well for the Government of the day to argue for this , but what happen if the boot be on the other foot , and another Government put thing forward that the Conservatives do not like ? the international treaty that we pride ourselves on be bear of the destruction and ashe of the second world war . today , they be be defend on the battlefield of Ukraine . it sadden I to hear the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and other wish just to throw away those convention , or the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) wish to pick and mix which bit of international treaty we should abide by . it be a little ironic , as my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda say , that Rwanda be give a nation such as Great Britain a lesson in international law . my right hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Sir George Howarth ) say that the Government be govern in slogan . he be right , but those slogan come with a cost : £ 300 million of taxpayer ' money have already be waste , with possibly another £ 100 million to go , on a system that the Department ' s permanent secretary have say will not work , with money that have to be sign off by ministerial order rather than by the civil servant . this be not the first try , as my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) say ; it be the Government ' s third bite of the cherry in try to solve the problem . the right hon . member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) say that we have to " keep faith " and " be straight with " the public . well , we do need to be straight with the public : not only will the Bill not work , but it will damage this country ' s international reputation . the Bill will raise expectation be waste taxpayer ' money , and it need to be ditch . that be why I will vote against it . I look with interest , as we all do , at the spectacle of the conservative party tear itself apart , but although I may disagree politically with the coalition that be the conservative party , I have respect for some of the individual in it . what be happen now be not good for our democracy . sadly , the tired old nag that be this Government will be put out of its misery only when we have a general election . our country find itself in a difficult situation . the Government rightly make a commitment to the public that we would both stem illegal immigration and protect our border while uphold our moral and legal duty to offer refuge to those flee violence or persecution . our effort to stop people die in the channel , to stop the criminal gang and to stop the boat have be oppose at every turn — oppose by the Labour party , oppose through the legal system , and , of course , oppose by the criminal gang profit from the dangerous and illegal route . it be claim that this be a problem for the UK alone — that it be our Government ' s problem alone — but it be , in fact , share with our neighbour and ally across Europe , who face their own , often great , challenge with illegal immigration . those challenge be not go away . instead , as a consequence of climate change and global instability , they be likely only to get bad . our approach to asylum need to be fair both to the asylum seeker themselves and to our community . our community have open their heart and home to those seek refuge , but that must happen through safe and legal route . we can not cede control of our border to criminal gang ; we must tackle illegal immigration . the european convention on human right be often cite as the barrier that be prevent control of our border . I be proud of the UK ' s lead role in promote human right across the globe , and I want we to continue that and to support the echr , but the judgment of the Court appear to have move away from simply guarantee the basic and fundamental right enshrine in the treaty . judgment have begin to infringe upon democratic decision making , and there appear to be no obvious way of hold the court to account . that have be call judicial activism , but whatever we call it , the answer be not to withdraw from the echr or to break international law ; the answer be to come together again , as we do in 1949 , to find the answer to the challenge of the present day . that will take time , of course , and right now the Government must take step that be within their power to control illegal immigration . colleague may remember my unease about a previous Bill that threaten to break international law . I be unable to support that Bill unamende , and have the same issue arise with this Bill , my sentiment would be the same . however , the difference be that I have be assure that the Bill , as it stand , do not break international law . it be by no mean perfect — we could spend a lot of time seek perfection , but the challenge we face be real and impacting on life now . I will therefore give my caveate support to the Bill tonight as a near - term measure to tackle illegal immigration , but at the same time , I give my unwavering support to the Government to engage with our international partner and work towards a long - term , sustainable solution . public service be on the verge of collapse , the gap between rich and poor have widen , and we be slip back into the victorian era . food bank use be at an all - time high , and worker have not have a decent pay rise in 15 year . but we be not here today to talk about those thing — in fact , we be barely ever here to talk about they in any meaningful way . we be here to legislate on the dog - whistle , fantasist policy of the conservative party , who be electioneer when they should be govern , not offer any real solution to problem and attempt to divert attention from their own failing as a Government . they be waste the time of this House and squander the good will of the people of this country . we keep go round and round on this matter . our Supreme Court have rule on it : it find Rwanda to be unsafe , a ruling that be base on evidence . legislate the opposite be not go to rid we of the fact . this be not an exercise in parliamentary sovereignty , but an abuse of this Parliament ' s function . it undermine the rule of law and the constitutional separation of power . yes , we be lawmaker and we can make and change the law , but the law can not be use to change the fact . another fact be that the treaty with Rwanda , couple with the Bill , breach many of our obligation under international law . if that be in doubt in any way , the Government have helpfully outline that fact throughout the entire Bill . clause 3 , for example , disapplie key section of the Human Rights Act . it directly prevent the court from apply the Bill in a way that be compatible with convention right , it prevent any consideration of previous ruling of the European Court of Human Rights that have find Rwanda to be unsafe , and it remove human right obligation from public body , include court . the Bill would place an obligation on every single decision maker who have find Rwanda unsafe to simply rule it as safe . it restrict the court ' ability to protect people who be at risk of harm , and it restrict individual legal protection . do the Government fully understand what that mean ? do they see how far they have sink ? be they so fanatical about this flawed policy that they would bar court from consider the very reason why Rwanda might be unsafe , strip people of individual legal protection ? from the very outset , this Bill have be ridiculous . conservative Members would do well to note that there be no more empire . international law be not whatever we say it be ; it be comprise of agreement and treaty adopt by member of this House , and to dismiss they as the rule of foreign court be as irresponsible as it be untrue . we sign up to those solemn and bind rule , so the Bill risk our international reputation and make we hypocrite . how dare we condemn other country that do not uphold international law , and how dare we preach to they , when we would undermine the rule of law ourselves ? this government do not really care about that , though . they care more about the squabble of the Conservative party than our standing as a country . if this government be serious about resolve the issue surround small boat , they would do more to target people trafficker , and they would provide safe and legal route . People do not take those perilous journey for fun : they be often flee some of the bad persecution . they be some of the most vulnerable people in the world , not the conservative party ' s scapegoat . as have already be say , those who seek asylum from country such as Ukraine and Hong Kong do not have to come by unconventional mean because the Government have give they the ability to come by other mean . the Government need to stop mislead the public with their use of the word " illegal " , because seek asylum in this country be not illegal ; it be not against any of our law , domestic or international . it be the Government who have exacerbate the problem in the asylum system , not the vulnerable people who be seek asylum . we know this because the vast majority of claim be justify . after lengthy delay , three quarter of application be accept . the long these process drag on , the long refugee and asylum seeker be prevent from rebuild their life in this country , and from work and contribute to our economy . this Government have already spend hundred of million of pound on a policy that be as crap as it be unworkable . [ interruption . ] there be nothing more telling than the fact that the Secretary of State have be unable to make a section 19 statement . he could not say that this Bill be compatible with the european convention on human right . the Home Secretary mean to take we all for fool . for the second time this year , he can not say that his plan for remove asylum seeker to Rwanda will not break international law . the Rwandan Government have be very clear . they have say that they will not continue with this deal if it do not meet the high standard of international law . this Bill do not do that . this government be waste our time . this be not go to work , and I be not even sure it be mean to . I be sick and tired of be drag to this House to approve legislation that do nothing to improve the life of my constituent or uphold the value of our society . this Bill should simply not be allow to go any far . I be sure that when member rush to read Hansard tomorrow , they will read the word " crass " . indicate assent . thank you , and I be sure that Hansard will have take note of that . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the starting point for this debate have be the good work of a series of Conservative Immigration Ministers in work closely with their french counterpart . in particular , it be worth recall the contribution of our late colleague James Brokenshire , whose work with the french authority to increase security at the ferry terminal , lorry park and around the channel tunnel in northern France , while enormously successful in reduce the number put their life at risk when be smuggle to the UK by that route , have be instrumental in drive those gang to use small boat across the channel as the mean of carry on their trade . I start out as something of a Rwanda sceptic , and have spend many year in local government and see the cost challenge that face many of our local authority in support refugee and asylum seeker in the UK , it do seem to I a very expensive policy per capita . however , have have the opportunity to reflect both on the visit I make to the jungle in Calais in 2016 , before the security measure be put in place , and on what I have hear from agency , include French and UK agency operate against the gang in France , as well as directly from some of the migrant wait to cross the channel , it seem very clear to I that this policy have , as part of a wide range of measure , great utility in act as a deterrent . the policy will not by any mean apply to everybody , and we know that people will continue to come to the UK , include , as they have do , to the local authority on which I serve through the route to Heathrow airport . however , a measure that help address the unique circumstance we face in the english channel be absolutely essential . it seem to I that this Rwanda policy and the Bill today have enormous utility in address the risk that people be put themselves to and the profit that the criminal gang continue to make . a great deal of the debate have focus on the detail of the legality of this Bill . it certainly seem to I an enormous improvement on where we be previously . it reflect the judgment of the Supreme Court in say that the key concern that need to be satisfied be that anybody who be send to Rwanda as a result of this policy need to have sufficient safeguard on human right that we can be confident , in particular , that they would not be move to another country where those human right would be abuse . that replicate the agreement we have for deportation to many other country , and it uphold the standard that we see from the United Nations , the European Union and country , such as Austria and Germany , that be already explore with Rwanda and other similar arrangement to address their likely concern about the impact of high level of uncontrolle migration across Europe and elsewhere . I reflect on the fact that I be receive a great deal of lobby from lead figure in my local authority , who be enormously concerned that the cumulative cost of accommodate large number of people who have arrive in a fairly short space of time mean that we be struggle to ensure that access to housing , access to education and access to other important public service be maintain to the standard we would wish . in that context , deal with those who , as a number of member have highlight , have effectively jump the queue — rather than those who have play fairly , follow the correct process and come here because of their connection to the UK — represent an unfair loss of public money for that purpose . although this Bill be not perfect , it should be set alongside the work be do by a number of Ministers to improve decision making in the Home Office and the arrangement that have be make , work with local authority , through thing such as the national resettlement scheme for refugee child , which have lead to the fairly seamless accommodation of more than double the number of unaccompanied asylum - seek child in the UK . we have also see additional local authority area volunteer to become dispersal area for asylum seeker and to take part in resettlement scheme compare with where we have be before , and we have the contribution that foreign student , 600 , 000 of whom we commit to bring to this country in our election manifesto of 2019 , continue to make to our economy , which now represent a foreign currency earner large than our oil and gas industry . that demonstrate a migration and immigration policy that in the round continue to serve the interest of the british people . I will finish on this question . we have hear a great deal of criticism of the policy and challenge back to those who aspire to form a government about what their policy would be . a key issue that I have not yet hear address in the point make about a new return unit with perhaps a thousand staff be this : if a negotiate agreement of this nature and with this legal basis with Rwanda be not sufficient , it be incumbent on the opposition to answer on which other country they be seek to negotiate those agreement with . to what extent have those agreement be reach ? if return agreement be the key policy that the Labour party wish to have as a point of difference , it be clear at the moment that that emperor have no clothe . let we not beat abound the bush : this Bill be in retaliation and be a crass payback for the Supreme Court ' s decision on 15 November that the Government ' s Rwanda asylum plan be unlawful . it set a dangerous precedent . it undermine the democratic contract of the state while also undermine what constitute the truth . declare something to be true do not make it fact . evidently , this Bill also undermine the UK ' s international treaty and convention , include the european convention on human right , with which the Home Secretary have state that this Bill might not comply . section 2 , 3 and 6 to 9 of the Human Rights Act 1998 be also disapplied . the UK Government be act hypocritically by require the Rwandan Government to abide by the standard of international law while disapplye they for themselves . this Bill do reputational damage to the UK at home and abroad . the Government may say that other have set a precedent for this Bill , but that argument be flimsy . the UN Committee against Torture have express concern about Denmark ' s intention to move refugee elsewhere . Israel abandon its agreement to send eritrean and sudanese asylum seeker to Rwanda and Uganda , have be halt temporarily after legality challenge . this legislation face a series of hurdle , each likely to bring it down , and it come at an unforgivable price — it have reportedly cost £ 240 million so far , with another £ 50 million agree . then we hear from the Secretary of State that there will be another £ 50 million and then yet another £ 50 million on top . it be in no way possible to justify this , give the cost of living crisis that we face . no matter what the UK Government believe , Rwanda have be prove not to be a safe country for people seek asylum . the Bill fail to address key issue raise by the Supreme Court , include human right issue . refugee have historically be ill treat after express criticism of the Government , with new provision , such as the appeal body , untested . fifteen rwandan national have be grant protection since 2020 , and this Bill exclude rwandan national from its scope . how be that compatible with any definition of a safe country ? under this Bill , anyone who arrive in the UK without a legitimate visa and have travel via a " safe country " would be subject to removal , but what about people flee conflict zone who be unable to access document such as passport and visa as embassy close down ? what about the many afghan man and woman who be a crucial resource to the UK Government , and who have be leave strand and in peril ? where be the safe and legal route ? this Bill be an affront to Plaid Cymru ' s value and Wales ' s aim of be a true nation of sanctuary . we be proud to be on the side of equality and want every person to have the same opportunity and the same access to justice , resource and service . we want to end recourse to public fund condition , and allow all migrant and people seek asylum access to the public service they require . how that be find to be contentious by the UK Government be beyond belief . instead of engage in electioneering and distraction policy , the Government should be expand safe route to ensure that few people decide to take the tortuous journey across the channel and at the mercy of smuggler . to close , I refer to a model that Professor Emyr Lewis of Aberystwyth University use when he be teach public law . it illustrate the legislative supremacy of the UK Parliament through an imaginary potential Act : the Location of Aberystwyth ( on the Moon ) Bill . if an MP be to promote such a Bill and the Government be to support it , it would become law and no court in England or Wales could overturn it , but the reality of the location of Aberystwyth would remain utterly unchanged . when we be talk about the potential of the Bill to change the reality , I think we would do well to learn the lesson of Professor Emyr Lewis . this Bill tackle an issue that be vital to many of our constituent . we all know how important legal and illegal migration number be . I know from my own constituency , which be generous and kind , that there be real tension when five hotel be use for illegal migrant in a town such as Skegness . there be no justification for that , and resident be rightly angry . when we get such issue wrong , we strain the social fabric of our country , and the Government have a duty not just to try to tackle illegal migration , but to strain every sinew to try to tackle it . perhaps surprisingly — even to I — I welcome how far this Bill go . I welcome the fact that it be do something novel , but I be uncomfortable in that position , because the Bill go up to the line of international law . international law be important not because of some sentimental approach about what it mean or even the fact that Britain be involve in write some of it . it be important because it be the foundation on which we can do the deal with other country — Albania , France and Italy , for instance — that allow we to tackle illegal migration . Rwanda can not be the only thing that we do . if Rwanda be to happen , it must be a part of a meaningful package of measure , and if we go so far in one direction to try to ensure that flight to Rwanda take off , we will knock out other important part of the deal that we need to do . we need to be careful about walk a tightrope . while I be uncomfortable on that tightrope , other be uncomfortable for a very different reason , but that be what successful compromise on all side look like . if we try to go far , we risk undermine not just our ability to tackle the issue with a multipronged approach but Britain ' s stand in the world . we will have a policy that will not work and a country that be less than where we start . no one in this House want that . to use the phrase that have be around so much recently , there be the risk that we make the perfect the enemy of the good . People who convene a star chamber recently have declare the Bill a " partial solution " — perhaps we should not forget that the very first star chamber start the civil war in England , so maybe we have have enough of star chamber — but we should be alive to the danger in say that something be a partial solution and be therefore no good . for I , a partial solution be well than no solution . tonight , we must grasp the nettle that say , " yes , much of this be uncomfortable for many across the conservative party , but we should be unite in our desire to tackle an issue that matter to all our constituent . " we should have no shame in say , " this be a plan that we can get behind , and it contrast so sharply with the total lack of a plan from the other side of the House . " if people want to criticise the conservative approach — I gather that people do — it be incumbent on they to come up with their idea . they can not simply say , " we will employ more people to do it " , because the Government have already employ more people to do it . they can not simply say , " we will try hard . " the BBC accuse the Labour party of replace a Bill simply with hope — I think that be generous . there have to be an alternative . a responsible opposition — a responsible aspire government — surely have to come up with those plan , yet we hear nothing . the twofold reason to get behind the Bill be that it be an idea that will work in make a difference to this critical problem , and it be also the only idea in town . we have find ourselves in this excruciatingly difficult position because it be an intractable problem . in the absence of well idea , people need to be careful what they wish for . the hon . Member say that there be no credible option , but we have hear multiple speaker , organisation and lawyer say that there be . the Government should create safe route and stop make people illegal , because no one be illegal . People be human being , and they be come here for very good reason . they be come from country that we have happily bomb and interfere in , yet now we be not willing to take they in their hour of need . I do not understand the line that we be not willing to take people in their hour of need . when we look at the Ukraine and Hong Kong scheme , we see huge evidence of this country — dare I say it , England more than Scotland — housing those people in their hour of need . I agree with the hon . member in so far as safe route be a crucial part of the problem , but that should not be a stick to beat people with in pretend that we have not play a huge part . we should be immensely proud of the UK ' s role . I shall vote for Second Reading without huge enthusiasm except for the concept of our have a moral duty to address the problem . the view from a constituency such as mine , with a long and complex relationship with migration , be that when politician make promise that they do not keep , it fracture not just the social fabric but that vital democratic thread that give we legitimacy when we come here . we have a duty to tackle the issue in a way that make a meaningful difference . we also have a duty to unite behind a plan that will make a real difference , even if we do not think it be perfect . I attend my six - year - old son ' s nativity play this morning — he be an angel . I be think of the story of baby Jesus , Mary and Joseph . the young child be play the knock noise as they try to find a room , but there be no room and they be turn away . I think , what have happen to our basic decency as a country ? what have happen to our compassion ? People be flee , and we want to close the door on they ! like our public service , the last 13 year of this Government have leave we with a dysfunctional asylum system . at the end of September , more than 160 , 000 people be wait for an initial decision . we should remember that 75 % of asylum claim be grant on the initial decision . half of appeal against initial decision be allow — double the number in 2010 . we be talk about people flee war and persecution . they go through so much stress , which no one in this House would ever want to experience . these people just want to start a new life after leave their country of origin in horrific circumstance . for the vast majority , the welcome they get in the UK be a wait of more than six month , run into a year . after that , if they be lucky , they be give just 28 day to navigate the housing system and to find a job , after a break in activity . I be proud to represent Vauxhall , a place where diversity be celebrate and welcome . People from all over the country be welcome . other community make our community in Vauxhall strong . the current situation face many people flee persecution be unacceptable and inhumane , and it get bad . during their time wait for a decision , their life be on hold . they be often stick in unsuitable accommodation , include a hotel in my constituency . the last time I go to the Council of Europe , I get off the train at the Gare du Nord in Paris , walk out and see a row of north african man asleep in sleep bag outside . when be the last time the hon . Lady see that at a London station ? never . I be not sure what relevance that have . the hon . Lady tell we what be happen in Paris , but our Government think that people sleep in tent should not be house . they want to demonise community . I hope we never get to that situation , but the reality be that a number of people live in bad condition : in hotel accommodation with four family member and no cooking facility , eat bad , process food . that be not how people should live . her Government have fail to deal with that . the Government have create a mess over the last 13 year . we all need to agree that we need urgent action to stop the exploitive gang that put so many vulnerable people into terrifying and perilous boat . but , sadly , what we have from the Government be another broken plan , and no clue of how to solve the problem . there be two reason why I can not support the Bill . the first go back to the simple waste of taxpayer ' money on achieve the Government ' s goal . under the scheme , £ 300 million of public money have be spend without a single asylum seeker be send to Rwanda . it have achieve nothing . it could have be spend on our school , hospital or on properly crack down at source on the criminal smuggler gang that facilitate dangerous crossing . instead , we have a fail scheme that risk break our international obligation and diminish our standing in the world . that be why member should think hard about support the Bill . they should think about how much that money could do in all our constituency . the UK Government ' s own guidance on Rwanda state : " lgbt individual can experience discrimination and abuse , include from local authority . " we must be aware of the number of refugee who flee their country of origin because of persecution on the ground of political repression and sexuality . my Vauxhall constituency be a proud LGBT - friendly place , and I will always stand up to protect community globally from the persecution they face . early this year , at UK Black Pride , I meet people from African Rainbow Family , a charity that help and support LGBTQI people from african and black and minority ethnic background . they speak about the difficulty they and their member have have navigate the Home Office system . they speak about people ' s long wait for their asylum claim . they speak about the fact that they feel they be continuously be persecute and that that be come from the top of this Government . we should be worried about a Bill that wish for we not to respect our international treaty and obligation . demonising and othere people should not be happen in 2023 . there be no sign that the Bill will be effective in its main aim of deter channel crossing . the Bill please no one and do nothing to help solve the problem in our asylum system . instead , we should be look at how we can work with our international partner and our community to address some of the humanitarian crisis that be the key cause of people flee their home in the first instance . we should look at how we can work with community so that people do not need to flee their home in the first instance . we should look at how we can spend money on a serious plan to crack down on the criminal gang and clear the massive backlog in our asylum system . we have all sit in surgery for mps , raise case . I see the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) in his place . he be very helpful when he be the immigration Minister . I raise case that begin before I be elect , four year ago , of people who be still wait for an answer from the Home Office . that be what we should be address . I urge the Government to withdraw the Bill and look at other way to help people . I have say it before and I will say it again : Doncaster be full . [ interruption . ] I often get challenge , as I just be from the Opposition Benches , when I say as a Christian that Doncaster be full , but I do not think it be very christian to put people in boat who will , sadly , sometimes fall . I do not think it be Christian to promise people a life in this country when we do not have the service for they . I do not think it be Christian to take the good people from develop country because we do not train our own in this country . I do not think it be Christian when my constituent have to put up with immigration at the level it be at . we have hear the lawyer in this House speak so eloquently , as they often do . we hear the left - wing lawyer do the same , but at least the lawyer in this place be probably try to help — at least those on the Government side of the House . unfortunately , outside , we have leave - wing lawyer make six - figure salary call I and people like I awful . we have tv pundit on seven - figure salary , pay by my constituent through tv licence , again call I awful . well , I ask the people on those huge salary to sell everything they have and give it all away , and come and get a job in Doncaster , probably on £ 25 , 000 or £ 30 , 000 a year . I ask they to find themselves a partner and then go and buy their dream house . those people buy that dream house — a three - bedroom semi or mid - terrace — and they make the garden nice so their kid can play in the garden . there be a couple next door who have kid themselves , and everything be rosy . then all of a sudden the neighbour decide to move on — he get a different job or move somewhere else — and that house be turn into a house in multiple occupation . then we have nine people who do not speak English bedhopping — [ interruption . ] that be what be happen . it be no good say it be not happen ; it be happen . [ interruption . ] if anyone want to come and have a look , then please come and have a look , because I be sorry , but you be bury your head in the sand try to make yourself look good in front of people to get vote . this be happen . it be happen in Doncaster and in place throughout the country . we be turn part of our community into a ghetto . this be what be happen . all of a sudden , you be live next door to an HMO and there be coming and going at 2 or 3 o ' clock in the morning , with people outside smoking . the grass do not get cut any more , the window do not get clean any more and , unfortunately , you feel too scared to let your child play out in the garden any more . there be no gate community here to make people feel safe , because , remember , you be not on a seven - figure salary now ; you be earn £ 30 , 000 a year . the only protection be a lock on the door . the council might introduce a public space protection order , but would probably not enforce it . this be what be happen . you can not sell your house , or if you can , you have to sell it at a discount . your little child fall over in the street and you have to go to A & E , and there be a 12 - hour waiting list . the reason the waiting list be so long be that people do not speak English in these place any more . [ interruption . ] this be what be happen ! in the school , the class be all oversized — [ interruption . ] this be what be happen . member can shout I down . they can say what they want — I really do not care — but this be what be happen . we have to tackle immigration , include illegal immigration , because it be not fair . the couple I be talk about be pay their taxis week in , week out . they expect to live in a nice street , and to benefit from the service that they pay for week in , week out . they do not expect to be call racist or xenophobic for say , " we like it as it be . " if we be go to have immigration , which I do not completely believe be a bad thing , it need to be control , and that be what I be send down here to do . I be only here because of Brexit . the people of Doncaster have have enough . they want control of their border , and I say to Ministers that unless we get control of our border , I will not be come back down here again . [ hon . member : " hurray ! " ] member may cheer , but the people of Doncaster be not cheer . this be the first time they have have a Conservative MP to hold to account one of the socialist Labour council that have be leave to get away with murder for the last 60 year . it be absolutely atrocious . I will back the Bill today , but I have friend on this side of the House who want it to be strong , and I be go to work with they , and hopefully with Ministers , because we must make this work . we have to stop the boat : that be what the Prime Minister have say , and I will back he until we do . we must stop the boat . I feel as if I have be suck back in time to listen to Enoch Powell ' s " river of blood " speech again . I represent a multicultural constituency contain many immigrant , many asylum seeker and many refugee , and I can tell the House that my constituent do not support the Bill . at the weekend , all sort of people stop I in the street to tell I that they hope I would speak against it because they find it repugnant . perhaps the hon . member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) need to inform his constituent that the reason they live in the condition he describe , and the reason they have such low wage , be not immigration , but more than 10 year of Tory government . what I intend to focus on be the law , not as a lefty lawyer but as someone who try to do what lawyer be bind to do — look dispassionately at the law . those who listen to the public debate about the Bill , in the medium at any rate , could be forgive for think that the debate about its legality be confine to the compete tribe within the conservative party , but fortunately it be not . there be source of advice independent of the Government and independent of their querulous Back Benchers , and it be on they that I want to focus . this morning , the Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights publish a briefing base on the independent legal advice that have be give to the Committee . that independent legal advice be for the benefit of all member of Parliament and peer , which be why it have be publish . I have also have occasion to consider the briefing publish by the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law . they be both important , because the Government be try to position themselves as have stop short of breach international law , but those independent briefing make it clear that they have not . the Bill undermine the principle of the rule of law and the separation of power , which be supposedly central to the british constitution , as well as undermine various of our international obligation . I commend to hon . member a reading of the independent legal advice that have be give to the Joint Committee on Human Rights . I will take a few highlight from it . require the court to conclude that Rwanda be safe , even though the evidence have be assess by the UK ' s high court to establish that it be not , be a remarkable thing for a piece of legislation to do . if the Government be so confident that Rwanda have suddenly become safe in the last month , as I say early , why pass this Bill at all ? another point make in the Joint Committee on Human Rights ' legal analysis be that disapplye the Human Rights Act be very significant . if human right protection be disapplied when they cause problem for a policy goal , they lose the fundamental and universal quality that characterise they , and that be arguably particularly the case when they be disapplied in respect of a particular group — in this case , migrant who have come to the UK without prior permission . in my own aside , I will just remind the House that history show that when a country withdraw human right from a particular group , it be on a particularly slippery slope . the independent legal advice to the Joint Committee also make it clear that , crucially , no matter what the legislation say , it can affect only domestic law . that be the point of my intervention on the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) early . as the Supreme Court explain only a month ago , the United Kingdom be prohibit from allow refoulement under the refugee convention and the ECHR , as well as under the UN convention against torture and the international covenant on civil and political right . pass this Bill will not change the fact that we be sign up to those obligation in international law , and it will not change the fact that we be breach our international legal obligation , so the Conservative Members — particularly the lawyer — who have convince themselves that it be okay to go through the Lobby and vote for the second reading of this Bill tonight be simply wrong . if they look at the independent legal advice from the JCHR and the Bingham Centre on the Rule of Law , they will see that that be the case . be it not a fundamental problem with the Bill that so many people see it as punish the exploit and not the exploiter ? if the government be serious about this issue , that be exactly what they would focus on . indeed . it have be suggest by a number of speaker this afternoon that no alternative to the Bill have be suggest , but alternative have be suggest , include a serious attempt to break the model of the people smuggler and proper international co - operation . unfortunately , because of Brexit and the Government ' s attitude towards international law , the United Kingdom ' s opportunity for international co - operation be become few and far between . People no long trust we and we do not have the same avenue for international co - operation as we use to have . create safe and legal route be the way to do it . that be what we use to have . People who be seek asylum be not seek asylum illegally ; they come across the channel because they have no other way to seek asylum except by come to this country , so we should create legal route . will the hon . and learn Lady give way ? I will in a moment . I want to say something about how this Bill impinge on Scotland . conservative Members talk about their mandate and about their constituent want this Bill . I want to make it clear that people in Scotland do not want it . this be not the approach that we want in Scotland . it be therefore particularly egregious that the Bill seek to oust the jurisdiction of the scottish court in relation to such fundamental matter as human right and the basic tenet of our constitution . Scotland ' s system of civil justice be a devolved matter under the Scotland Act and therefore the preserve of the Scottish Parliament , yet I do not see any legislative consent motion be seek , despite the fact that the jurisdiction of the scottish court be be oust . perhaps even more importantly — and this be rather important to we Scots lawyer — the authority and privilege of the Court of Session , include its inherent supervisory jurisdiction , be protect by article XIX of the Treaty of Union , which include the nobile officium of the Court of Session , a power that exist to give remedy where otherwise there would be none . that be arguably also threaten by this Bill . I know the Government be not terribly interested in Scotland , but I wonder whether they have apply their mind to whether there should have be a legislative consent motion , and to whether this legislation be in breach of the Treaty of Union by oust the jurisdiction of the scottish court . I see the Minister look at his note , and I would be particularly interested to hear he answer those point in his sum up . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , have be a solicitor for nearly 20 year . every lawyer I meet during those 20 year of my work life disagree with every other lawyer on the issue in front of they . I can guarantee that a lawyer ' s advice tend to be somewhat in line with their client ' s instruction and the end that their client want , so Members may want to ponder the source of some of the legal advice that have be mention . I have sit on the Justice Committee for four year , and I also sit on the Home Affairs Committee . I go on a trip to Calais with my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) , who be no long in his place , and the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . we speak to people on the beach , and we see what some may call France ' s function asylum and immigration system , but that be not what I witness in the slight . Calais be effectively a waiting room with no resource , where people be direct to wait for a boat to come to the United Kingdom . we see that immigrant be house in tent , and they be treat in the most appalling manner . when the french authority get feed up with they , they burn down their tent , physically attack they and throw they into the next area or field . the idea that we be an outlier in how we treat immigrant be for the bird . too often in this Chamber , as a number of my hon . and right hon . friend have rightly say , we ignore the concern of our constituent in order to pontificate about our moral and liberal conscience . do my hon . friend agree that France be suppose to be a safe country and that people have an option when they arrive in France , or in any other EU country , to claim asylum in that first safe country ? when they make a decision to come over the channel , they make a decision to be illegal and to be involve with criminal gang . nobody be force they to do that . I agree with my hon . friend . we have hear some blanket statement about immigration , but one of the curious thing I find when speak to people on the beach be that the people seek immigration to this country be all male , all single and all of a certain age . there be virtually no female in any of the place we be take . we be escape both from what our constituent want and from the reality that motivate people . when I be in those camp , people tell I , " we be tell that the United Kingdom ' s street be pave with gold . when we go there , we be go to be provide with a lot of financial support through benefit and other thing . " that be what be motivate the vast majority of these people to come to this country . listen to Opposition Members , we would think that nobody in the world have that motivation to come here ; that everyone be flee some type of persecution . that be utter nonsense . our constituent expect we , as a Government and as a Parliament , to put in place a suite of measure to address the problem happen in the channel . this Bill , as many of my hon . and right hon . friend have say , be one of a number of measure be take by this Government , on which they should be congratulate . as my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness say , although nobody seem to pick up the point , the french authority tell we that a deterrent effect and policy — the Rwanda policy — be absolutely necessary . we see , as do the french authority , that when the policy be first announce , even though people be potentially come over the channel , there be a drop in case . the spike come only when it become clear that , through various legal mean , the policy would not be take forward . not only do the french authority think we need a deterrent , and not only be country such as Germany , the United States , Italy and Austria all say that they need some type of policy and they need to follow the UK ' s lead , but it be what our constituent want . we can not have a situation where we can not house people , where people can not get a doctor ' s appointment and where people can not afford a house . that may be acceptable to Opposition Members , but we can not have a situation where we have 10 , 000 foreign national offender in our prison system . we have to take measure that reflect the will of the people , not the will of middle - class , liberal conscience . I sometimes feel it be more important for some to moralise than actually be concerned about what motivate their constituent and what we should be do in this place . I have hear two objection to the Bill , one of which relate to rule 39 injunction . I wish to ask the Minister about that , because I agree completely with what my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) say . may I ask the Minister to comment on the Government ' s legal advice ? I say that because , technically , the Government can ignore rule 39 injunction ; that be what the Bill state , although he may be able to tell I something different . I think that be an important part of the Bill and I would be grateful if he would comment on it . I respect every contribution make by a Conservative Member , but I can not believe that anyone think — I have certainly not read any legal advice that think this — that we should exclude the right of appeal or , in extreme circumstance , the right to challenge whether someone should be take to a foreign country . there must be such circumstance . even the star chamber advice say that there must be at least form of allowance in respect of that . the legal test that the Government have put in place , whereby somebody must show " compelling evidence " that they would suffer " serious and irreversible harm " , be a strong one . it will address , both legally and practically , everything that our constituent want we to do . this be a good policy — one that the Government have work hard to refine . it be within the bound of international law and of what this Government have undertake to the country , which be to tackle illegal migration and stop the boat cross the channel . I must now impose a five - minute limit . I be grateful to a priest in my constituency for recently bring to my attention the film " a man for all Seasons " , which I confess I have never see . a quote from it be very relevant today : " some man think the earth be round , other think it flat . it be a matter capable of question . but if it be flat , will the King ' s command make it round ? and if it be round , will the King ' s command flatten it ? " the proposition before we today ask we to accept that Government can simply define " fact " as fact , even if they be not so . the attempt to bend our entire legal system to fit the will of Government be a high price to pay for some meagre political cover for a party that promise to deal with this genuine issue — member from across the House would agree that it be that — and have singly fail to do so . we see , as we have see in the past five and a half hour , the Prime Minister appease his right flank with promise of amendment later in order to bring some people on side , while other be debate how those very amendment would pull they away from support the Bill . a complete mess be play out before we . what a distance this Tory party have come . its former leader , now bring back from the wilderness as Lord Cameron , say only a decade ago : " I believe that immigration have bring significant benefit to Britain . . . this be our island story : open , diverse and welcoming , and I be immensely proud of it - " from that , we get to the repugnant rhetoric of the hon . member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) , in one of the most appalling speech I have ever hear — he be not in his place , but his be a shameful speech ; to the spectacle of the Immigration Minister resign from his post , not in protest at the Government ' s novel policy , but because it do not go far enough ; and to speech after speech by Government Members criticise the Bill , but then say they be go to support it . perhaps more important than any of the legal challenge be the moral case for why the Bill must be block . I take issue with the idea that we should not think about the morality of these issue . we talk about plane , boat , target and backlog , and forget the human being who be seek shelter and a well life . the Home Office ' s own statistic show that at least six out of 10 of those who make the dangerous channel crossing will be recognise as refugee through the asylum process . give that many be flee extreme situation to embark on one of the most dangerous route possible , how can the Bill possibly stand as any kind of deterrent ? do my hon . friend agree that those who support refugee in our country deserve our respect and should be commend by the House for their excellent work in local community up and down this land ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . over decade , immigrant have contribute so much to the country that we enjoy today , not least to our public service , and we should give they immense thank . instead of thinking of other solution to deal with the criminal gang that be cause such misery and death as they smuggle people across the channel , the Government have decide to hold firm to a course of action that have already cost we hundred of million of pound and , as we have hear throughout the debate , will cost we even more . instead of challenge the criminal gang at source and build well co - operation with our european neighbour to tackle they , we have a government fixate on a plan that the Home Secretary himself do not seem to be particularly convince by . and for what ? for a law that be unlikely to succeed in even the aim it have put forward . the assumption make in the Bill be not that Rwanda be a safe country but that all decision maker must treat it as such . in other word , they have to put aside any reality they may know and accept that Rwanda be a safe country for the purpose of decision making . there will be neither recourse to appeal on the basis that someone remove to Rwanda may be send to another country , even if it could be demonstrate that that be a genuine possibility , nor recourse to appeal on the basis that a person may not receive fair consideration of their asylum claim , because the Government have decide that these thing be all safe . the provision mean that only in exceptional personal circumstance would an individual have a means of legally challenge the decision . it be a deeply unsettling proposition that the Government be remove one of the key component of constitutional democracy — the right of any citizen to test any law in an independent court . never could that be more important than on an issue of human right . the question of parliamentary sovereignty have already be clarify . Lord Hope state : " parliamentary sovereignty be no long , if it ever be , absolute . it be no long right to say that its freedom to legislate admit of no qualification whatever . " the Bill leave open the possibility of individual challenge to the ECHR and , as we hear from a number of member , we might be back here , a few month from now , discuss that very issue as the Government seek to withdraw we from the ECHR . until a few month ago , I be in the classroom teach pupil how to identify truth from source of information , among other thing . we tell young people that there be such a thing as objective truth , and yet here I be , in the so - call mother of Parliaments , face with a morally reprehensible and legally questionable farce — a charade that even most of those who will , I suspect , eventually be persuade to walk through the Aye Lobby do not actually endorse . at the heart of the issue be the idea that a government can simply state what be true , even if the evidence point the other way . it be for this House to challenge the Government ' s shoddy attempt to do that and to do the right thing by vote down the Bill . I will start by look at the foundation and principle of the Bill . it be worth remember that it try to do what our constituent want we to do . that be not a bad start for any Bill on Second Reading . I knock on door week in , week out , and I have speak to hundred , if not thousand , of my constituent over the past few year . without question , the single most common issue raise in those conversation be illegal migration , so we in this place owe they an absolute duty to do our very good to deliver on their wish to produce an effective control on migration and illegal migration . that be what this Bill intend to do : to provide an effective deterrent that break the business model and that will lead to stop the boat . however , it will not do so by itself . this be not an isolated policy ; it be part of a whole suite of policy that this Government , to their enormous credit , have introduce over the past year and that be already bear fruit . we have see this year crossing by small boat down by a third — I think it be slightly over a third — at a time when they be go up by a third in Europe as a whole and up by 80 % in the Mediterranean country . therefore , the scheme that the Government have already implement be work . they include bilateral agreement with country such as Albania , a dedication of a safe country status , which be not novel to this Bill . that have have an immediate deterrent effect . it be not that everyone who come to this country have then be immediately deport to Albania — that have not be the deterrent effect . it be the fact that people know that they will be deport that they have stop come in the first place . crossing by albanian have drop by more than 90 % . that be why Rwanda be so important . it be not that the capacity of Rwanda have to accept every single migrant who currently come across the channel ; it be the deterrent effect to stop they come in the first place . we have see it work , so why not follow the evidence ? we also have the upstream destruction of equipment . as I understand it , just last week there be a bulgarian seizure of boat , engine and engine part , prevent the ability of people to cross the channel . there be also increase co - operation with France , which I wholeheartedly welcome , as it have lead to increase patrol and increase interdiction of attempt to cross the channel — although not all of they . there have be a 70 % increase of raid on illegal employment in this country , and an enormous increase , which I very much welcome , in the number of claim handler to speed up the process of assessment , bring down the backlog from 90 , 000 to below 20 , 000 now . the Rwanda Bill be important , but it be just one tool of many . let we be clear about what the real dispute be in this Chamber today . it be not about the intention of those on the Government Benches , as we be unite in want an effective policy for Rwanda . where the real dispute be — [ interruption . ] yes , every single member on the Government Benches be entirely unite in that objective ; it be how we get there that we be debate . while we want an effective deterrent , those on the Opposition Benches do not . labour and the Liberal Democrats do not want an effective deterrent . they want to scrap it . even if the Rwanda policy be demonstrate to be work , they have commit to replace it . we want flight to take off to Rwanda , as do our constituent . opposition member want to prevent they . we want to restore control over our asylum process , but Labour and the Liberal Democrats say that the only policy be to hire more staff — " hire another 100 , 000 ; have safe and legal route . " that be important , I accept , but it do not answer the question of how many people come over in the safe and legal route . we can have a process that welcome everyone , but the UN tell we that there be 108 million people in the world at the moment who have be displace by violence from their own country . safe and legal route be a great clich é , a great strap line , but it do not solve the problem of control of our border . this Bill respond to the Supreme Court judgment . it do not say that black be white . it do not say that the risk of refoulement then be a false decision by the Lords . the Bill solve the problem by an international treaty , prevent refoulement , and that , in the rare occasion where Rwanda may wish to export people to a third country , they come back to the UK . that be sensible . that be not go against the Supreme Court ; it be respect its judgment and solve the problem that the Supreme Court judge raise in their judgment , and I wholeheartedly support this second Reading . there have be some absurd and ridiculous Bills present to this Parliament in the course of the past few century that it have be in existence , but it would be hard to find a Bill that be more absurd and ridiculous than this one . it be a Bill that will something to be just because it want it to be , and ask we to ignore reality and experience because it decree it . that be just about as absurd and ridiculous as you can get . it take some imagination to concoct something as comedically callous as this Bill . it would take a particularly warped mind to think that this type of rendition be a solution to anything , far less a sensitive and complex immigration problem . it have be totally dispirit to listen to some of the contribution from hon . gentleman and Ladies on the conservative Benches — the dehumanising language , the talk of invasion and culture war , treat people as commodity to be deal with , and as scourge to be legalle away . I will single out two speech that I think be utterly appalling : the disgraceful speech from the hon . member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) ; follow closely by the speech from the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . but have the Rwandans not play an absolute blinder ? they must have see this Government come from thousand of mile away . they have solicit hundred of million of pound from they , and apparently they will get another £ 100 million more . they have do all that without take one single deportee . I say , " go Rwanda ! you have make utter mug of this chaotic Government . " nobody have win from this Bill other than Rwanda — certainly not the wretched people who will be subject to this ongoing problem and will be get on the boat , at the mercy of all the dreadful people who smuggle they across the channel . this Bill will do nothing to disincentivise they . if they be prepared to risk their life to come across the channel , why would they concern themselves with the infinitesimal chance that they might be render to Rwanda ? it just do not make sense . this Bill certainly have not help the Government , have it ? I do not know whether they will win this vote tonight — apparently it be still in the balance , if that be news for colleague on the Conservative Benches . I think the Government might just about have get it , but apparently it be still in the balance . look at the list of all the different group we have . we have the one Nation Conservatives , the European Research Group , the New Conservatives , the Common Sense Group — I would love to go to one of their meeting — the Northern Research Group , the no turn back group and the Conservative Growth Group . that be a group of faction that would make the People ' s front of Judea look like a model of unity and political consensus . this might be the very bill that bring down this Conservative Government , and what a hill to die on — an obsession with immigration and with stop the small boat . by God , they deserve to be bring down , if this be the Bill that will determine that . here be a novel idea : why do we not start to consider immigration as some sort of opportunity , a potential boost to our society and community ? why do we not design safe and secure mean to harness international talent as they seek to flee conflict and carnage in their own country ? we live in a world where the movement of people have never be so far - reach and profound . one thing the right hon . member for Newark get right be that that be go to be an ongoing feature of the international community . it will be something that we will have to deal with not just this decade , but for the rest of the century . can we not be imaginative about solution ? can we not look to see whether there be benefit to have people who be the cream of their country come to this nation ? instead , we be all about closing border , stop people come here and make life as miserable as possible for the poor soul who manage to end up on our shore . I be just pleased that this Bill be not in my name . it be not in the name of the people of Scotland . if we ever be in control of our immigration policy , everything that the Conservatives be propose and present be the exact opposite of what we would do . Scotland reject this Bill . my constituent want nothing to do with it . I will proudly and defiantly be vote against it this evening in the name of the people I represent , and I know that I will be join by my colleague . what a disgraceful Bill . what an appalling piece of legislation . it deserve to be shove right in the furth bin in the furth corner of this country . I advise colleague that the wind - up speech will begin at 6 . 30 pm . it be somewhat comical to get a lecture on unity and financial probity from the Scottish National party , to say the least — [ interruption . ] well , if we really want something comical . I particularly welcome this Bill because it be I , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and the current Minister for Legal Migration and Delivery , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who be the original architect of the Rwanda plan . a lot of that be because we in this country face challenge that other country in Europe face — namely that , even if we turn down someone ' s asylum claim , there be country that we would struggle to return they to . there be country around the world with government that we would not wish to deal with , for example , or country that refuse point - blank , as a matter of policy , to accept enforce immigration return . in fact , we even struggle to deport criminal back to some country not necessarily because of concern about those country , but because of the domestic policy that they adopt . as be touch on by the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , we can not just drop people off ; we need to get permission to do so . similarly , if we can not get a return agreement with the safe and democratic third country that someone have just leave , we need to look for alternative . that be where look to Rwanda come in . Rwanda be a specialist in refugee resettlement . someone listen to comment from the opposition would never know that there be 130 , 000 refugee in Rwanda and that the UNHCR relocate people there . that show that Rwanda be a specialist in that area , and it be one of the reason we work with it . the Supreme Court ' s recent ruling be base not on the idea that Rwanda be inherently unsafe , or that if someone go to Rwanda they would actually be in danger there , but on the potential for refoulement elsewhere . I expect that many of the people who cite the Supreme Court judgment do not bother to listen to it . it be important to consider what the Bill be base on and what have change since the judgment to allow Parliament to take a different view from that of the Supreme Court justice . not only be Parliament entitle to do that , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) rightly point out , but we do so on the basis that there be now a treaty that directly address those point . the Bill ratify that treaty and make it part of international law . it guarantee against a person be transfer on far when they have be transfer from this country to Rwanda , in order to meet their protection need . that be the absolute core of what have change since the Supreme Court judgment . it be why Parliament be now entitle to take the opinion — base on assurance that will be upgrade into international law by our treaty , and on the clear assurance against refoulement to a third country where someone may face persecution — that Rwanda be safe for the people transfer there . that be why the Bill need to pass its Second Reading . there be clearly point of detail that we can explore in Committee . the Minister for Legal Migration and Delivery and the Minister for Illegal Migration , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , for whom I have huge respect , will know my thought . where will the evidence threshold be for the clause 4 provision ? give my right hon . and learn Friend ' s former role as Solicitor General and his direct experience before the court , it would be particularly interesting to hear where he believe the court may draw the line for interim relief . one reason interim relief be always important be that , in many case , although a lot of the challenge throw up at the last minute usually fail in the end , they be use to frustrate the flight . when I use to deal with the Jamaica flight , for example , we could only have so many a year , so people know that if they could get themselves off that flight , it would be some time before there be another , if even their claim ultimately fail . there be a wide debate to have about the refugee system . there be a debate to have about how the current law and international practice work . we have have example of people who have live lawfully in the European Union for a number of year with a visa , and then come to the UK and claim a protection need . well , if they have be live in a safe and democratic european country , what be their real protection need to leave that country , particularly if they have the lawful right to be there ? those be not debate that we can settle today . what we have before we be a Bill that allow we to take forward part of our plan to tackle the issue of illegal migration . that be why we need to ensure that it pass Second Reading . we have hear the sound of optimism over truth come from the Conservatives . the idea that the measure be a deterrent have not yet be prove , yet it have be cite as if it be actively deter people from arrive in boat . we all know that the boat be a challenge . they be a real problem ; people be die in the channel . but let we be clear : the Government be the architect of this policy , and it be the second time they have legislate on it . its architect have stand up , include the hon . member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) just now , and say how proud they be that they draw up the policy . but they draw it up so badly that they be have to revisit the legislation . I think they should be a bit less proud . even though I do not agree with the policy , proper policy making mean ensure a policy work before announce it . there be so many flaw in this scheme that the Government be struggle along , believe that a headline and a pledge that it will deter people be enough . that be not good policy making . we on the Labour Benches have often be challenge on what we would do differently . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) and I be on the frontline deal with immigration matter during the last Labour Government , and my right hon . friend be the architect of a system that mean that one person be be return every eight minute . I have people in my constituency who have reach the end of the line , and they know it . they come to I and we talk about voluntary return , but it be difficult to do that when the Home Office do not return those people ' s document and they have all these problem . these be people who actively want to leave because they know that be their only option , but they can not do so . this government must look much more closely at the exist system and how it be work . it have be 13 year of downgrade the asylum system and the immigration system generally , and now all these extra people have go into deal with the backlog of asylum case — there be 20 , 000 legacy case still leave . be 13 December the day on which the Prime Minister say that number would reach zero ? he have miss that target , and 160 , 000 people have be back up in the asylum system . People in my constituency , include a top surgeon , those come in on work permit and those on student visa , be all behind in the queue because all the Home Office ' s effort be go into the Prime Minister ' s pledge to deal with the backlog , which be just create more chaos in the entire system . that approach be not work . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) touch on the question of money , and of course , we on the Public Accounts Committee have be try to look at the money on this issue . I will not go through the figure , because my right hon . friend have already set they out , but this be a five - year plan , and we have no figure for how much money will go to Rwanda in year four and five . my right hon . friend and I , along with the other member of the Public Accounts Committee , ask the permanent secretary that question yesterday , but he be not forthcoming on that figure . he only release a figure to we when it be leak to the International Monetary Fund — an investigation be happen into why that be . that be a ridiculous way of release figure . it be not normal parliamentary protocol to release information about major project in the annual report and account , especially when we be vote on they in this House . for the benefit of colleague who may not follow the annual account of Departments with the same enthusiasm as member of the Public Accounts Committee , the account for the financial year we be in will be publish to Parliament in July next year , 15 month after the £ 100 million be allocate this year . that be not scrutiny . in other area and for other project — I look to the Minister to answer on this point , or take it back to the Home Secretary — we get update to the House every six month , or even more frequently , through Committees or lay before the House . that be not uncommon , yet the Minister ' s permanent secretary be say that it be normal to provide update just through the account . we need more scrutiny of this issue : if it be a flagship government policy , there be nothing to hide , so let we see those figure . the Public Accounts Committee and the Home Affairs Committee will work together on that issue — it be really important that we do that . we need to tackle the backlog and we need transparency on the number , and I would be also be grateful if the Minister clarify whether any condition be attach to the money go to Rwanda . we get a useful breakdown from the permanent secretary in Committee yesterday — I will not repeat it , but it be on the record from yesterday ' s Committee meeting — but be there anything that it would be out of order for the Rwandans to spend that money on ? it have be spend on reasonable thing such as education , health and so on , but be there anything on which the Rwandans can not spend the money that be give to they by the UK ? it would be very helpful to know that . there be also an expression of interest for a contract for Manston and Western Jet Foil . that be a £ 700 million contract for the first six year , which could extend to be worth £ 1 . 16 billion over 10 year . the money be intend to improve those reception centre , which definitely need improve , but accord to that pre - tender document , the facility be expect to be active between 2030 and 2034 . I be a bit puzzled : £ 700 million be be invest in Manston and Western Jet Foil , and although that may be necessary , we have be tell all afternoon — I have be here for five and a half hour — that the Rwanda policy be already deter people . if it be work so well , why do we need to invest that much money in those facility ? they need the investment , but it seem to I that the Government be try to have it both way . I would welcome clarity from the Minister . I will support the Bill this evening , because it be a fundamental right that a country must be able to protect its border . as a basic requirement , it should know who be enter the country , even more so if they be try to do so illegally . I support the Bill because we simply can not rest on our laurel with the current action we have take , as positive as that already be . as we have hear this afternoon , across Europe major country have see illegal migration rise , with Mediterranean crossing 80 % up , yet thank to the step we have take in this country , our number be down by a third . People cite the figure of a third over and over again , but what do it mean ? the number be approximately 17 , 000 people down on where it be last year , and that be way down on the forecast that be expect it potentially to be double the number last year . however , reduce the figure and be happy with 29 , 000 people this year be not stop the problem . stop people be put on boat and try to enter the country illegally require a multifaceted approach . return agreement have work , put our Border Force into french control room have work and try to dry up the supply of rubber boat have work , but there must be a deterrent as well . it be simply another piece of the jigsaw , and it come on top of all the other measure we be use . those who seem not to be able to understand why we need that deterrent should look at the situation not through the lens of the ten of thousand we have see this year but at migration around the world and where it be go . if we do not tackle it with a strong work deterrent , we will see not ten of thousand of people try to cross into the country , but hundred of thousand , and that be the forecast we be be show year after year . the Government ' s official release yesterday be the most startling statistic I have read yet . it estimate that if illegal immigration go unaddresse , the cost of asylum accommodation alone could increase to £ 32 million per day by 2026 , which be equivalent to £ 11 billion a year . imagine how that £ 11 billion a year could be use on our public service . the Government be absolutely right to use every power they have at their disposal to prevent and deter unlawful migration . to the people who say that we have spend an unbelievable amount of money already — £ 250 million — in try to get the scheme up and run , I reply that that figure pale into insignificance when we put it in the context of that £ 11 billion a year . our NHS , our housing provision and our welfare state — indeed , all our public service — simply can not take unsustainable level of illegal migration . I be not a lawyer , and there be all manner of opinion on whether the scheme will work , but my answer be that we should not let the perfect be the enemy of the good . as have be say , it may not stop every legal challenge — that be fair enough , because some of those will be valid — and it do not have to do so . what it need to be be a deterrent to help to slow down and stop the number that be come . despite the commentary on the Bill , it contain plenty to counter the spurious reason give for not send people seek asylum to Rwanda . the UN and the EU have be send refugee to Rwanda since 2019 , so I find it extremely difficult to understand why people have accuse Rwanda of not be a safe country . to have an optimal bill , and one that be fair and that international partner will stand alongside , we must tread a fine line . plenty of time I have be tell in this House that thing will not happen and thing will not work . we be tell we would not get the number of boat crossing down , and we have reduce they by a third . everybody say we would enter a recession ; we do not enter a recession . everybody say we would not halve inflation ; we have halve inflation . this Government have do many thing in the last year that we be tell be simply unachievable , and we have achieve they , and that be why I will back this Bill tonight . last week , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) compare the Home Secretary with Humpty dumpty in " Alice in Wonderland " , who use word to mean just what he choose they to mean . I wonder if the Prime Minister could be compare with the Red Queen , who believe six impossible thing before breakfast : that Brexit have be a success ; that Britain be a soft - power superpower ; that the Scottish Parliament be the most powerful wee devolve Assembly in the entire world ; that we can reach net zero while abandon net zero policy ; that this Bill be actually go to stop irregular arrival in the United Kingdom ; and that his party be actually go to win the next election . even for those on the Government Benches , that be too unbelievable . they do not think this Bill will work , and they do not think they will win the next election . the Bill will not work , because it fail under the crush weight of its own internal contradiction . Rwanda be deem to be a safe country — desirable even , as a place for asylum seeker to be process and to remain . the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) do not take my intervention early , but I want to ask she this : if Rwanda be such a desirable place to be deport to , why on earth should deportation there be a deterrent ? how will that have a deterrent effect , if the Government be say , " this be a wonderful , safe and secure place for you to go " ? perhaps more people will come to the United Kingdom in the hope of be send to Rwanda . the hon . Gentleman must recognise that Rwanda have successfully resettle more than 130 , 000 people , and that be through international institution and norm . I must ask the hon . gentleman to keep within the five minute , although he have take an intervention . I will , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think I just hear the former Home Secretary encourage more people to come to the United Kingdom so that they can be settle in Rwanda . the UK Government say that the republic of Rwanda be to be trust to fulfil its obligation under the Rwanda treaty because the treaty be bind under customary international law , but the same Bill grant the UK Government derogation from that corpus of international law and instruct the court to ignore it . the Bill be suppose to slash cost to the taxpayer from housing asylum seeker in UK hotel , but the Government have already pay Rwanda hundred of million of pound without a single flight take off . the price for this performative , weak Bill be a weakening of the court and judicial system , a weakening of the UK ' s stand in the world and a weakening of the entire system of international law , because if it be okay for the UK Government to derogate from its international obligation and commitment when it suit , how can the UK object to other country — Russia , China or anywhere else for that matter — when they flout the rule of international law ? the Bill be suppose to be an assertion of parliamentary sovereignty , as if Parliament simply assert particular statement make they true . to pick up on the theme from the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) , perhaps the Prime Minister should have simply bring forward a Flat Earth Bill to assert that the Earth be flat and the Home Office be empower to simply push people and unwanted asylum seeker off the edge of it and into the cold vastness of space . it might come as a surprise and perhaps even a disappointment to some element on the conservative back Benches , but the Earth be not flat . the Earth be round , and if they keep push people in one direction , eventually they will come back to they . it be important in all of this to be clear that despite our debate the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , little of this debate be actually about the safety of Rwanda . in 2018 , I have the privilege of visit Rwanda with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . it be a beautiful country with huge potential , and the people there have have to live through horror and overcome unimaginable difficulty . for wealthy tourist and those who fly in to go on safari and stay in nice hotel , Rwanda be indeed a safe and welcome country . however , citizen who speak up too loudly with question about the regime , or who perhaps ask why international observer have be unable to report that presidential election have be free or fair , or who perhaps belong to the LGBT + community in that country — or , indeed , rwandan citizen live in London under the protection of the Metropolitan police because they be be stalk by their own country ' s intelligence service — might not find it as safe and welcoming . whatever the Bill might say , the UK Supreme Court have make a finding of fact that asylum seeker send to Rwanda be at risk of refoulement . simply say that they be not do not change that fact . the question of the safety of Rwanda be a distraction . the very principle or idea of force people to move to any other country against their will should be enough to oppose the Government ' s policy . People seek asylum have choose to come here to the United Kingdom for good reason — perhaps because they have friend or family or perhaps simply because they speak the language . if someone have choose to seek asylum here , they should be assess here , and if their claim be valid , they should be allow to remain . if their claim be not valid then by definition it ought to be safe to return they to their country of origin . perhaps the most remarkable thing be that this time last week , this Bill do not even exist . in less than seven day , the Prime Minister have bring himself , and possibly his government and party , to a crisis point entirely of their own making . it be a Bill that nobody want and nobody like . it be another creak internal conservative contradiction . it be too extreme for the mainstream of the party , and not extreme enough for the red waller , the ERG and the Maastricht rebel , who simply can not get enough of the sweet dopamine hit that come with rebel against the party and get invite on to all kind of podcast . some of they have be at it since the 1990 , and they just have to keep get more extreme in their rebellion to achieve the same hit . Scotland want none of it , as I hear from my constituent in Glasgow North and the constituent who be refugee , who want to play a full and active part in our society and economy . if the Government want Bills that will change the reality of the situation , they can devolve the power over immigration to the Scottish Parliament , or they can give we the chance to choose a well , fair future that respect human right and global citizenship by become an independent country in a referendum . I would say it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , who serve with I on the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , but he rehash quite a lot of what have be say from the Opposition Benches , with various misunderstanding and inaccuracy . he have his moment of fun try to describe different group of colleague on the Government Benches , but let I pull he back to something that he will recognise , as I think all colleague in the House will . I recently have a conversation with a distinguished recently retire UN senior official who be previously the british ambassador in several country in Africa . he not only paint for I , but describe for I factually the statistical possibility of what be go on in that great continent at the moment . he describe vividly the combination of civil war , mismanagement , instability , insecurity , climate change challenge and food shortage that be affect million of people in Africa . of course , we know that have add to the incredible level of insecurity in the middle east and , indeed , far east from there . all of this amount to one of the great challenge for democracy in our time . we be deal with a huge issue that will get big , and we be all go to be stretch in our answer to those challenge . it be not just we in the United Kingdom ; as we know , there be issue in the Netherlands , Hungary , Italy , France , Denmark — you name it , all our european neighbour be wrestle with similar challenge . therefore , it be simply not enough for Opposition Members to point at various thing that they do not like about this Bill without really consider what a constructive alternative might look like . the hon . member for Edinburgh East ( Tommy Sheppard ) say early that immigration should be look at as an opportunity to be seize , not a problem to be manage . he be partly right , but he would be more convincing if county after county in Scotland be take more asylum seeker and put up their hand to the Government of the United Kingdom in order to take more , because the truth be that it be a challenge to be manage . we need a practical response , because we do not outsource immigration to people smuggler . the point of stop the boat , and the point of the Bill , be to play a trailblaze role , not just for we but for other country . on balance , I believe that we will see more such agreement , and that this will not be the only one . while I have always take the view that none of we can be sure that the Rwanda scheme will work in term of the number of asylum seeker who will transfer to Kigali , we should keep an open mind and not assume , to quote labour ' s amendment , that the Bill " will not work to tackle people smuggle gang , end small boat crossing or achieve the core purpose of the Bill … whilst apply to less than one per cent of those who claim asylum " . that be fundamentally wrong , and we can show so in a number of different way . first , will the Bill actually act as a deterrent ? Migration Watch say it will be a powerful deterrent if illegal migrant be swiftly and continually send to Rwanda . how many would we be able to send ? the rwandan spokesperson say himself only a few day ago that the country be " ready , and willing , to take in as many people as the UK be able to send " . all those Opposition Members talk about 100 or 200 people go there , but that be not at all the potential of the scheme . as other people have mention , Rwanda be already host 130 , 000 asylum seeker and the UNHCR have 1 , 700 Libyans there , so clearly the number be not the fundamental issue with the proposal . we have have a lot of red - herring soundbite — " can ' t work " , " win ' t work " , " unprecedented " — but there be precedent . in fact , the Labour party know that well than anyone , because in 2001 the Mother of the House , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , be in a very similar position in not be able to confirm to the echr that the Government be necessarily compliant in a proposal that she be put forward . we know that the Blair Government talk to Tanzania about something similar ; in fact , the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 build on the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants , etc . ) Act 2004 . so there be precedent and reason to believe that the Bill might work . it will be awkward , and it be an issue that we and many other government will have to tackle , but the most important thing be that we get behind the Bill and see it through safely . Rwanda be not a safe country . this country be use the Bill as a distraction from the Government ' s failure to sort out the immigration backlog . million of pound of taxpayer ' money be be spend on hotel every day . hundred of million have be spend on this fantasy Rwanda policy without a single person be send there . that money would be well spend sort out the backlog and get people process . immigration policy be already in place , but they be not be enforce . the Home Office be work too slowly , as it have previously with passport . processing claim quick be the good way to free up hotel . in the past decade , the backlog of asylum claim have rise four time fast than the number claim asylum . this be ultimately a crisis of the Government ' s own making , and it have be year in the making . the system be fail and it need fix . this country need a solution to the crisis , not a distraction . the Bill claim that Rwanda be a safe country , because the Bill say that be so . that be not the type of country that Britain be . we be not like that . we believe in the rule of law and obligation under international law and treaty . the Rwandan Government have be involve in many questionable event across Africa , include the kidnapping and beating of dissident abroad . the Rwanda policy be an attempt by the Government to look tough and to distract the country from the sorry state they have get we into . even on the off - chance that flight to Rwanda take off , they will deal with less than 1 % of asylum claim . it be a Tory vanity project . it will not solve any problem . as a country , we be well than this . labour ' s plan to tackle the criminal gang directly with a cross - border police unit and to clear the backlog be the only way to stop the small boat . vanity project for headline be not befit of such a serious issue . the Government should go back to the drawing board — I bet we will be here in a few month or a year . there be sometimes advantage to be the last speaker . because the previous speech be a little short , I shall lift the time limit , as long as Claire Hanna sit down at 6 . 30 pm . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have be a long day and a long debate . perhaps the Government could legislate for a few extra hour for we all . that would not be out of place with this mind - bend Bill from a Government who continue to prioritise prejudice over objective reality . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) purport to speak for my constituency of South Belfast , which do indeed have a relatively large proportion — I think it be the large population per head — of the UK ' s asylum seeker . our school , church and community group be try valiantly to support people whom the Home Office have leave in hotel for many month at a time . like I , those constituent have moral and practical objection to the Bill . their moral objection be to the language use to frame and justify it and to the demonisation of those who seek international protection in the UK , who have little or no opportunity to secure that before they travel . equally , they have practical objection to the Bill , because they know that it will not work . they know that there be no evidence that the deterrent work — a fact that be confirm by the permanent secretary — and they know that it rely on a simplification by this government that apply only if people have never meet or speak to an asylum seeker . the cost of this gimmick be run into the hundred of million of pound — money that should have be use to end the chaos of processing in the Home Office or to go after the people trafficker instead of better their market by close off safe route . no one be say that the UK can or should take everyone who require sanctuary for reason of conflict , prejudice or climate . everyone in the Chamber know , no matter what they say in their tweet , that only a fraction of people try to get here . no one be say that the UK should not take legal step to deter erroneous claim . the Minister have speak about fruitful engagement with Albania , and hon . friend on the Opposition Benches have set out numerous constructive proposal , include swifter processing and justice and , crucially , modern and mature engagement with neighbouring country . it be impossible to view the Bill outside two core dynamic . the first be the UK ' s recent disregard of international law — a rule - base order that it proudly shape . the second be the overall irrational opposition to migration , include regular migration . People often say , " you can ' t even talk about immigration . " we absolutely can , but we must be prepare to be honest about it and to trade in more than just Twitter meme . we must be prepare to talk about how the national health service and social care would collapse without it . we must be honest about the net positive impact on GDP , and about the poor political decision about how we spend those gain that have leave public service in the mess that they be . we must be honest about our high education model and the high fee that student from these area and country would face if we do not have overseas student . we must be honest about how it be anti - family to tell UK citizen that they can not fall in love with someone from another country and marry they unless they be among the top 25 % of earner . of course we can talk about immigration . I be happy to talk about it , and I be happy to tell the House that Northern Ireland have an immigration problem . young people be leave our region to make their life elsewhere because they feel stifle and limit by the politic of our region , by intolerance , by prejudice and by refusal to accept difference . Britain risk lose its vibrancy and talent if it go far down this path — a path that I be glad to say the mainstream of british politic have honourably resist , mostly , until now . Ireland , north or south , be not immune to these current , as the street disorder in Dublin a few week ago show , but we be a nation of people who have be the source of immigration for many century : you do not get to be irish and racist . I be proud of the political leadership from across the spectrum against far - right agitation in Dublin in recent week . I want briefly to address the applicability of the Bill in Northern Ireland . human right exist precisely to protect people from the type of politic that be behind the Bill . human right framework exist to stop politician degrade share value for their narrow political interest . the protection of right for everyone from all community in Northern Ireland , under article 2 of the Windsor framework , have be welcome across civil society . even the UK Government have call article 2 uncontroversial . not for the first time , I say thank goodness for the Good Friday agreement , which have be a lifeboat for our region give some of the terrible , damage politic of recent year . that be a large part of why so many people — include in this Chamber — desperately try to undermine the agreement through Brexit . thank to the agreement , which the international community prevent this Government from trash under their previous two Prime Ministers , we continue to enjoy — in theory — right and protection that this Government be so determined to burn for people in England , Scotland and Wales . the existence of those right have enrage the far right in Northern Ireland — a few voice who angrily prowl the internet , seek to suffocate anything positive or humanitarian that happen in our region . they seem so desperate to strip legal right away from everybody else ; they would like to legally review themselves everything they can not run away . they protest that this miserable Bill might not apply in Northern Ireland due to the Windsor framework . I regret to say that , in practice , immigration law have already be apply in Northern Ireland without differentiation , as will be hear in an upcoming challenge to the Illegal Migration Act . we will oppose this Bill , and we will oppose other attempt to unite and balance the conservative party on the back of the most vulnerable . the Illegal Migration Act fail to do that , as do the Nationality and Borders Act . this be just red meat for a common - sense group with no common sense , a research group that do no research and a star chamber that have no star . this Bill be for they and for no one else . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to join the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , in support the reason amendment in the name of the Leader of the Opposition . I start by send my condolence to the friend and family of the asylum seeker who tragically die while on the Bibby Stockholm this morning . I thank all those across the House who have send their condolence to I and my family over the past 10 day . we have be overwhelm by the flood of tribute and message , which have make we prouder than ever of what my mum be and all she achieve . it be very tempting to respond by take a more conciliatory approach to this debate , but give the state of the legislation before we , and give everything that my mother stand for , I think she would be absolutely appalled that such a thought might ever cross my mind . so , let ' s get stuck in , shall we ? first , I thank the House for an excellent debate . I express gratitude in particular to my hon . friend on the Labour Benches , who speak with such passion , logic and conviction . I also of course welcome the late immigration Minister to his post , the Minister for Illegal Migration . I note that the performance of his predecessor lead the Prime Minister to conclude that the job be too big for one conservative Member alone , so they cut the position in two . well , the more the merry , I say . welcome one and all ! when I begin in this post two year ago , my first opposite number be front the Nationality and Borders Bill , which effectively hand each asylum seeker who cross the channel a badge say , " I be inadmissible for asylum " while make no provision for what practically could be do with those unprocessed claimant . they duly end up in taxpayer - fund emergency hotel at the cost of £ 8 million a day . next up be my second opposite number , with the Illegal Migration Bill . it be rush through Parliament , yet not a single one of its core measure on detention and removal have be enact . the Act be on the shelf , gather dust . now we have my third opposite number , who have well and truly take one for the team by agree to introduce this utterly absurd piece of legislation , a Bill that his predecessor describe as " a further betrayal of Tory voter " . the deckchair have be rearrange , but the Titanic be still steam towards the iceberg . perhaps the most remarkable thing about the Rwanda scheme be the story of its origin . cast your mind back to April 2022 , Madam Deputy Speaker . Boris Johnson be Prime Minister , and he be in the eye of the partygate storm , so he cook up a cunning plan to rescue his premiership , which I believe become know as Operation Save Big Dog . and lo , the Rwanda scheme be bear . like every other scheme Mr Johnson have ever be associate with , it be extortionately expensive and doom to fail . yet here we be 18 month , two Prime Ministers , two Home Secretaries and three immigration minister later , and those on the conservative Benches be still shackle to a policy that be only ever design to be a diversion from a scandal . true to form , the Rwanda scheme be still be deploy as a skin - save operation , the only difference be that it be the current Prime Minister who be desperately try to cling to power by burnish his Faragiste credential to keep the circling vulture at bay . it really be d é j à vu all over again . I turn now to this new " please , please , please make Rwanda Safe Bill " , which be without doubt the most absurd piece of legislation I have ever see . it do nothing at all to make Rwanda safe ; it just assert that Rwanda be safe and that our court be not allow to say otherwise . it argue that black be white and white be black ; that the grass be blue and the sky be green . in the spirit of this legislation , I might try to introduce a Bill that deem that Wales actually win the rugby world cup recently . far still , the Rwandan Government be call the shot . have extract £ 300 million from the British Government — today we think we hear £ 400 million — Mr Kagame be now instruct the Prime Minister not to do anything that might break international law . it really be quite extraordinary . how ironic that some on the Government Benches rail against our international legal obligation , yet seem content to allow Kigali to dictate the term of our asylum policy . so much for take back control ! the upshot of this fiasco be that the Prime Minister have go for a fudge . the Supreme Court judgment be his opportunity to stop flog the dead horse that the Rwanda scheme have clearly become , but he have choose not to take it . he be also not prepared to go with the full - fat option that some on the Government Benches be urge he to adopt . so , inevitably , his semi - skim formula satisfie no one , because , as everyone — from this side of the House to even the former Home Secretary — have say , it be destine to fail , both legally and in operational term . the fundamental contradiction at the heart of the Bill be also quite astonishing . first , the Home Secretary tell we from the Dispatch Box last week that it comply with international law , but the very first page confirm that he be actually not sure that it do . secondly , the Bill say that Rwanda be safe for refugee , but then also state that the Government might need to offer refuge to asylum seeker from — check note — Rwanda . thirdly , the Bill be mean to be about prevent what the Government call " illegal migrant " from seek sanctuary in the UK , but if one of those asylum seeker commit a crime in Rwanda , that person can be send back to — check note again — the UK . never mind Operation Save Big Dog . this Bill be Operation Dog ' s Breakfast . the Rwanda scheme be not only unlawful ; it be also unaffordable and unworkable . first , let we give credit where credit be due . the Rwandan Government have play a blinder on this one , and they be laugh all the way to the bank . they really do see this Prime Minister come . after all , £ 400 million with absolutely nothing in return , no question ask , really be a sweet deal — although never let it be say that the Government have fail to get any flight off to Rwanda , because they absolutely have . they have proudly fly not one , not two , but three home Secretaries to Kigali . I suppose we could say that so far it be £ 130 million per Home Secretary , which I be sure the british people will see as an excellent use of their taxis . as my hon . friend will know , I work for his father and my daughter work for his mother . do he think that all this be a fa ç ade for a form of international development ? the Government do not like international development , so be this a way of target one country and give it £ 140 million , or £ 200 million ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . he be right to suggest that the vast majority of people flee war and persecution end up in neighbouring country in the region in which their plight be generate , and of course we need an overseas development programme that be focus and seek , through enlighten self - interest , to ensure that we support those country . we be constantly tell by Conservative Members that the Rwanda scheme will act as a deterrent , but that claim simply do not stand up to scrutiny , because Rwanda can take few than 1 % of the asylum seeker who cross the channel in small boat . it be inconceivable that people who have already risk life and limb to get as far as northern France will be deter by a 1 % risk of anything . the Labour party have therefore be steadfast in our opposition to this madness from the very outset . we be absolutely committed to stop the Tory boat chaos , but we will never vote for a madcap gimmick that be unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful . we have constantly say that the Government need to redirect the money that be be squander on this nonsense to a cross - border police unit , a new return unit , and a security partnership with Europol that can stop the Tory boat chaos at source . we have also consistently call for the Government to speed up decision making and remove swiftly and safely the 30 % of asylum seeker who fail to secure leave to remain . a small upfront investment in Labour ' s plan would save the taxpayer an enormous £ 2 billion . our reason amendment set out why this Bill be a sham and what the Government should be do instead , and I urge all member across the House to get behind it . I trust that , in his concluding remark , the Minister will confirm whether the Government will be accept any significant amendment in Committee , because the House really deserve that clarity . the conservative party be no long a serious party at all . it be a rabble , an alphabet soup of faction and cabal . the former Home Secretary be constantly on manoeuvre and the former Immigration Minister be fire broadside on a daily basis . we have a Prime Minister who be so desperate to save his own skin that he apparently invite an outfit call the New Conservatives to no . 10 for breakfast this morning . the reality be that the Prime Minister be not actually at the table at all ; he be on the menu , be consume by the war faction in his party and devour by his own weakness and lack of judgment . our country simply can not afford more of this chaos . we be in the midst of a cost of live crisis and our public service be crumble , but we have a conservative party that be at war with itself and completely incapable of govern . the good news be that the Prime Minister do have a way out of this mess : he can call a general election so that voter across this country can kick he and his shambolic Administration out of office and finally give our country the leadership that it need and deserve . before I call the Minister , can I say once again how important it be for those who have contribute to the debate to get back in good time to hear the Opposition Front Bencher as well as the Minister , and not to be late ? I first want to join the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , in send my sincere condolence to the friend and family of the person who die on the Bibby Stockholm . may I also thank the hon . gentleman for his warm welcome to I ? I have receive warm message of congratulation from many colleague on both side of the House on take on this role , and I be sure that at least some of they be genuine and that they mean it . I also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , for his work in this role and personally . I should like to say , within the privacy of this Chamber , how sorry I be to see he resign , how I welcome and respect the work that he have do in this role , and how I look forward to work constructively with he in the future . I agree with he that there be a disagreement between we , but it be a good faith disagreement . I also agree with his point about the need for legal certainty and I commit to work with he on that very point . I want to take the central thrust of the Bill and tackle head - on the point that the hon . member for Aberavon have make . the point of this Bill be to address the concern that the Supreme Court set out on 15 November . it be right to say that I respect the judgment of the Supreme Court . member would expect I to say nothing less as a former Law Officer . it be because we respect that judgment that we have look at it so carefully and that we have respond not just with this Bill but with the internationally bind treaty that my right hon . friend the Home Secretary secure in Kigali last week . that seem to have escape the notice of many Opposition Members . this Bill be subsequently table and we be debate it here on Second Reading . this build on the memorandum of understanding that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) secure all those year ago . I will come back to her speech later ; I be very grateful for her contribution . I will now pick up some of the thread of the debate . we hear in some of the contribution what I would phrase as the moral case , or the compassionate case , for stop the boat . we hear that it be a moral imperative to stop these modern - day slaver and smash these criminal gang that be try to push vulnerable people across the busy shipping lane in the world , where people have lose their life . on this side of the House , we be determined to take action . we be determined to smash the gang and the modern - day slavery . and some have raise the monetary cost , ask , " how much be this cost we ? " I ask , what about the human cost ? what about the human misery to which the slaver be drive people ? there be nothing compassionate about an open - border policy , and we have hear too much of that today and in previous week and month . on the strength of the Bill and the legitimate concern , which many Conservative Members have raise , that spurious claim may be make — will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , specifically on the point about spurious claim . can the Minister tell the House how many people will be deport to Rwanda next year ? it will start off in the hundred and scale up into the thousand . I enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . whenever he speak , I always think he have a smile behind the grimace and the stare . I always enjoy his speech , and I always enjoy hear he be heckled from this side of the House . conservative Members be anxious about spurious claim ; about people assert that they be unwell and unfit to fly , when the contrary be the case . those who be make the crossing in small boat be not unwell ; they be fit , young man . some 84 % of those make the crossing be male , and 77 % of those be age between 18 and 39 . I agree with my right hon . and hon . friend when they say they want to make this work and make it legally tight . that be absolutely right , and I want to join they in that endeavour . will the Minister give way ? how could I refuse ? I wish to be a little formal about this . will my hon . and learn Friend seek a ruling from Mr Speaker that the Bill ' s long title and scope may be amend , to ensure that amendment may be table and select , at least by the Government and even by Back Benchers , as on previous occasion ? I say directly to my hon . friend that I will continue to work with he on this . I will come back to his specific point , and I hope I will address his very concern , perhaps in response to the right hon . member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , my hon . friend the Members for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) and other speak powerfully and directly . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham rightly talk about the UNHCR and the EU . how gall it be to see that , the very day after the UNHCR advocate in the Supreme Court that Rwanda be not safe , the UNHCR itself send 168 refugee to Rwanda as part of hundred and thousand under a scheme that be already up and run , and support and back by the EU to the tune of million of euro . we need to hear more of that , so I be very grateful to my right hon . friend . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) raise a specific point that I want to address head - on . this Bill will apply in full in Northern Ireland , in the same way that it apply in the rest of the United Kingdom . it be explicit , it be on the face of the Bill and will always be the case , reflect that immigration policy be a UK - wide matter . I want to be particularly clear that nothing in the Windsor framework or the trade and co - operation agreement affect that . where people have raise concern be on the right chapter of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , which I want to be clear do not affect any clause in this Bill in any way . I think I have time to address the specific concern that the hon . member for Strangford raise . it be important to be clear that the 2005 procedural directive be not within the annexe of the Windsor framework . I be grateful to the Minister for address those point as clearly as he do . he will acknowledge that although he have address they in his closing remark this evening , the Home Office publish legal advice yesterday that do not touch on any of those point . may I ask he to take step in the come day to go far and update that legal advice in a way that encompass the point he have just raise , in order to assuage the concern of the House this evening ? may I give the hon . Gentleman this commitment : I will continue to work with he on the point that he have raise ? I need to be careful about legal advice , as a former Law Officer . what have be publish be a Government legal position statement , and that be different from legal advice . he will understand the difference in relation to that position . he have hear what I have say , and I be grateful to he for welcome the point I make in response to the specific concern raise . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) mention the House of Lords Constitution Committee , which give I flashback to my grilling by that illustrious Committee , when I be sit alongside my right hon . and learn Friend the Attorney General in my former role as Solicitor General . we follow that very report mention by my hon . friend . turn to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , and the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , I make the simple point that I can not address each and every one of the point make by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North here . however , I know she be look forward to ask I some specific question tomorrow afternoon when I attend her Committee with my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and Delivery . we then have from a former Law Officer - fest , as we have the pleasure of hear from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who now chair the Justice Committee , and from my illustrious predecessor , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . I be pleased to say that I be now a former Law Officer as well . we therefore have a joint endeavour and interest in make sure that this legislation work . I have mention my right hon . friend the Member for Witham and her important point about Rwanda and the rather patronise tone sometimes raise by Opposition Members when it come to our international partner who have sign up to an internationally bind legal treaty with this country . I welcome the immigration Minister to his place . be he aware that while he have be speak the New Conservatives , the European Research Group , the Northern Research Group , the Conservative Growth Group and the Common Sense Group have all say that they can not support the Bill and be go to abstain tonight ? do he accept that this look like the Prime Minister ' s breakfast meeting be a total failure ? and do he accept that this be just complete civil war in the conservative party ? the answer be : no , no and no . [ interruption . ] I be here ; I have be in the Chamber . turn to my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) , I thank my constituency neighbour for his delivery of a powerful and compassionate speech , as he always give . my right hon . friend the Member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) ask I to work with he , to be open - minded and to look at way to make the Bill more effective . in contrast to my response to the previous intervention , my answer be : yes , yes and yes . he and I have work together before and I commit to continue to work again with he during the rest of the passage of this Bill . will the Minister give way ? forgive I , but I will not . in the time I have leave , I will refer to my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , who I hope will continue to work with I on this Bill . I listen carefully to what he have to say . I listen with great interest to my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) , who be a member of the Home Affairs Committee and speak with great authority . my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) speak clearly about her position , the direct impact on her constituency and the imperative of ensure we stop the boat . my note about the speech make by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) say that he be " on fire . " I be grateful for his contribution ; those who miss it should go and watch it on playback . my hon . friend the Member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) make a powerful , measured and careful speech , and I be grateful for his early intervention . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) for his contribution , particularly and sincerely for mention our late colleague James Brokenshire and his able work in this area . there be common sense from my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) ; I thank he for his contribution . there be attempt to shout down my hon . friend the Member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) while he be speak . he stand up , as he often do in the Chamber , in the face of that barrage . he talk openly about his faith . I respect he sincerely for the way he do that and for the way he conduct his business in the Chamber . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) have the distinction of serve on not one but two Select Committees . not only do he do that , but he do it with distinction and diligence , and I always like listen to his speech . he have the temerity to suggest that lawyer may , from time to time , disagree with each other — what an outrageous suggestion . I be only sorry that there be not more lawyer in the Chamber to hear that point . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) make an outstanding speech . More people should have be in the Chamber to hear the inescapable , inestimable and irresistible logic of his compelling speech . as one of my predecessor , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) for his work in this area and for point out what have already happen since the Supreme Court judgment — namely , the treaty . my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) give we actual number , not just percentage , and my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) take we on a tour du monde . it be not just our country that face these challenge ; this be a global challenge of our time . let I end by say that I have sit through more than six hour of this six and a half hour debate . I hear every single speech from the Government Benches and most speech from the Opposition Benches . I hear every single speech make from the Labour Front Bench , and what be miss be a plan . labour have no plan . there be intervention after intervention , but where be the plan ? there be chuntere from a sedentary position by the Home Secretary , ask " where be the plan ? " Answer come there none . there be a verbal vacuum — not even a cut - and - paste solution . there be no plan whatsoever . contrast that with the clear determination of all those on the Government side of the Chamber to stop the boat . Madam Deputy Speaker , I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Jeff Smith Colleen Fletcher Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Amanda Solloway the House divide : Ayes 269 , Noes 337 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Jeff Smith the House divide : Ayes 313 , Noes 269 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . SAFETY of RWANDA ( ASYLUM and IMMIGRATION ) BILL ( PROGRAMME ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) bill : Committal the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee of the whole House , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be complete either in two day or in three day , in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee — ( a ) shall be take on each of the first and second day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding first day clause 2 and 4 ; new Clauses and new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses . six hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the first day . second day clause 3 and 5 to 10 ; remain new Clauses and new Schedules ; clause 1 ; remain proceeding on the Bill . six hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill on the second day . ( 4 ) if there be no proceeding on consideration , proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day , and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . ( 5 ) if there be proceeding on consideration — ( a ) those proceeding shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the third day , and ( b ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . programming committee ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mike Wood . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Christine Jardine Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 332 , Noes 61 . question accordingly agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Representation of People ( Northern Ireland ) that the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Public Service Pensions that the draft Judicial Pensions ( Remediable Service etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 13 November , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Income Tax that the draft Major Sporting Events ( Income Tax Exemption ) ( World Athletics Indoor Championships Glasgow 24 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Equality Act 2010 ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Hydrogen Production Revenue Support ( Directions , Eligibility and Counterparty ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 8 November , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 ( code of Practice ) ( revision of Codes A , b , C , d and H and New Code I ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 16 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments and Consequential Provisions ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft Representation of the People ( Overseas Electors etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . business of the House Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 6 ) , that notice of amendment , new Clauses and new schedule to be move in Committee in respect of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill may be accept by the Clerks at the table before it have be read a second time . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . Petition - frozen british pension I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to frozen british pension . there be a considerable amount wrong with pension policy in the UK , from have one of the low rate in north - west Europe , to the abysmal treatment of the WASPI woman and the half a million british citizen around the world whose pension have be freeze due to the failure to establish bilateral agreement , include 127 , 000 people in Canada . therefore , the petitioner request that " the House of Commons urge the Government engage with the canadian Government on the issue and finally remedy this injustice and reflect respect and courtesy for our british citizen and our Commonwealth neighbour . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare the UK pensioner deserve a full uprated State Pension whenever they choose to live ; far that UK pensioner who have pay their fair share of NI contribution should not suffer the consequence of successive UK Governments ' failure to establish bilateral agreement with certain country ; note the new report " UK - Canada : an Unequal Partnership " that highlight the stark contrast in engagement between the UK and Canada on the frozen pension policy , which impact half a million british citizen worldwide and 127 , 000 in Canada alone ; and far declare that despite Canada formally request negotiation on the policy four time between 2013 and 2022 , the UK have refuse to engage . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government engage with the canadian Government on the issue and finally remedy this injustice and reflect respect and courtesy for our british citizen and our Commonwealth neighbour . ] [ P002884 ] petition - Public Service Obligation Routes I be delighted to present this petition relate to support for regional airport on behalf of my constituent . the introduction of additional public service obligation route would transform the outlook for regional aviation in this country , facilitate the growth of airport such as Blackpool and support local economic development . in the case of Blackpool airport , the creation of further PSO route would help to achieve the restoration of commercial passenger flight , which be something that the vast majority of my constituent support . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petition and take immediate action to ensure that local airport such as Blackpool be support . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Blackpool South declare that the Government should consider reform of the Public Service Obligation route to support regional Airports such as Blackpool . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that local airport such as Blackpool be support . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002886 ] petition - Teddington Direct River Abstraction Project I rise to present a petition about Thames Water ' s Teddington direct river abstraction proposal to draw water out of the River Thames in time of drought and replace it with treat sewage . I sincerely hope that Ministers will listen to the more than 700 resident who have sign this petition , the almost 30 , 000 people who have sign the Change . org petition and the many hundred who respond to the company ' s consultation on the water resource management plan , all of whom be deeply concerned about the significant environmental , social and construction impact . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons ask the Government to remove the Teddington Direct River Abstraction scheme as an option in the Water Resources Management Plan , which be currently under review by DEFRA . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Twickenham in London Declares extreme concern regard Thames Water ' s propose scheme to build the Teddington Direct River Abstraction ( DRA ) project ; note that this would involve extract up to 75 million litre of water from the River Thames in Teddington and replace it with treat effluent from Mogden Sewage Treatment work ; further note that this project would involve the construction of tunnel and shaft start in Isleworth and pass through Twickenham and Ham ; far declare the potential risk this present to local area , both in term of the impact on human health , the environment and biodiversity , and in term of the disruption cause by construction in residential area , as well as in nature area in Moormead Park and Ham Lands ; far note the opposition convey by local community group and resident ; far declare concern that feedback submit through Thames Water ' s initial public consultation have not be adequately reflect in Thames Water ' s response so far ; and far declare that more viable alternative to the Teddington DRA , with broad public support , have be discard . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons ask the Government to remove the Teddington DRA as an option in the Water Resources Management Plan ( WRMP ) , which be currently under review by DEFRA . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002888 ] Crohn ' s and Colitis Awareness Week Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I be incredibly grateful for the opportunity to hold this debate and for the flexibility show by the Speaker ' s Office in move it when I be ill last week . last week be Crohn ' s and Colitis Awareness Week , an opportunity to break the silence on inflammatory bowel disease and highlight the impact of these terrible condition on people ' s life . I want to thank in particular : Crohn ' s and Colitis UK , which have give we a huge amount of support ; the hon . member — my hon . friend I would like to call she — for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , who with I jointly recently reconvene the all - party parliamentary group on Crohn ' s and colitis ; and Alyson in my office , who support I in write today ' s speech . over 500 , 000 people in the UK — one in every 123 people — live with Crohn ' s disease or ulcerative colitis . these be debilitate , lifelong condition that develop when the immune system attack the gut . tragically , there be currently no cure . symptom include urgent and frequent diarrhoea , rectal bleeding , pain , profound fatigue , anaemia , and inflammation of the joint , skin , liver and eye . these condition be widely misunderstood , with its invisible and stigmatise symptom often lead to isolation , a lack of support and poor mental health . that be why this Crohn ' s and Colitis Awareness Week we want to break the silence on inflammatory bowel disease , raise great awareness of the condition and help those many people — many of they our constituent — live with they to speak more openly about the impact on their life . I commend the hon . Lady . I be look forward to her Adjournment debate last week . it be good to see she back in health and strength . Incontinence be a common symptom of Crohn ' s and colitis , experience by as many as three in four people with Crohn ' s or colitis . understandably , incontinence or the fear of experience incontinence can cause anxiety about leave home , which can seriously affect work and social life . do she agree that more work must be do with the Department for Work and Pensions to train personal independence payment assessor on the impact of Crohn ' s and colitis , to ensure that those suffering have the good possible chance of get the benefit that they be entitle to ? it almost seem as if the hon . Gentleman have read the next bit of my speech , because I be about to come to the point he have just make — and it be an extremely important and salient point . we do need to ensure that PIP assessor , and the whole framework , can take into consideration those with relapse and remit condition such as Crohn ' s and colitis . I now want to share the experience of some of those people with the House , because one of they be my brother . when he be diagnose with ulcerative colitis just over nine year ago , he be in his late 20 and a new dad to a premature little girl . while we be coo , and worry a little , about this new bundle of joy — who be now a strapping nine - year - old — my brother be struggle , and have be for some time . I think that , in truth , he be terrify about how fatal the diagnosis might be . it be not until much later that it dawn on we all just what he have be through . when his diagnosis finally come , it be truly devastating . his life and that of our family be , for a period , turn upside down . an active and fit football lover , a new dad and an outgoing and often , frankly , a bit too cheeky young man be stop in his track . as a frontline police officer with big ambition and talent , my brother have to adjust to a very different life , existence and career path . the pain , the fatigue and the various other symptom that he , like many other , have experience suddenly have a name . apart from the initial period when he be off work to recover and adapt , his condition mean that , for instance , our annual camping holiday in the west highland be suddenly in jeopardy . a four - hour drive when it could not be predict whether toilet would be open or available be suddenly something that be potentially out of reach . my brother , however , be the resourceful problem - solver that he be , trade his car for a pick - up truck and pop a portable loo in the back , which mean that while he adjust to his anxiety about be able to find a toilet when travel , such thing could be manage . I do not think he ever use the portable loo , but it be there just in case . I believe that my brother would now count himself one of the lucky one , and that , in fact , be just the point . for those who suffer from any kind of inflammatory bowel disease — and I acknowledge that people with endometriosis or condition like cancer suffer very similar challenge — find a loo that be work , stock and clean be a perennial problem . perhaps the Minister would like to meet I some time to discuss how we can develop well facility — perhaps some kind of interactive map , in an app , of " loo that will do " . my constituent Steven Sharp , to whom I pay tribute , be a brilliant young man from Fauldhouse . he be a Crohn ' s sufferer , and he have raise thousand of pound for charity over the year by , for instance , do a bungee jump . he have often speak to I about the joint pain , the fatigue and the unpredictability of the disease and its impact on his life . that unpredictability be one of the major challenge ; the symptom can change and be different every single day . Steven also live with a stoma . he and I recently meet the Prime Minister , and I have to say that the Prime Minister be incredibly supportive and kind to he . I hope that that kindness will be extend to provision to ensure that those live with Crohn ' s and colitis can obtain the support they need . my friend Rachel Agnew , who I hope be watch the debate and with whom I spend time this summer , also talk to I about her many year of illness with Crohn ' s disease and a possible misdiagnosis . have have many major operation , she now have " Stan the stoma " , who can sometimes be cantankerous but have ultimately save her life . Rachel recently have to give up a job that she love , and be now have to navigate the complexity of the benefit system while have a relapse and remit disease . research commission by Crohn ' s and Colitis UK have reveal that the scale of Crohn ' s and colitis have be vastly underestimate , and that twice as many people as previously think be live with the condition . in particular , as we know from recent debate and briefing , young child be be diagnose early and early in their life . I think that we need to pause and consider why that be happen . what be the environmental impact ? what be the impact of over - process food ? I have no doubt that those element play a part , and we need to fund research to enable we to get to the bottom of that . I thank the hon . Lady for secure today ' s Adjournment debate to raise awareness of Crohn ' s and colitis . symptom such as abdominal pain , diarrhoea and fatigue be too often dismiss , especially when they come and go . a poll by Crohn ' s and Colitis UK find that more than one in 10 people would put off speak to a healthcare professional if they have diarrhoea with blood or mucus and stomach pain because they find it too embarrassing to speak to a healthcare professional about their symptom . do the hon . Lady agree that a public awareness campaign on low gastrointestinal symptom be need to help people access reliable healthcare and advice and to take control of their health ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that we need great awareness . People need to live without that stigma , and they must not be scared to talk about their poo . they need to be able to go to their doctor and discuss this openly , and their doctor need to be able to offer the right care . only one in four people be diagnose before they be 30 , thus affect the most productive year of their life . Crohn ' s and colitis be complicated disease that follow a relapse and remit disease course . we therefore need a benefit and social security system that support people with these condition . as the hon . Lady have say , it be also crucial that we raise awareness . People be wait far too long for a diagnosis of Crohn ' s or colitis . even before the pandemic , one in four people wait a year to be diagnose , with nearly half end up in accident and emergency at least once before their diagnosis . delay to diagnosis affect people ' s ability to continue education and work . they also narrow the treatment option while increase the risk of be hospitalise . we do not want anybody to feel that they be a burden on the NHS , but there be a great burden on the NHS when people be diagnose later and be unable to access that care . research find that only one in two people have ever hear of these condition and that even few could name the symptom . to make matter bad , people be not face up to this , not understand it , and put it down to other thing . you could say that it be time to talk more crap than we already do . if sufferer struggle to discuss incontinence with health professional , it can have a profound impact , but these discussion be vital to ensure that people with Crohn ' s and colitis receive the support and accommodation they need . I would like to highlight the work of the SNP - lead Scottish Government , who be committed to ensure that those live with Crohn ' s and colitis can access the good possible care and support , and access health service that be safe and effective and that put people at the centre of their care . for example , in March this year the Scottish Government launch an awareness campaign to help increase awareness of Crohn ' s and colitis symptom and to signpost reliable information so that people would feel empower to seek help from a medical professional when need . I would be delighted to hear the Minister say that the UK Government will do the same and that they will work across the UK and internationally with those who be lead in the field of research . bowel condition be notoriously difficult to diagnose , so we must remind people that the symptom of some of these condition , include IBS , coeliac disease and bowel cancer , can be similar to those of Crohn ' s or colitis . it be crucial that those with Crohn ' s or colitis have these conversation and get a diagnosis as early as possible . if leave untreated and poorly manage , these condition can cause serious complication that require emergency medical or surgical intervention . at a recent meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on Crohn ' s and colitis , we hear from a sufferer who have have the most horrific experience during covid . she be take by ambulance after terrible weight loss , and hear her experience , particularly during covid , bring home to we how awful this can be and how difficult it be for young people , in particular , to face up to something that will be lifelong and debilitate . inflammatory bowel disease care be often overlook and under - resource . current resource planning be base on outdated datum on the number of people live with these condition , which we know be twice as many as be previously estimate . one long - serve IBD clinical nurse specialist recently tell we how , 18 year ago , her service be support 250 patient live with Crohn ' s and colitis and be now support more than 7 , 000 . that kind of increase be not realistic for our healthcare staff to deal with . consequently , there be a significant variation in quality of care across the UK . no IBD service currently meet the IBD standard , so we need to work together to improve that . the Scottish Government will continue to improve service for people with the condition through modernise the patient pathway programme . it have a specific workstream that be continue to promote improvement in inflammatory bowel disease care for patient across Scotland , in partnership with the third sector and people with live experience . additionally , the Scottish Government be fund gastroenterology specialty group that lead on research into Crohn ' s disease and ulcerative colitis , with a focus on a range of area , include early diagnosis of these condition . we look forward to see the result of IBD UK ' s benchmarking survey , which be currently be undertake . there will be datum from over 15 , 000 patient and 63 % of IBD service , and I hope the Government will take that into consideration and give it their very close attention . as we have discuss , Crohn ' s and colitis not only affect the gut ; they can affect almost every part of the body and every aspect of life , from digestion , eye and joint to energy . however , many people tell we that the hard part of live with these condition be the prejudice and discrimination that come from live with a hidden disability . the awareness card that be now available from Crohn ' s and Colitis UK and other charity do help , but we need awareness not only from people who suffer from Crohn ' s and colitis , but from the public at large . when somebody who do not appear to have a physical impairment use a disabled toilet , it do not mean that they do not need to use that toilet . three in four people will experience bowel incontinence , and therefore quick access to a suitable toilet facility be crucial , either to prevent or to act should an accident occur . the hon . Lady be make a powerful contribution . I believe the Government should undertake work on accessible toilet to help people who have Crohn ' s and colitis . in my Upper Bann constituency , we have roll out a fleet of accessible toilet . do she agree that this should be mirror throughout the United Kingdom , and that there should be more focus on the availability of Radar key for disabled toilet ? I congratulate the hon . Lady on the work that have be do in Upper Bann , and perhaps there be lesson that can be learn by all government across the UK . Incontinence can cause considerable anxiety . I often talk to my brother about what be bad now . although a flare up can be seriously debilitate , the day - to - day anxiety never go away and be always with those who suffer . what be more , some Crohn ' s and colitis sufferer have stoma bag , mean that not only do they need to find a toilet , but they need to find one that have enough space for they to change and dispose of equipment comfortably , hygienically and in privacy . there be recently an excellent event in Parliament for International Men ' s day that talk about the need for sanitary bin in man ' s toilet , which be incredibly important . man often suffer from incontinence , and they certainly suffer from Crohn ' s and colitis , so make sure that all toilet have such safe and sanitary facility be crucial . I be not sure whether that would require an Act of Parliament , but it strike I that it would have support across the House , because the fear of incontinence or be unable to locate a toilet can lead to a breakdown in mental wellbeing and social isolation through people choose simply not to leave their home . we have all be there . we have all have a sickness , a bug or an upset tummy and either nearly not make it or not make it . imagine that be your life every single day . many live with Crohn ' s and colitis will understand , and I hope they will hear , these call . a key thing we have hear about time and again be the social security system , because less than 3 % of people live with Crohn ' s and colitis be in receipt of personal independence payment . four in five be deny the support they need . word like " battle " and " fighting " be often use to describe the experience of those apply for PIP . I recently speak to someone who talk about how degrading they feel the system be , and that be somebody who be chronically ill and often can not leave the house . for they to be scared of go through a system that be suppose to be a safety net be utterly appalling , and I hope the Minister will hear that and talk more about how the social security system can support people with Crohn ' s and colitis . the current benefit system define disability as a permanent and substantial impairment , or a long - term health condition that be likely to degenerate . those I have give example from , those we have take evidence from and those who will be watch at home tonight — no one can tell I that their condition be not long term . there be little recognition of fluctuate health condition , and fluctuate health condition be not just Crohn ' s and colitis . there be many other condition , so we have to have a system that be design to support all those people . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech , and I hope that the Minister hear the point she be make . one thing that constituent consistently raise with I about Crohn ' s and colitis be the impact of benefit assessor ' lack of awareness of the impact and fluctuate nature of the condition , which my hon . friend have be describe , and the need to end informal assessment in the personal independence payment process . do she share their concern about those point ? I absolutely do . it be fortuitous that my hon . friend raise that issue , because the statistic tell we that only one in two people score point under the toilete need and continence descriptor , despite the severity of the symptom on everyday life . the fact that three in four people with Crohn ' s and colitis will experience it just show how profound the issue be . I wish to highlight that the Scottish Government be reform flexible disability assessment for fluctuate disease . that be good news for people in Scotland , but what about people across the rest of the UK ? the Scottish Government be consult people with live experience on the mobility component of their adult disability payment . that include research the impact of move around , plan and follow journey for those with fluctuate condition . the adult disability payment differ from PIP , as it intend to get decision right first time by trust what people tell Social Security Scotland . time and again , I have hear from people who have be through the assessment process for PIP and have be undermine and scared . I know people who have just not go there , include some constituent who have come to see I ; they do not want to go through the process , because they be so scared of it . we must move away from that . treat people with dignity , fairness and respect be at the heart of deliver the adult disability payment . I have highlight just some of the impact that Crohn ' s and colitis have on people ' s life . it be vital that we invest in develop a national primary care diagnostic pathway for low gastrointestinal condition , as my hon . Friend suggest , destigmatise IBD symptom and create a benefit system that support people with all type of disability . just as the Crohn ' s and Colitis UK campaign say , it be time to cut the crap and give great awareness about IBD and those who suffer from this terrible life - limit disease . we have an opportunity to do something really good : to give those who suffer from these terrible disease an opportunity to take their full role in their community and do job that they may otherwise be unable to do if they do not get that diagnosis and that support as early as possible . I hope the Minister have hear what we have say , and hear the experience of our constituent and those close to we . I look forward to his contribution . let I start by congratulate the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) on secure this debate on this important issue . she be a tireless campaigner for those live with bowel condition , particularly Crohn ' s and colitis , and she have speak movingly this evening about her own family ' s experience of the condition . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) for their contribution . I will try to address as many of the point that have be make in the time allow to I . it be important that we all do everything we can to break the stigma and ensure that sufferer ' voice be hear . the hon . member for Livingston have already do invaluable work in help to re - establish the all - party group on Crohn ' s and colitis . I also wish to pay tribute to the charity that support half a million people live with IBD across the UK all year round — Crohn ' s and Colitis UK , the Crohn ' s in Childhood Research Association , and the Crohn ' s and Colitis Foundation , to name just a few . on this issue , as with so many other , it be vital that we do everything we can to break down the barrier to those affect from access healthcare . as Crohn ' s and Colitis UK have say , " it take gut " to come forward with your story , and I salute its " cut the crap " campaign . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady as we find solution to improve the life of people live with this disease . as she have rightly say , live with Crohn ' s and colitis can be a daily struggle . symptom of the disease can be embarrassing , lead to people feel isolated and not reach out for the support they need . I will focus briefly on three thing my Department and NHS England be do to help sufferer : raise professional awareness , improve diagnosis and research . I begin with the crucial point about raise awareness , as get people diagnose as early as possible be key . there be two kind of awareness . first , as the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham mention , there be raise awareness among the public . Stigma be the invisible wall prevent people from seek the help they need and campaigner be central to smash that stigma , because of their reach into community across the country . campaigner , like the hon . member for Livingston ' s constituent Steven Sharp , have do much to raise awareness and break down that invisible wall . they encourage people to get to their gps and ask the right question . I be keen for we to be back people like Steven every step of the way . by help GPs to recognise the symptom of Crohn ' s and colitis through NHS England ' s " get it right the first time " gastroenterology programme , condition can be diagnose as quickly as possible . the programme support primary care service , drive appropriate referral and manage inflammatory bowel disease in the community , and be estimate to reduce emergency admission by more than 6 , 500 a year . it have be commend by the King ' s Fund , which be not always in the habit of shower praise on the Government . it be also right that doctor should be properly train to treat the symptom of Crohn ' s and colitis as they appear . in the past five year , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have produce a range of guidance to ensure that the care doctor provide for Crohn ' s be base on the good possible evidence . early diagnosis can make a clear difference to people ' s quality of life . we be work hard to improve early diagnosis rate through the " get it right the first time " programme and through measure that include more six and seven - day service , extend hour , review and expand endoscopy capacity , and improve patient flow . NHS England be work closely with front - line clinical expert , patient representative and lead charity to develop evidence - base tool that improve care . the work include provision of a right care scenario on inflammatory bowel disease . that will set out our expectation of high - quality , join - up care at every point of the patient journey , from diagnosis to treatment . official assure I this be be finalise and will be deliver in the come year . NHS England ' s national bladder and bowel health project be deliver well care to people with inflammatory bowel disease , with a focus on develop clinical pathway . make a diagnosis of Crohn ' s and colitis can be difficult and frustrating for patient as the condition can be confuse with irritable bowel syndrome , so I be pleased that NICE have recently make faecal calprotectin test available on the NHS as a non - invasive , inexpensive method for assess patient before invasive procedure be require . as the Minister responsible for life science , I be passionate that we can do everything we can to accomplish well patient outcome through invest more in research . that be key to gain a well understanding of the cause of inflammatory bowel disease , lead to well diagnosis , treatment and outcome . I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response , by which I be sure hon . member be encourage . however , the hon . member for Livingston and I ask specifically about pip , which we be very concerned about . I know that be not the Minister ' s responsibility , but will he undertake to speak to the relevant Minister to ensure there be movement to help and improve that system ? I be happy to give the hon . member that undertaking . as he rightly acknowledge , I be not a Department for Work and Pensions Minister . I do not want to tread on their toe , but I will be relay the clear view express during the debate to DWP Ministers because it be important that we get the benefit system right to support all people live with condition such as these . I will , if I may , return to the research point . we be invest more than £ 1 billion a year in health research with the National Institute of Health and Care Research . we be fund 60 project on Crohn ' s and colitis research , back by more than £ 33 million over the past five year . I appeal to every scientist who may be interested in research in this area to keep apply for grant through the NIHR . I will leave no stone unturned in find out what more can be do to address the need of people affect by these condition . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady to create the kind of care that people deserve . whatever our political difference , I be sure that we will agree that half a million people live with inflammatory bowel disease be entitle to the high possible standard of care and support . I will continue engage with the hon . Lady and with NHS England to make sure that the " get it right first time " programme be deliver result for patient on the ground . I begin this speech by talk about the invisible wall prevent people from access the healthcare that they need . let we tear down that wall together . question put and agree to . House adjourn .