apology , but I feel that I should keep go . Means - test benefit can help where appropriate . universal credit , for example , pay an extra £ 2 , 400 a year to unpaid family carer . I do not underestimate the challenge within the universal credit system , and we want to ensure that carer who need it get that support . as I be say to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton a moment ago , we be look at different aspect of the system , include by review universal credit to ensure that it do the job we all want it to do . we will set out the detail in due course . pension credit can also be pay to carer at a high rate than what those without care responsibility receive , and over 100 , 000 carer receive an extra amount of pension credit because of their entitlement to carer ' s allowance . however , we think that as many as 760 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit be not receive it , which be why the Government have already take action to drive up pension credit take - up . last month , we start a national campaign to encourage eligible pensioner to check their eligibility and apply . we be ask local authority to support that and , as the House will know , the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister write to they in August . follow that , we have see a 152 % increase in application for pension credit since 29 July , with almost 75 , 000 application in just eight week . in November we will write to around 120 , 000 pensioner in receipt of housing benefit who may be eligible but be not currently claim pension credit , and I encourage all family carer to check that they be receive all the support to which they be entitle . the gov . uk website have lot of information on carer ' s allowance , and 90 % of people claim online , although traditional paper form be available for those who want to claim it that way . I know that organisation such as Carers UK and Citizens Advice be also on hand and do a fantastic job of give advice . financial help for carer be really important , but it be only one pillar of a proper support system . all of we need a balance in life , and that be important for carer too . Most carer of working age want to consider work in some form , and not just for financial wellbeing but to enhance their life and the life of the person for whom they care . we want to help family carer combine their caring responsibility with pay work where they can . we will review the implementation of the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , which give unemployed carer a right to time off work for the first time , and we will explore the benefit of pay leave while be mindful of the impact of any change on small employer . through the Employment Rights Bill , we will ensure that flexible working , which can play such an important role in help carer to balance their work and caring responsibility , be available to all worker , except where it be genuinely not feasible . the Government will carefully consider the finding of Lord Darzi ' s independent review of the NHS , which be very clear about the need for a fresh approach to support family carer . caring be a demanding role in which no one can function at their good without ever have a break , and the well care fund include money that can be use for unpaid carer support , include short break and respite service for carer . as I mention at the beginning of my contribution , we will ensure that family carer ' voice be hear as we develop plan to create a national care service as part of our reform to adult social care . every day , unpaid family carer step up when love one need their support . without the contribution of family carer , our country would not function . the pressure on social care in this country be already unbearable ; without unpaid family carer , it would become completely untenable .