it be an honour to make my maiden speech , particularly on this critically important debate on the infected blood scandal . I ask the House to allow I a temporary shift in tone , so that I can celebrate the community that send I here . like many hon . member ' constituency , the constituency I have the privilege to represent , Leeds North West , be a new seat with a long history . I be sure most member know where Leeds be , but I describe it as be right at the heart of the UK . I be deeply grateful to the thousand of voter who have put their trust in I , and as I say on election night , regardless of how they vote , I be determined to represent and serve our community in this place . I begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , both of whom be still member of this House . I thank the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for be gracious and friendly and for his commitment to our community , especially Guiseley , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and his fantastic team for their commitment to our community and to tackle climate change . I also pay tribute to those who come before : Greg Mulholland , Paul Truswell and the late Harold Best , who all have a continued presence in the constituency . those esteemed gentleman have all fight for our community , and I be honour to stand on their shoulder , but I say " gentleman " for good reason : I be proud to be the first woman ever to represent Leeds North West , the place where I be bear and raise , as be my parent before I . see more woman elect to Parliament than ever before matter . it matter to the woman and girl across our community — to Alice in Otley , Navdeeb in Adel and Chloe in Horsforth . we have not have enough female mps in my home city , but we be make up for lost time . leed now boast the first female Chancellor ever , so there be progress , friend , progress . leed North West have an incredible history . the stunning Norman church in Adel date back to the 12th century ; it be where my parent be married , where I be christen , and where my grandfather lie at rest . far west be Otley Chevin . member may not yet have have the chance to visit Otley Chevin , but we would not be here without it . the stone from the Chevin provide the foundation for this very Parliament when it be rebuild in the 1840 . it should not be a surprise that it be Yorkshire that keep this House ground . in Leeds North West , our foot be always plant firmly on that bedrock , but our eye remain on the horizon , ready to embrace the future . our constituency be a vibrant hub of entrepreneurship and creativity , a legacy that continue to thrive today . Abraham Moon in Guiseley , a fabric company establish in 1837 , still supply international fashion house today , while EMIS — which begin in the 1980 in Horsforth — now flourish in beautiful Rawdon as the lead provider of datum support to the NHS . we be home to West Yorkshire ' s only airport , Leeds Bradford , and I be pleased to meet with Jet2 ' s chief executive officer Steve just this week to discuss how the aviation sector can innovate to decarbonise . should member wish to stop for a bite to eat , they should look no far than the thrive bar and restaurant of vibrant Horsforth . it be a constituency burst with joyful community fair and fete , from Guiseley festival to Yeadon carnival and from Rawdon summer gala to the Arthington and Bramhope show — that last one come complete with a human fruit machine . there be no strong pride than Yorkshire pride , and our community spirit be a great source of strength . however , as in many place , people be feel overwhelmed and concerned about their future and that of their child and grandchild . many of the people I have meet on the doorstep also feel let down — let down by politician and by the institution they have put their trust in over decade . the infected blood scandal be the most extreme and harrowing example of such systematic failure : people place their trust in doctor and the Government to protect they , and that trust be betray . I be proud that this Government and this Prime Minister will introduce a duty of candour law to prevent future cover - up like the infected blood and Post Office scandal . I also share deep concern about the other great challenge face our community . mental health figure be horrify . the Global Mind Project have reveal that the UK have the high rate of mental distress in the world and rank second worst in overall mental health . People be work hard , yet get unhealthier and unhappy , and of course , the climate and nature crisis loom . we need thing to change ; the country vote for change , and it be change that propel I into politic . my journey begin with the climate crisis . we know that if we get it wrong , we face disaster — particularly for the most vulnerable among we — but if we get it right , we unlock enormous opportunity for our society . in 2003 , I join the local Leeds branch of Friends of the Earth and launch a campaign for the UK ' s first climate change Bill . everyone tell I that it be impossible ; that it be too ambitious and too radical . there be no way that the Treasury would ever allow a carbon budget — but , friend , they do . we turn that campaign into the fourth most support campaign in Parliament ' s history , with cross - party backing from member across the House . the last Labour Government turn that Bill into an Act in 2008 , under my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , whom I be honour to be work with again . under this Act , Britain decarbonise fast than any other rich country . this Act have now become a global benchmark adopt by other nation — and that , I say to my hon . friend , be what global leadership look like . why be I share this ? it be because politic must be about real change or it be about nothing . I want to serve our community , and improve our school , healthcare and public service . when I think about change , I think about my grandmother , Marjorie Simms . she challenge the status quo . she live in Horsforth in the1950s . there be not that many woman drive then , but Marjorie do . there be not that many woman wear trouser , but Marjorie do . Majorie develop breast cancer , and most parent in the 1950 avoid talk to their child , but Marjorie show they her mastectomy so they could understand . she die at 43 , the age I enter Parliament . Majorie do thing differently and her spirit live on in I . we have see too much promise and too little delivery in recent year — endless debate about challenge , but a lack of energy for real solution . politic should be about action , not just word . the seed of change can be see within our community . as a Government , our role be to water they and create the condition for they to flourish . leed North West be willing to play its role in full . we have the leader , we have the idea and we have the " get stuff do " attitude that personify Yorkshire — like the student I meet recently at Ralph Thoresby and Green Meadows or the cadet in my constituency , who be ambitious about the difference we can make ; like the Horsforth shed set up a couple of year ago by ex - teacher base on the national man ' s shed model and support male mental health , but expand to include many other vulnerable member of the community ; like those from Otley 2030 who decide they want to be a beacon of hope and create a live laboratory in the town to create climate friendly and sustainable solution where people and nature thrive ; and like Brian who , after a death in morrison car park in Guiseley , set up defibrillator all over the community so that lifesave equipment be on hand and there be a network of community activist service they . let we not forget the gold medal Olympians in our community — the Brownlee brother and the cyclist Tom Pidcock — who inspire we all with their dedication and achievement . we be indeed a hotbed of world - class talent . People in Leeds North West do not wait for change to come to they ; they make it happen . they be the doer and the problem solver , and I will play my role in that same way . I will champion the green agenda by focus on practical solution that carve a british path towards a successful green transition . we will leverage our strength , whether it be world - lead research , support our good business mind , or unlock the public and private investment need to turbocharge a green economy . I will support the health of our community — mental health , physical health , community health — and I want to support our entrepreneur and creativity to grow our region . I promise to be a ferocious champion for my community , my beloved Yorkshire and our country , and I will do it with joy . it may recently have become more fashionable across the pond , but I have be measure with joy for year , and there be always space for a little more joy . finally , I promise to listen , learn and reflect . no one have all the answer , but all of we have some of they . I commit to work constructively and collectively . I will endeavour to arrive with curiosity and non - judgment , because if we want to change the way we do thing , we must start in this moment , in this place and with these action .