Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — New Housing : access to Health Services what step she plan to take to ensure that new housing development have adequate access to primary health service . what step she plan to take to ensure that new housing development have adequate access to primary health service . through the revise national planning policy framework , this Government have strengthen the exist system of developer contribution to ensure that new development provide the necessary infrastructure that community expect and deserve , include health service . we will robustly hold developer to account for deliver on their obligation , and we will support local planning authority to do so . Westvale Park in my constituency be a new housing development of 1 , 500 home . its resident have be wait seven year for a gp surgery , and the exist gps can not expand their capacity . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can ensure that Westvale Park get the gp surgery it have be promise , as well as the other associate infrastructure and primary healthcare service for new development across my constituency ? I sympathise with the hon . Gentleman , which be why this Government have say that infrastructure must come as part of our 1 . 5 million home . the Housing Minister will be happy to meet he . cornish house price far exceed local wage , and in area such as Rock and St Minver , 40 % of house be second home . meanwhile , more than 3 , 000 home be set to be build in town such as Bodmin by 2030 , but the only GP surgery building be currently run at 150 % capacity , despite a new building have be promise for year . will the Secretary of State please ensure that national planning guidance mandate that primary care and education infrastructure be put in place before development be start , prevent developer from later break their promise ? again , I sympathise with the hon . Gentleman . as I have say , this Government be absolutely committed to ensure that we get that infrastructure and that development be a truly plan - lead system . the policy framework be mean to do that , and we intend to consult on future policy change — include a set of national policy for decision making — this spring . last week , the Government produce new guidance about build on green - belt site , particularly the golden rule about have sufficient infrastructure in place for health , education and transport . at the request of the Planning Inspectorate , Sheffield now have to provide site in the green belt to hit its housing target . will the Secretary of State make arrangement for the Housing Minister to meet the leader of the council and local mp to discuss how those arrangement can be deliver , and liaise with her colleague in other department to ensure that : the resource be available to enable that to happen ? I can do well than that : the Housing Minister be go on Thursday . when new housing be build in Mickleover under the last government , resident be promise time and again that they would get a new gp surgery , but it never happen . what can this Government do to ensure that when new home be build , resident have the GP access they need ? again , I totally sympathise — I think this be why people have resist some of these planning application a lot of the time . that be why our Government be absolutely committed to ensure , through the revise national planning policy framework , that infrastructure , include GP surgery , be available when new housing be build . I call the shadow Minister . we know that through the section 106 agreement progress , the planning system be very good at levy fund for new NHS facility , but NHS Property Services have not always be effective at build those facility out on time . what assurance can the Secretary of State give the House that across Government there will be an appropriate focus on ensure that NHS Property Services deliver the facility that planning have secure ? the shadow Minister be absolutely right — it be his Government who do not do enough in this area . we have say that we will strengthen section 106 planning obligation , and we have also set up a unit within my Department to ensure that we hold developer to account and work across Government to ensure that infrastructure be build . housing target : new town Taskforce whether the number of house recommend by the new town taskforce will be in addition to the housing target set in the national policy planning framework . not least because we will only begin construction of the next generation of new town towards the end of this Parliament , the Government have be clear that they will deliver over and above the target produce by the standard method . we will , of course , keep under review how the taskforce ' s forthcoming recommendation on new town interact with housing target across England . community in Mid Bedfordshire have always do their bit to take new housing , but continue pressure to build be chip away at our beautiful countryside and the historical character of our town and village . will the Minister assure community such as mine that the new town taskforce can not hit we with a double whammy of house building ? the independent expert taskforce , chair by Sir Michael Lyons , will be submit its final report to we in the summer and , as such , we have absolutely no idea which location it will recommend to Ministers for decision . we have be clear , as I have say , that our ambition be that new town will contribute over and above the target produce by the standard method , but obviously we want to make sure that the right incentive be in place to support proactive local authority , such as his , come forward with these large - scale new community . we know that future generation of old people be unlikely to have have generous pension or even to have be homeowner during their work life . will the Minister therefore confirm whether housing target will include specific reference to old people ' s housing and the grow need for age - appropriate accommodation ? I would say two thing to my hon . friend . first , the old people ' s housing taskforce recently report , and we be weigh up its recommendation . we have also make clear through the national planning policy framework that we expect local authority to take into account the type of tenure and home that they need for their local area , and local plan be the primary way that different type of housing for different demographic demographic should be bring forward . Penistone Line what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Transport on the Penistone line project . our Department be in regular dialogue with the Department for Transport and with regional mayor on how good to support local transport infrastructure investment , include the Penistone line project . with our decision to finally grasp the nettle and support a mass transit system , this Government be now provide unprecedented level of investment for the region . the Penistone line connect Kirklees , Barnsley and Sheffield . single - track section constrain capacity and present reliability issue . on the day that the previous Conservative Government announce that Network North money would be spend on pothole in London , three out of six service run over a four - hour period be cancel on the Penistone line . do the Minister agree that the propose improvement will boost connectivity , economic growth , education and healthcare ? will the Minister meet I and my colleague to discuss advance this project ? I thank my hon . friend for raise these important point . I totally agree with he that improve connectivity be essential for place to thrive , and that be a point that Mayor Tracy Brabin make to I frequently . I can happily say that the case for West Yorkshire be hear loud and clear . I would of course be happy to hold such a meeting . Levelling - up Projects what her plan be for levelling - up project . despite the difficult fiscal context , at the autumn Budget we provide stability for legacy levelling - up project — now call local growth funding — prioritise expenditure on the programme that most directly support the five mission that this Government be elect on . the Government will set out our long - term vision for local growth at the upcoming spending review . the provisional local government finance settlement for 2025 - 26 introduce change to the previous methodology for the then level - up funding for categorise area of priority need . the Rural Services Network have highlight concern and disparity that shift funding away from rural and coastal community to urban area . can the Minister assure the House that any new funding formula will adequately address the unique challenge of rural and coastal community ? will he commit to publish the criterion by which future levelling - up funding decision will be make ? we have be clear that for local growth funding we want to move away from the old model of competitive funding pot and beauty parade , which be short - term and base on central criterion . I can assure the hon . Lady that the model that people get from this Government will be long term , will be allocative , will have more flexibility and will have more local leadership , and it will of course be target at those community that need it the most . may I first thank the Secretary of State for visit Preston last week to attend this year ' s convention of the north ? it be a fantastic event and reinvigorate the case for northern investment to be a key determinant in Government decision . in that vein , can the Minister outline what conversation be be hold with departmental colleague to ensure that the opportunity of invest in the north be fully realise and understand ? I know that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State enjoy her visit . our Ministry be clear that although we have a crucial role to play in devolution , it be a whole - government venture . we be have frequent conversation with colleague about how to crowd - in the important policy intervention they be make , to ensure that our community across the country have the tool and resource they need to shape their place . leasehold Costs what step she be take to help tackle increase in leaseholder ' cost . the Government recognise the considerable financial strain that opaque and unfair fee and charge be place on leaseholder across the country . as my hon . friend will know , on 21 November last year , I make a write ministerial statement set out the step the Government intend to take to provide leaseholder with great right , power and protection over their home by implement those reform to the leasehold system already in statute . we will also progress the wide set of reform necessary to end the feudal leasehold system for good . I welcome this Labour Government get a grip on the feudal racket that enslave leaseholder to ever - rise management fee and ground rent , make it impossible to pay and impossible to move . will the Minister provide transitional arrangement to cap those cost while ensure that all new development — even development that be soon to enter the planning stage , such as the one at York Central — can make the transition to commonhold as soon as the law change ? the Government have no plan to cap service charge for tenant and leaseholder , give that would prevent necessary fund from be raise for legitimate purpose , but we do plan to tackle unregulate unaffordable ground rent provision through legislation . as the White Paper publish today make clear , we want to make the process of convert to commonhold as easy as possible , and we will set out proposal in the draft leasehold and commonhold reform Bill , which be to be publish later this year . I welcome the Government ' s announcement today of change to leasehold and the introduction of commonhold , but thousand of leaseholder across the country be still cripple by both high service charge and fail delivery . I be sure that the inboxe of member across the House be full of complaint from constituent , particularly in relation to FirstPort management company . what can the Government do to hold individual management company accountable for the service they deliver to our resident ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we intend to bring into force this year the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , which be design to drive up the transparency of service charge so that leaseholder can challenge they more easily if they consider they to be unreasonable . we intend to strengthen the regulation of manage agent , impose minimum standard in relation to , for example , qualification . I would say to any manage agent — and I know that member across the House have be hold they to account — that they should improve their performance in the light of the change come forward in the near future . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Minister for his comment over the weekend — we really do need to ensure that we ban new leasehold — but , as he know , leaseholder have be promise this many a time before , and many will be go to sleep tonight with only a little sigh of relief because those bill will continue to come . the Minister mention the White Paper ; can he tell we what the status of exist leaseholder will be when the measure to end leasehold be finally introduce ? let I explain , as simply as I can , what we want to do . as the White Paper make clear , we will ban the sale of new leasehold flat so that commonhold become the default tenure , and we will ensure that the process of conversion be as simple as possible so that those leaseholder in exist leasehold block who want to make that change can do so as simply as possible . but we have to ensure that those who do not want to make that change have the power , right and protection in relation to their home that will give they the immediate relief that my hon . friend talk about . what step be the Government take to help those leaseholder with double ground rent who now feel trapped and unable to remortgage or sell their property without meet the massive cost of change their lease , which , as I know from personal experience , can amount to five - figure sum ? I well recognise the problem . as the hon . Gentleman will probably know , historically ground rent be nominal sum — often peppercorn sum — but over the past 20 year we have see a very different system develop . we have make a commitment , which we will honour , to take action on unregulated and unaffordable ground rent through legislation , and we will provide further detail in due course . pub : non - domestic Rates what discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on level of non - domestic rate for pub . give the importance of business rate to both local government finance and local community , and particularly to our high street , our two department engage regularly on these matter . pub be eligible for the retail , hospitality and leisure relief scheme , and in the 2025 - 26 financial year pub will benefit from a 40 % relief on their bill , up to a cash cap of £ 110 , 000 . for 2026 - 27 , the Government intend to introduce a permanently low rate for qualify retail , hospitality and leisure business , include pub . those rate will be set by the Chancellor in the 2025 autumn statement . the high pub in the Yorkshire wold , the Wolds Inn at Huggate , be a great success story — Mr Speaker , I would be delighted to buy you a pint there the next time you find yourself on the right side of the Pennines — but , like many pub in my constituency , it face a crippling rise in non - domestic rate at a time when margin be very tight . local pub be not just business but much - love community asset , so will the Minister reverse this tax grab and start support the great british local ? if I return as a missionary , I will bear that in mind . well , if it be intend to be a tax grab on pub , we be not do a very good job of it , because when the permanent scheme come in , 99 % of pub that be under the £ 500 , 000 threshold will benefit from it . we absolutely recognise the importance of our community pub in prop up the community and give they place to meet , and to the economy and the good job that they provide . the Armfield Club in my constituency be a fantastic local boozer that be run by , and be create by , Blackpool FC supporter . venue such as the Armfield be the beat heart of our town , provide job and bring local community together . what step will the Minister take to ensure a bright and sustainable future for club such as the Armfield ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that he be do to champion pub in his constituency . like all of we , he recognise just how important they be to the economy , and probably even more so to local community . the Government can do a lot on business rate and on thing like the community right to buy , which give the community the right to step in when pub might face closure , as part of the package . Arbroath Town Plan whether she have have discussion with the Secretary of State for Scotland on the Arbroath town plan . my official and I continue to work with our counterpart , include in the Scotland Office and colleague in the devolved government , to develop and deliver the reform long - term plan for town . I be delighted to visit Arbroath early this year . I be blow away by the quality of its consultation and the boldness of its plan , and I commend the leadership of Peter Stirling and the rest of the town board . may I put on record my thank to the Minister for visit Arbroath ? it be good of he to do that , and I join he in congratulate Peter Stirling and member of the Arbroath town board . we have see how hard - work they be and the way the community really get behind the project . I put on record my thank to everybody in the town who have take part , and to my hon . friend the Member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) for his work on it . will the Minister work with the Treasury to ensure that there be maximum flexibility for local community in Arbroath and elsewhere in the UK , to ensure that we can bring these project to full fruition ? that be a very important point . we want to keep the promise make to the people of Arbroath , which be why I be very pleased that we have be able to do so through the long - term plan for town . go forward , as I have say to other colleague , we want to see a long - term , more allocative settlement that be drive by local people . as I stand in the church hall , with board after board after board of feedback from local resident about what they want to see , it only firm my resolve that they should be in charge , rather than we . I come away with Arbroath smokie — they be always worth a visit as well — but I be very impressed with what the town board be do . Energy Efficiency Standards whether she be take step to support landlord in upgrade housing stock to reach an EPC rating of C . this Government be commit to tackle fuel poverty and deliver warm , cheap home for tenant . we be currently consult on increase minimum energy efficiency standard in the private rent sector and continue to support landlord to meet the new standard through consultation . I understand the answer that the Minister just give , but when individual private landlord with just one or two property be come to my surgery to say they will simply sell up and remove those property from the private rent sector because they can not afford to bring property up to EPC C , when the National Trust be leave property in the village of Bradenham completely empty because it can not afford to bring those rural home up to EPC C , and when the charity Abbeyfield have close its Princes Risborough property because it could not afford to bring it up to EPC C , displace elderly and vulnerable resident , do the Minister agree that if the Government be to bring in new regulation , it be equally incumbent on they to help provide funding ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . raise standard in the private rented sector could lift up to 550 , 000 people out of fuel poverty . there be a number of scheme to support landlord to improve their property , and they can look at their eligibility through gov . uk . in particular , there be scheme such as the boiler upgrade scheme , which offer £ 7 , 500 off the cost of heat pump . we look forward to work in partnership with the sector , because we recognise that it be an important sector . some 13 % of household in England — over 3 million people — be officially in fuel poverty . do the Minister agree that the last Conservative Government do not just fail to meet their housing target , but leave a legacy of high household bill ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . we have inherit a massive challenge , and we be work at pace to tackle these issue , so that people can live safely and securely in their home and do not face such high cost . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) have highlight , simply put people out of their home be not a solution to fuel poverty . give that the figure very clearly show that the cost of the upgrade in many case massively exceed the financial benefit to either the tenant or the landlord , can the Minister give the House her personal assurance that this objective be realistic and achievable ? we recognise that it be important to get the balance right . the Renters ' Rights Bill will put in place new regulation to protect tenant , and as I have say , there be scheme to support landlord who need support . investment in a property be an important part of ownership , and improvement can lead to increase in property value , and in the attractiveness of let to tenant . Social Housing what step she be take to build more social housing . what step she be take to build more social housing in Kent . what step she be take to build more social housing . the Government be commit to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . in our first eight month in office , we have announce £ 800 million in new funding for the affordable home programme . this top - up will support the delivery of up to 7 , 800 new home , with more than half be social rent home . we will set out detail of new investment to succeed the 2021 - to - 2026 programme at the spending review . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . what measure will his Department consider to support council that find themselves in viability negotiation with developer , who sometimes push down the quota of social home and , indeed , affordable home ? I be aware of several scheme in my hon . friend ' s constituency that be have viability issue . financial support be indeed available . while the £ 500 million of new in - year funding for the affordable home programme announce at the Budget be already oversubscribe as a result of significant demand from housing provider across the country , the further allocation of £ 300 million , which we announce last month , will help ensure that more social and affordable home be deliver . in the case that my hon . friend describe , I would encourage both his local authority and local social housing provider to bid for that money . I recently visit Aylesham village with Persimmon Homes in my constituency , and I be delighted to see the number of solar panel on roof across the estate . what be this Government do to ensure that , for new build , include social housing new build , we deliver solar panel on every roof , high level of insulation , and charge point on driveway ? the previous Government , to their credit , introduce change to the building regulation that come into force in June 2022 , and under those standard , new home be be build with high - quality insulation and electric vehicle charging point . those standard also encourage the use of solar panel , or other form of low - carbon technology , such as heat pump . this Government intend to amend building regulation later this year , as part of the introduction of future standard that will set more ambitious energy efficiency and carbon emission requirement for new home . the most recent data show that nearly 11 , 500 people be stick in temporary accommodation in Wales , unable to move on from homelessness due to a shortage of social housing and unaffordable private rent . give the escalate need for affordable housing across the UK , what conversation have the Department have with the Welsh Government to urgently address this crisis and collaborate on quickly increase the availability of social home ? I understand well the pressure in Wales that my hon . friend describe so eloquently . we know that increase the supply of social home be a cornerstone of the Welsh Government ' s plan to prevent housing problem and homelessness . we speak regularly with our colleague in the Welsh Government , and we will continue to work closely with they on our share objective of get more social home build by council and housing association . build more social housing and affordable housing be a principal promise make by Leicestershire county council in the proposal for the Lutterworth East development . that development be subject to a call - in , so I do not want to go into any detail , but I want to ask the Minister this very basic question . if a senior civil servant in the Department give a commitment to an MP , to encourage that MP to drop an amendment to legislation , can the MP rely on the assurance give by that senior civil servant ? I note the question the hon . Member ask . we be grateful to all the civil servant who serve the Government for act with integrity . the civil service code be clear that civil servant must act truthfully and can not deceive or knowingly mislead Ministers or Parliament . if the hon . Gentleman have serious issue that he wish to raise regard civil servant , he can do so with the Department ' s permanent secretary . Chichester ' s plan policy dictate that 30 % of all home in new development should be social and affordable housing . however , we have recently notice a worrying trend of register provider refuse to take on contract in small and medium - sized development , and favour large development . that be put a lot of the social housing in Chichester at risk . what be the Minister do to ensure that register provider continue to take on small contract in mixed - use development ? we know that register provider be face real challenge when it come to their capacity , or headroom , to take on additional section 106 unit . the hon . Lady may be aware that we set up , through Homes England , a clearing service to try to well match developer with unit that be not be pick up . we be give lot more thought to what can be do in this area , and I be more than happy to speak to she about the option available to the Government . the building of more council house throughout the UK be welcome news , especially in Ashfield , where we have 7 , 000 people on the waiting list . do the Minister agree that when we be dish these house out , British - bear , hard - work taxpayer should be prioritise ? I would say to the hon . Gentleman that they already be . there be very strict requirement in place when it come to the allocation of social housing . as I be sure he know well , local criterion can be impose — I be not sure that his council have they in place — in term of the amount of time someone need to be resident in an area before they qualify for social rent housing . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . every day , another family contact my office because they be homeless , and they be place in a hostel , with no function kitchen and no private bathroom , mile away from their child ' s school . I be sure that other hon . member can say the same . what be bad be that the placement cost council at least three time as much as permanent social home . so - call affordable home be of no use to these family at all . at the same time , new home be be reject by register housing provider because the standard be not high enough . what be the Government do to progress the future home standard , so that the home be build be not reject by register home provider , who say that the home be not good enough for they , and will have to be retrofit ? I understand the point the hon . Lady be make . I refer she to my previous answer . the Government intend to bring forward , through change to building regulation , future standard that will increase the energy efficiency and carbon emission requirement on new build home . that will give housing association , in particular , that have get ahead of the change and standard the comfort that they need to start adopt those unit . local Government Funding what step she be take to help ensure that level of funding to local government be sufficient to fund public service . what step her Department be take to ensure area with high level of deprivation receive adequate funding . we of course recognise the challenge that local authority face , as demand increase for critical service . that be why the final settlement for 2025 - 26 make available over £ 69 billion for local government in England — a cash increase of 6 . 8 % in core spending power on 2024 - 25 . the most relatively deprive area of England will receive 23 % more per dwelling than the least deprived . of course , spend decision beyond this year be a matter for the upcoming spending review . I be grateful to the Minister for that response . he will be aware that since the Conservatives take control of Cornwall council four year ago , they have transform that authority from be financially sound to stare down the barrel of bankruptcy . Cornwall be a rural authority with urban level of deprivation and a super - age population . what assurance can the Minister give that , through the funding formula and plan for local authority , the Government will have due regard to the escalate cost for these local authority , not least as a result of the national insurance contribution hike ? the hon . Gentleman and all member of the House have our absolute commitment that when we revise the funding formula , we will ensure that it take into account all the matter he mention . the multi - year settlement be intend to give stability . we have to make sure that council be on their foot at the end of that . we recognise entirely that deprivation be a driver of cost , but so be the cost of rural service delivery . the 48th most deprived locality in England and five of the 10 most deprive locality under Kent county council be in my constituency , yet the council struggle to understand the level of deprivation and to adequately resource those locality . can the Minister assure my constituent that devolution and reorganisation of local government in Kent will ensure that their need be not ignore like this in the future ? I will not comment on individual council , other than to say that this be why local government reorganisation be so important . in too many part of England , the two - tier system be not work for local people . the two - tier premium mean that a two - tier system be a more expensive way of deliver public service , and most member of the public have no idea which council be responsible for deliver which service . it be therefore right that we go through this reform . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that , in the end , thing have to work for local people . all the matter that he cover be on our mind . we come to the shadow Secretary of State . the Minister mention local government reorganisation . on 5 February , the Deputy Prime Minister state : " we be postpone election for one year , from May 2025 to May 2026 " — [ Official Report , 5 February 2025 ; Vol . 761 , c . 767 . ] but on 17 February , the Minister , in a write parliamentary question , say that " new unitary … government will be establish or go - live in 2027 " or 2028 . will the Minister confirm that these election be not be postpone , and that they be , in fact , be cancel for up to three year , mean that councillor will serve term of up to seven year ? will he also confirm that the Deputy Prime Minister may have unintentionally mislead the House , and will he correct the record ? I can start by confirm that the Deputy Prime Minister do not mislead the House . the opposition would do well not to muddy the water . they know well than anybody what local government reorganisation mean . over the past few year , when they be in government , they postpone 17 set of election to allow reorganisation to take place . although election be be postpone in nine council , 24 set of election will still take place this year . let we not allow this to be whip up into something that it be not . we absolutely want to move at pace on reorganisation . we want to see proposal develop and present early — the soon the well — so that we can move to those shadow authority , and so that local people can elect the new body that will deliver public service in their area and be accountable to they . to be clear , nobody will benefit — not the leader of conservative council who have ask for postponement , nor member of the public — if we make the matter more confused than it need to be . Fire safety : Local Authority Planning what step she be take to help ensure that local authority planning process include fire safety assessment . building regulation set fire safety standard for new development , and building regulation and planning be , of course , a devolved matter . in England , developer submit planning application for high - rise residential development be require to submit , along with their planning application , a fire statement , set out fire safety consideration , and the local planning authority must also consult the Health and Safety Executive . an architect constituent of mine alert I to his concern about Camden council ' s approach to fire safety in an application to construct a 400 - guest underground hotel . at the planning stage , the London Fire Brigade express serious concern that the propose safety feature would be difficult to maintain and dangerous be they to fail . a freedom of information request reveal that the London Fire Brigade ' s fire safety compliance team feel that their concern be ignore by Camden council at planning . will the Minister commit to review regulation to see whether they be sufficient to ensure that local authority in England properly attend to serious concern raise by local fire brigade ? I be not sure that I can comment on the application the hon . Gentleman be talk about , as it will , of course , have be subject to the planning process as establish in law . however , I can say that one of the change that the Deputy Prime Minister make early on in our time in government be to ensure that approve document b can be update quickly and in real time , so that if issue be highlight , the regulation can keep up and building can be keep safe . last week , labour councillor in York deliver the first local plan — be you ready for this , Mr Speaker ? — since 1954 , for which they should be commend , but local authority need planning officer if they be to ensure that application can be process quickly . will the Minister update the House on plan to increase the number of planning officer ? I fondly remember — at least , I think I do — our consideration of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) remember it , too . at every sitting of the Public Bill Committee , my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) say that York have never produce a plan , so I be overjoy when I hear from the leader of York council this morning that it have have that success . of course , make these thing real involve really good planner , which be why we be pleased to have make a furth £ 46 million available for planning capacity . I call the shadow Minister . we note that the Government have choose not to take forward the Grenfell report recommendation relate to certification body on material safety . give the previous Minister ' s failure to reply to my question on the new use of european standard in respect of fire performance , will the new Minister assure the House that we can be absolutely confident that the fire safety performance regulation in place be clear , robust and effective ? they will be all those thing ; I believe that be a share goal . for clarity , we be take forward the recommendation . as we state last week , we do not think that the testing house ought to be under the purview of a single construction regulator , as that would mean that the regulator would essentially mark its own homework if there be a problem . I know Opposition Members have a problem with this , and I be more than happy to speak about it in great detail . we be look very closely at european standard , as the hon . Gentleman will have see in the " Construction Products Reform " Green Paper . alignment with those european standard be probably a desirable goal , but that be subject to the ongoing consultation . we be very clear that the current regime do not cover enough construction product . there be not enough transparency or accountability when thing go wrong . our desire , as have be express from the Dispatch Box , be for a very high standard regime , and I look forward to work with Opposition Members in service of that share goal . Town Centre Regeneration what step she be take to support council with town centre regeneration project . we all want to see our town centre thrive , and it be one of those thing that constituent raise with all of we . that be why we be delighted that at the Budget , the Chancellor confirm that the long - term plan will be retain and reform . the plan be work with 75 town across the UK , provide each with £ 20 million to support their regeneration . of course , this come on top of the innovation of high - street rental auction , and the forthcoming community right to buy . I thank the Minister for his answer . I be proud to have half of Morden town centre in my constituency . Morden be an area ripe for rejuvenation . it have fantastic transport link , but like many town centre across the country , it be struggle . as one Labour councillor recently note in the council chamber , despite year of promise to regenerate Morden , Labour - run Merton council have fail to deliver . just last week , it again put off do anything — this time until at least 2027 . will the Minister meet I to discuss why the council have fail to begin rejuvenation over the last 30 year , and to discuss what support the Government can now give ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation , which , of course , I will take up . the experience that he talk about be not uncommon in the rest of the country ; certainly , over the last 14 year , there have be very little progress . I know that Merton council , for example , be invest some £ 300 , 000 in brighten and refresh Morden town centre , but I know the council , like the hon . Gentleman , want to see more do . I will be happy to sit down to talk to he about that . I warmly welcome today ' s announcement of £ 20 million in community regeneration partnership money for Rochdale . this money will far revitalise our town centre and the area around our train station , as well as expand our brilliant Hopwood Hall college . do this prove what can happen when we have a Labour Government work with a Labour council and a Labour MP to revive an area ? it absolutely do . my hon . friend have be dog , almost to the point of — well , I will not say to what point — on secure money for Rochdale . I know this money will make a real difference . despite this be yet another thing that be not fund by the previous Government , we be delighted to have be able to secure this funding , which I know will have a great impact . I look forward to visit . New Housing : Protected Landscapes whether her Department be take step to ensure housing target account for protect landscape . the Government be commit to maintain strong protection for our protect landscape . we be clear that the scale and extent of development within such designate area should be limited , so that we be able to pass on their attraction and important biodiversity to future generation . national planning policy be clear that significant development within a national landscape should be refuse , other than in exceptional circumstance where it can be demonstrate that the development be in the public interest . West Dorset desperately need new housing that be actually affordable for local people , especially key worker and young family look to get on the housing ladder , but 70 % of West Dorset fall within a protect national landscape , formerly an area of outstanding natural beauty . rigid housing target could lead to inappropriate development that undermine the character of this protect area . what discussion have the Department have with local authority in Dorset on adjust housing target to reflect the constraint of the national landscape and our rural infrastructure challenge ? local authority use the standard method to assess housing need , but they can show evidence of any hard constraint in their area , include protect landscape . those will be assess by the Planning Inspectorate to judge whether the plan be sound . we be clear that local authority should explore all option to deliver the home that their community need , include maximise the use of brownfield land , work with neighbouring authority and , where appropriate , review their green belt . Building Safety Documentation what step she be take to help people impact by EWS1 fire safety certificate issue by Tri Fire . if she will take step to support resident impact by market disruption due to incorrect building safety documentation . the external wall system 1 form be a tool develop by mortgage lender to inform valuation , and be not a fire safety certificate . we be work very closely with the industry to encourage they to take a proportional approach to form issue by Tri Fire . lender who have sign the industry planning statement should accept alternative evidence as part of mortgage application , but if an individual have concern about the fire safety of their building , they should contact the person responsible for it . I be grateful for that answer , but in an answer to a write parliamentary question last week the Minister suggest that if a leaseholder can not use an EWS1 fire safety certificate to progress the sale and purchase of their home , they should use the fire risk assessment . however , in many case , include in my constituency , both the EWS1 form and the fire risk assessment be most likely invalid , if not fraudulent . in those circumstance , what measure can be take to prioritise fire risk assessment for those leaseholder ? what can be do to protect leaseholder from the additional cost of conduct another fire safety assessment after the one that they conduct in good faith ? if the building be in one of the government - back scheme , such as the cladding safety scheme , the fire risk assessment will have be quality assure by the Government , which will provide assurance . if it be cover by the developer contract , it will have be audit by the Department , so that ought to give cover as well . if neither of those thing be the case , I be more than happy to talk to the hon . Lady about how to give resident surety so that they can evidence to lender that their building be safe . hon . member across the House have raise concern about the now - expel fire safety engineer Adam Kiziak , follow investigation into alleged signature fraud , include in my constituency of Surrey Heath . from what I understand , a second fire engineer , Adair Lewis , have now disown a further 20 Tri Fire EWS1 form that he allege falsely bear his signature . will the Secretary of State join I in request an urgent police investigation into these fraud allegation ? do she agree that her Department must urgently reassess building that have be survey by Tri Fire to protect resident from further uncertainty and market disruption ? I stress that the EWS1 form be an industry form rather than a fire safety one . if those building be in a Government scheme , any fire risk assessment will have be quality assured . if they be in the developer contract , those scheme have be audit as well , which should give cover . I would not want to speak about individual case at the Dispatch Box . we believe that the quality of those assessment must be sacrosanct and they must be do in good faith . that be why , as part of our response to the Grenfell inquiry , we have make significant commitment on standard in this area . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . in a write ministerial statement on 21 November , the Government commit to take step to bring the feudal leasehold system to an end and to reinvigorate commonhold to make it the default tenure for new flat . today mark the first step in the transition , with the publication of the " Commonhold White Paper " , which set out the Government ' s proposal for how a reform commonhold model will operate , base on the recommendation of the Law Commission . the last government ' s disastrous change to permit development right see over 100 , 000 office and retail unit convert into unsafe and unsuitable home . in Southampton , they have leave people live with office wire still hang from the ceiling . some have no window , and other ' home be no big than a car parking space . I welcome the Government ' s excellent progress on renter ' and leaseholder ' right , but will my right hon . friend go far and confirm when permit development right will be review , tight regulation impose and , where necessary , unsafe conversion ban ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that issue . we acknowledge that there have be criticism of some home deliver through permit development right — particularly those that enable commercial building such as office and shop to change use to residential — and the Government be commit to keep development right under review . I call the shadow Secretary of State . help to Buy help 350 , 000 young first - time buyer and the stamp duty discount help 640 , 000 first - time buyer get on the housing ladder with discount of up to £ 11 , 000 . both be now scrap . be the Secretary of State pull up the housing ladder behind she ? it be staggering that the shadow Secretary of State say that , give that so many people now can not get housing because his government fail to meet their housing target . we will have a mortgage guarantee scheme and we will build 1 . 5 million home so that young people and other people can get the house that they deserve . I will try again . the Government ' s manifesto promise to preserve the green belt . then grey belt come along , which be suppose to be a few garage forecourt . now it turn out that grey belt will mean 640 square mile of green belt — the size of Surrey — be to be build on . be this simply another broken promise ? I will also try again . under the Tories , the number of home approve on greenfield land increase nearly tenfold since 2009 . labour will be strategic in grey belt release , and we will have a brownfield - first policy . many family in my constituency live in new housing estate where the developer have make their profit , sail off into the sunset , and leave the road and service in an unacceptable state and unadopted . what step might the Government be able to take to push local authority like Northumberland county council into action to accept their responsibility and adopt those estate ? I well recognise the situation that my hon . friend describe , but I also recognise the reluctance of local authority to take on substandard housing estate that have be build . we have decide to consult this year on option to reduce the prevalence of private management of estate of the kind he describe . we will also , importantly , implement new consumer protection for homeowner on private estate in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Homelessness stat publish last week show that rough sleeping have increase for the third year in a row and be now 91 % high than in 2021 , yet the Vagrancy Act 1824 have not be repeal and rough sleeping be still a criminal offence . in July 2024 , the Minister be ask for a progress report and advise that consideration of relevant legislation be need , but it be now more than three year since Parliament vote to repeal the Act . will she now give we a date when that will come into force ? we be take urgent action to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping and have announce £ 60 million to tackle winter pressure . we will update the House on progress in repeal the Vagrancy Act in due course . in Scotland , 10 , 000 child be currently homeless and record level of child be in temporary accommodation . the number of social house build by housing association in Scotland be at its low level since Margaret Thatcher . do the Minister agree that the SNP have take Scotland in the wrong direction and that instead we need to see the bold action take by this UK Labour Government to build more home replicate in Scotland , with a Scottish Labour Government in 2026 ? I agree with my hon . friend . last year , as the housing emergency take hold , the SNP Government cut £ 200 million from the affordable housing budget . it be only as a result of Labour ' s record budget settlement that they be force to reverse those cut , but they be still not show the adequate ambition that we need . the SNP Government must set out a real plan to reform planning and boost house building to meet their affordable housing target . in response to the minimum energy efficiency standard consultation for privately rent home , landlord group be say that they would pass the cost of energy efficiency work on to tenant , despite that be the cost of bring their property up to basic minimum standard . rely on council guidance that that should not happen be too weak . what additional measure will the Minister take to enforce that and ensure that it be private tenant — who be already at the great risk of fuel poverty — who will benefit , and not landlord ? I refer the hon . member to my early answer to that precise question . the Renters ' Rights Bill will protect tenant from have cost pass on to they . many of my constituent face extortionate hike in service charge while get little in return , with repair not be carry out , poor service and a lack of transparency and accountability from their manage agent , FirstPort . can the Minister outline what the Government be do to bring an end to the scandalous fleecehold system that be rip off leaseholder across the country ? to add to the response I give early , we intend to take action to provide leaseholder with the transparency of standardised service charge invoice , so that they can well challenge unreasonable rent hike . we also need to strengthen the regulation of manage agent , include those such as FirstPort that , as be clear from the feeling in the House , be not perform the necessary service for their resident . welcome though the hundred of million of pound extra for adult social care in the Budget be , can the Secretary of State confirm that the cost of rise in national insurance contribution and the minimum wage will run into the billion , and that local authority will in fact be bad off than they be prior to the Budget in tackle social care ? can she confirm that — yes or no ? that be exactly the reason that there be £ 3 . 7 billion of new money for adult social care in the Budget . Eden Portland be an exciting proposal for my community and , much like the Eden Project in Cornwall and Morecambe , it would be a hub for education and ecology . if deliver , it would boost investment and create well - pay job . I know that minister agree that this could be a real success story , so will they meet I and the team at Eden Portland , alongside colleague from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the council , to discuss how we can deliver this exciting project ? I welcome the exciting Eden Portland proposal and I enjoy meet my hon . friend to hear far from he . it be clear that it would be great for the area ' s economic regeneration , for tourism in the region and for support great understanding of biodiversity loss . colleague at DCMS be work closely with the proposer and with official in my Department , but I would be happy to involve myself in whatever way be useful . the planning proposal for Laindon Road and Mountnessing Road in Billericay and for Noak Bridge be previously reject because of the green belt aspect but be now be reconsider under grey belt . will the Minister urgently meet I , the Billericay Action Group and some of the local councillor to look at the issue around where grey belt be perhaps not be use in the way the Government originally intend ? local authority can be clear about how grey belt should be use because we release planning policy guidance last week to give they a well sense of where it be appropriate to be release and be bring forward for development . far too many renter get a terrible deal , live in cold , mouldy substandard home and be charge eye - water rent by landlord . I be proud of this Government ' s Renters ' Rights Bill , but while legislation be welcome , too many be still pay extortionate price for really shoddy property . can the Secretary of State assure I that the Government be take more step to make renting affordable again ? I assure my hon . friend of that fact , and we be also succeed where the previous Government fail , in that we be finally abolish section 21 no - fault eviction . the Renters ' Rights Bill will empower tenant to challenge unreasonable within - tenancy rent increase . we also need to boost supply , which be why we set the hugely ambitious milestone , as part of our plan for change , of build 1 . 5 million safe and decent home in this Parliament . in the Lake district and the dale of Cumbria , average house price be around 20 time average household income . will the Minister try to tackle this issue by make sure that there be a specific and unappealable designation of social housing - only development that national park authority and local council can enforce ? we want to see far great use of rural exception site in particular , and I be more than happy to sit down with the hon . Gentleman — I think we have already plan to do so — to discuss short - term let as well as this issue . I have recently receive a number of complaint from my constituent about leasehold manage agent . these include unacceptably long delay for repair — order . it be totally unfair when a Member be speak to block the vision of the Chair . these include unacceptably long delay for repair and exorbitant cost at Greenmount Court in Smithills , despite spiral fee , poor transparency and little to no communication from the agent . what step be the Minister take to deliver a fair deal for exist leaseholder and to hold poorly perform manage agent to account ? we need to balance speed with care , because we will not make the mistake that the previous Government do and pass flawed legislation that require we to fix it , therefore delay reform for leaseholder . we will , as soon as possible , introduce the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , which will allow we , as I say , to bring in transparency around service charge to allow leaseholder to well challenge unreasonable increase , and we intend to strengthen the regulation of manage agent . on 8 February , the Court — a grade II list landmark in Chorleywood in my constituency — burn down in mysterious circumstance . I meet the three local councillor — Councillors Cooper , Hearn and Reed — on Friday to discuss the matter . I be not ask the Secretary of State to comment on this specific case , but will she confirm that where list building be destroy without permission , there should be a presumption that they be rebuild brick by brick to how they be before the destruction ? I be sorry to hear about that particular case , and I be happy to meet the hon . member to get the detail ; absolutely , list building be an important part of our landscape . at nearly every single one of my advice surgery , leaseholder in Stratford and Bow have tell I appal story of disrepair , high service charge and no accountability from management agent , after year of broken promise of reform by the Conservative Government . I be pleased about today ' s announcement on leasehold reform for new build , but will the Minister assure my constituent about what concrete action will be take for exist leaseholder ? the publication of the " Commonhold White Paper " today mark the beginning of the end of the feudal leasehold system . we will succeed where the previous Government fail and bring that system to an end , but we be determined to provide immediate relief for leaseholder suffer from unreasonable and unfair charge at present . I rise to gently follow up on a critical request for urgent help that I make in November . in September 2023 , Kirklees council temporarily close Dewsbury sport centre for safety reason due to reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . the centre remain closed until 5 November 2024 when the council unilaterally decide to permanently close the centre without investigation . I raise the issue with the Secretary of State for DCMS and have write to the Prime Minister and the Chancellor for assistance . will the Deputy Prime Minister facilitate an update for I on the issue ? the hon . Member make an important point around safety and RAAC in our public building . we be absolutely committed to do all we can , despite the legacy give to we by the previous Government . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) . Ukraine Less than a week since I call on this House to show the courage of our predecessor , we see clearly before we the test of our time , a crossroad in our history . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will update the House on my effort to secure a strong , just and last peace follow Russia ' s vile invasion of Ukraine . it begin in this House , where on Tuesday I announce the big sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war — a recognition of the fact that , once again , we live in an era where peace in Europe depend upon strength and deterrence , but also a rediscovery of the old post - war argument , long hold on these Benches , that economic security be national security . because the demand we now have to make of Britain must come alongside a new foundation of security for work people . the tough choice that we make last week be not do . we must use the process of get to 3 % of our national income spend on defence to fundamentally rebuild british industry , and use our investment in military spending to create new job and apprenticeship in every part of the country . that be why last night I announce a deal that perfectly symbolise the new era : a partnership with Ukraine that allow they to use £ 1 . 6 billion of UK Export Finance to buy 5 , 000 air defence missile , manufacture in Belfast . that mean UK job , UK skill and UK finance pull together for our national interest , put Ukraine in the strong possible position for peace , and protect innocent civilian from the terror of russian drone . my effort continue on Thursday , when I meet President Trump in the White House to strengthen our relationship with America . now , what happen in his subsequent meeting with President Zelensky be something nobody in this House want to see . but I do want to be crystal clear : we must strengthen our relationship with America . for our security , for our technology and for our trade and investment , they be and always will be indispensable . and we will never choose between either side of the Atlantic — in fact , if anything , the past week have show that that idea be totally unserious . while some people may enjoy the simplicity of take a side , this week have show with total clarity that the US be vital in secure the peace we all want to see in Ukraine . I welcome the opportunity for a new economic deal with the US , confirm by the President last week , because it be an opportunity that I be determined to pursue . I welcome the positive discussion that we have on european security , include his clear support for article 5 of NATO . I welcome the understanding , from our dialogue , that our two nation will work together on security arrangement for a last peace in Ukraine . I also welcome the President ' s continued commitment to that peace , which nobody in this House should doubt for a second be sincere . I now turn to the event of this weekend and the move scene that greet President Zelensky as he arrive in London on Saturday . I see for myself that he be take aback when the crowd in Whitehall cheer at the top of their voice . they be speak for the whole of our country — a reminder that this Government , this House and this nation stand in unwavere support behind he and the people of Ukraine . we resolve together to move forward the strong cause of a just and last peace in Ukraine . then on Sunday I host european leader from across our continent , equally committed to this cause , include President Macron , Prime Minister Meloni , the leader of NATO , of the European Commission and of the European Council , and the Prime Minister of Canada — a vital ally of this country , the Commonwealth and Ukraine , responsible for training over 40 , 000 ukrainian troop . I also have the privilege beforehand of speak online to the leader of Estonia , Lithuania and Latvia , each of whom , close as they be to the frontline with Russia , stress the urgency of the moment . it be a productive summit . together , we agree a clear strategy : that the United Kingdom , France and our ally will work closely with Ukraine on a plan to stop the fighting , which we will then discuss directly with the United States . it be a plan with four clear principle , which I will now share in full with the House . first , we must keep the military aid to Ukraine flow and keep increase the economic pressure on Russia . to that end , alongside our partnership on air defence , we be double down on military aid . already this year , we have take our support to record level . on Saturday , we also agree a new £ 2 . 2 billion loan for Ukraine , back not by the british taxpayer but by the profit from frozen russian asset . second , we agree that any last peace must guarantee the sovereignty and security of Ukraine , and that Ukraine must be at the table when negotiate their future — that be absolutely vital . third , we agree that in the event of a peace deal we will continue to boost Ukraine ' s defence and Ukraine ' s deterrence . finally , fourth : we agree to develop a coalition of the willing , ready to defend a deal in Ukraine and guarantee the peace . after all , the ukrainian position be completely understandable . for they , the war do not begin three year ago ; that be merely the late and most brutal escalation . they have sign agreement with Putin before . they have experience the nature of his diplomacy and the calibre of his word . we can not accept a weak deal like Minsk again . no , we must proceed with strength , and that do now require urgently a coalition of the willing . we agree on Sunday that those willing to play a role in this will intensify planning now , and , as this House would expect , Britain will play a lead role — with , if necessary , and together with other , boot on the ground and plane in the air . it be right that Europe do the heavy lifting to support peace on our continent , but to succeed this effort must also have strong US backing . I want to assure the House that I take none of this lightly . I have visit british troop in Estonia , and no aspect of my role weigh more heavily than the deployment of british troop in the service of defence and security in Europe . yet I do feel very strongly that the future of Ukraine be vital for our national security . Russia be a menace in our water and sky . they have launch cyber - attack on our NHS and make assassination attempt in our street . in this House , we stand by Ukraine because it be the right thing to do , but we also stand by they because it be in our interest to do so . if we do not achieve a last peace , the instability and insecurity that have hit the living standard of work people in Britain will only get bad and Putin ' s appetite for conflict and chaos will only grow . a strong peace , a just peace and a last peace : that have now to be our goal . it be vital , it be in our interest and in its pursuit Britain will lead from the front . for the security of our continent , the security of our country and the security of the british people , we must now win the peace . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement , and for our conversation early today . the United Kingdom be a free , democratic and sovereign country . we recognise that Ukraine be fight for her survival and fighting to have the same freedom , democracy and sovereignty that all of we here enjoy . that be why both the Opposition and the Government be fully commit to support Ukraine and President Zelensky . I be also glad to see his Majesty the King welcome President Zelensky at Sandringham . as I say at the weekend , President Zelensky be a hero . he be a symbol of the bravery of the ukrainian people . there be of course many area where the Prime Minister and I disagree , but now be the time for we to discuss where we do agree . I welcome all his action this weekend to convene european leader , as well as the focus on economic security , use UK Export Finance to support british job . as the Prime Minister know , we welcome the uplift in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 , and we support the use of foreign aid to achieve that . we welcome a commitment to reach 3 % in the year ahead , and we will support he in take difficult spending decision , include on welfare . we will return to the detail of how the Government will fund this in the near future , but for now it be right that the Prime Minister be work with ally in Europe and with the United States to bring peace to Ukraine , and not a surrender to Russia . as part of that , the Prime Minister have suggest that british troop could be deploy in Ukraine . there be obviously a range of possible option for what such a deployment could look like , and we be keen to work with the Government , but we will need detail of any such plan . this will be a difficult but significant step . I know many in Parliament , and across our country , will be interested in what this entail , and I ask he to work with we so there can be effective scrutiny . I also welcome the coalition of the willing to support Ukraine and agree that Europe must do the heavy lifting . will the Prime Minister update we on what european and other ally be willing to offer towards this coalition ? I welcome the use of the proceed from frozen russian asset to support Ukraine . do the Prime Minister have plan to go far and use the frozen asset themselves ? will he provide an update on the Government ' s sanction on Russian - link individual and confirmation that such sanction would not be lift in the event of a ceasefire ? will he update we on the step that he and other ally be take to ensure that Ukraine be at the negotiating table for any peace plan ? what do he think can be do to heal the rift with Washington ? as the Prime Minister reference in his speech , the Minsk agreement of 2015 fail to stop russian aggression and ultimately do not return Ukraine ' s territorial integrity . his second principle be that any last peace guarantee the sovereignty of Ukraine , so how will the Prime Minister work to ensure we avoid a repeat of the Minsk agreement ? how can we ensure that any peace fully protect ukrainian sovereignty ? at time like these , it be so important that we stand together to defend share value and the fundamental basic principle that aggressor should not win . the Prime Minister will have our support to do that and to ensure that we continue to uphold the value that all of we in this Parliament hold dear . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for her message and for our discussion this morning , and I thank she for her support for the measure that we be take . it matter across this House that we be unite on this issue , it matter to the Ukrainians and to President Zelensky . I can tell the right hon . Lady that he be move by the reception that he get in our country on Saturday , and I feel very proud to be british on Saturday when our country speak with one voice . the right hon . Lady reflect that through the unity that have be show from member from across the House , and I thank for that . the right hon . Lady ask about the detail of any deployment . we will , of course , put detail before the House when we get to that stage — if we get to that stage . as I mention in our phone call this morning , I will ensure she get whatever briefing she need to be able to look at the detail before it be put before the House , so she be fully inform . on the question of other ally , we have a long meeting yesterday with a number of ally . my strong view be that we have to move forward and lead from the front , and therefore we need a coalition of the willing . otherwise , we will move at the speed of the most reluctant , which will be too slow . a number of country and ally indicate their support ; they will set that out in due course . I will not pretend that every country be in the same place on this issue . that be why I and other take the view that we should take a lead position and move forward , but I will give further detail as they become available . on the question of the frozen asset , the proceed — the profit — be be use in the way that the House understand , in accordance with the statement I have just make . on use the asset themselves , it be a very complicated issue and not straightforward , but we need to do , and we be do , more work to look at the possibility , along with other country , but I be not go to pretend that that be simple or straightforward . on the sanction , we introduce last week the heavy sanction that we have put in place , and the right hon . Lady be quite right that they must not be lift just because there be a cessation in the fighting . they must be keep in place as a vital part of our armoury — something that do not happen with Minsk . she be quite right to say that we have to avoid the mistake of the past , which be why a security guarantee be so important — a guarantee that we should lead , but which need US backing if it be to act as a proper guarantee . of course she be right to say that Ukraine must be at the table in any discussion about the future of Ukraine , and I think that be a common position across the House . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . we all watch with alarm and distress the scene from the White House on Friday , but equally , across the country , we be extremely grateful that we have a Prime Minister who have such a pitch - perfect response at the weekend . as he work towards a just peace for Ukraine , he have the support of the whole country in do so . here be the question . the Prime Minister say on " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " that follow the cut to the aid budget , he would go through line by line to ensure that the priority of Ukraine , Sudan and Gaza be all prioritise in a last peace . the difficulty be that after refugee cost , admin cost and the Department ' s commitment to thing like the World Bank and the UN be take into account , it be hard to believe that there will be enough leave in the budget to provide meaningful humanitarian support in those priority area . do the Prime Minister understand the concern of so many that these cut could in fact , in the long term , hobble the very leadership that he have show this weekend , which have finally give the world some hope ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . it be a very important issue . what I do last week be to announce the big sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war , and the circumstance and the context require it . that decision have to be make , and I be determined that it would be fully fund so the House could see where the money would come from . on the question of overseas aid , I be committed to it . what we will now do be go through line by line the funding and look at our priority . of course , Ukraine , Sudan and Gaza be right up there in our priority , but I also want to work with other , and across the House if we can , on other way of raise money and finance for development and aid overseas . I see the president of the World Bank on Friday to have that very discussion ; I want to have it , and I mention it in my discussion with other country this weekend , many of which want to join in attempt to find other way to leverage money , particularly from the private sector , where state can not do it in the way that they might want to just at the moment . that be the approach we will take . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . we be all horrify by Friday ' s scene in the Oval Office . President Trump ' s attack on the brave and dignified President Zelensky leave everyone shock and appal — except , it seem , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . nobody else watch those scene could fail to understand that we have enter a new era — one in which the United States prefer to align itself with tyrant like Putin , rather than its democratic partner . on these Benches , we have support the Prime Minister ' s action and leadership — Britain lead the world , as we have so many time in the past , bring together Europe and Canada in London to work towards a just peace that guarantee Ukraine ' s sovereignty and security — but we need to reduce our dependency on the United States . with deep regret , I fear that President Trump be not a reliable ally in respect of Russia . in that regard , do the Prime Minister discuss with our european ally our proposal for a new rearmament bank and for seize the ten of billion of pound - worth of russian asset to support Ukraine ? in his conversation with the canadian Prime Minister , be he clear that we stand with our Commonwealth ally in the face of President Trump ' s threat ? many of we be confuse by Lord Mandelson ' s comment yesterday , so can the Prime Minister confirm that they do not represent Government policy ? do he agree that the british ambassador should not be freelance on american tv ? the Prime Minister will have our support if the UK continue to lead with our european and Commonwealth ally for Ukraine ' s defence and our collective security . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he talk about the scene on Friday afternoon — nobody want to see that . my response be to recognise the urgency of the need to repair the breach , which be why I speak to President Trump and President Zelensky on Friday night , and again on Saturday night . I be continue in that work , because for I , the single most important thing be last peace in Europe and Ukraine . nothing be go to deter I from that or cause I to lose my focus on it . on the dependency on the US , I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman . the US and the UK have the close of relationship ; our defence , security and intelligence be completely intertwine . no two country be as close as our two country , and at a time like this , it would be a huge mistake to suggest that any weakening of that link be the way forward for security and defence in Europe . on the question of a rearmament bank , yes , I do think we should continue discussion with other as to what the possibility could be . that form some of the discussion yesterday with our ally . on asset , again , the right hon . Gentleman know that the situation be complicated , but there be ongoing discussion . I speak at length with the canadian Prime Minister yesterday , because we have a bilateral meeting as well as the meeting with other colleague . in that meeting , I be able to assure he of our strong support for Canada , which be a close ally of our and a strong supporter of Ukraine . Canada have lead the way on the training that have be so vital to Ukraine , so it be very welcome at the table yesterday . in relation to the ambassador ' s comment , the plan be clear . we be work , particularly with the French — I have extensive conversation with President Macron over the past week and intensively over the weekend — and talk to Ukraine as well . those conversation be go on at the moment , and the intention be to then have discussion with the United States in relation to that plan . as soon as the detail be available , I will share they with the House , but they be still be work on at the moment . there be no guarantee of success , but I be not go to let up until we have do everything we can to ensure peace in Europe and peace for Ukraine . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , the warmth of his welcome and hug for President Zelensky , and his show of leadership on defence and security matter in our continent as he host his Sunday summit of leader in London . can my right hon . and learn Friend assure the House that in our pursuit of a just , last peace , he will do his level well to convince President Trump to provide security guarantee for Ukraine , and to convince those NATO ally that be not spend 2 % of gdp on defence to step up to the plate and do much more ? first , I be of course talk to President Trump about security guarantee — that form a large part of our discussion on Thursday and our subsequent discussion . I think it be right that Europe do the forward lean on this . we have to do more on security guarantee , but those guarantee need a US backing , and that be the very discussion that I be have . on the question of spending , across Europe in this era , we now have to step up on capability , co - ordination and spending . that do form part of our discussion yesterday . I find myself in the strange and rather uncomfortable position of very much agree with the Prime Minister on everything he have say today . while I often take great delight in criticism of the Government , the Prime Minister do not really put a foot wrong this weekend . however , he do need to go far . the small increase in defence spending that he announce be welcome , but fundamentally , we need a gear shift on this . I echo the point make by my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition that when — and it will be when , not if — he have to make some really difficult decision about balance defence spending against domestic expenditure , we will not try to play politic . we will support he , because we need to send a message now to our friend in Ukraine and to potential aggressor around the world that we take our defence , the defence of our value , and the defence of our friend seriously . I thank the right hon . gentleman for the unity across the House , and he be absolutely right . it send a message to those who want to challenge our value when they see this House unite , whether on Ukraine or defence spending . we have to face this era with confidence and with unity across this House , wherever we can . it have be good to have he agree with I — we should do this more often . first , I thank the Prime Minister for the leadership he have show in pull together all our ally yesterday in London and for acknowledge the bravery and sacrifice of the people of Ukraine . I be in Ukraine last week . I meet the mayor of Kharkiv , a frontline city of 2 million people undergo daily attack and blackout from russian force . he tell I that a power project fund by the United States Agency for International Development have be cancel at short notice . it would have generate 11 . 2 MW , shore up their energy pipeline . where other have step back , will we step forward and support such project , use either russian asset or our own aid budget ? power supply be hugely important in Ukraine . let we face it : power and energy have be weaponise by Putin ; that be why he be attack the power supply to community across Ukraine . we will work with Ukraine to ensure that its people have the security and power supply they need as we go forward . I call the Father of the House . our enemy should know that our Prime Minister have 100 % support from we . I notice in Moscow that they be refer to the small size of the British Army . perhaps the Prime Minister could remind they of what the Kaiser say in 1914 about " the contemptible little british Army " . will the Prime Minister tell President Putin and other tyrant that our Army , the most professional in the world , be quite capable of give as good as it get ? to continue the historical allusion , as in 1939 , if we do stand up to the mark with the French , it be good to have a security guarantee from the Americans . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his unity , because that be really important . I think I speak for the whole House in say that we be very proud of our armed force in everything that they do . they be at the leading edge . they be play a key part in Ukraine , and they will continue to play a key part in the security and defence of Europe . I congratulate the Prime Minister on bring european leader together at the weekend and on set the record straight with J . d . vance on the issue of free speech . President Zelensky be resilient and brave , just like the nation that he represent . in the second week of the war , when I go to Ukraine with my medical team , we could see at first hand that there be absolutely nothing that the Russians will not do . will the Prime Minister promise that our support will not waver , and that he will continue work closely with our european ally to make sure that we bring about peace in Ukraine ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . we will not waver . we will work with our ally . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement express the United Kingdom ' s unequivocal support for President Zelensky and Ukraine . in view of the Prime Minister ' s cut to the aid budget , and with the eye of the world focus on Zelensky , Ukraine and Russia , can he please reassure the House that he will not forget about the middle east , and in particular the decision by Netanyahu ' s government to block aid to Gaza ? what representation be he make on behalf of the Government to reverse that ? it be a breach of international law . let I be really clear : the decision to block aid go into Gaza be completely wrong and should not be support in this House . on the contrary , more desperately need aid should be go into Gaza at speed and at volume , and we be make those representation . I congratulate the Prime Minister on his strong leadership in his response to the fast - move event of the weekend . will he recommit to increase international aid spending to 0 . 7 % when the fiscal circumstance allow ? yes , I want to restore aid and development funding as soon as fiscal event allow . it be a principle I believe in , and I be proud of what we have do . in the meantime , I want to explore which other lever we can use to increase aid and development without necessarily increase the spend within the Government budget . there be many issue on which the Prime Minister and I will passionately disagree , but when it come to the security of Ukraine and support for President Zelensky , we be of course unite . I too commend the Prime Minister for his announcement yesterday , and on his partnership during the summit with our european and , indeed , our canadian ally . unfortunately , it have be report this afternoon that President Trump be set to meet american aide to discuss withdraw military aid to Ukraine . be those report something that the Prime Minister recognise , and , if so , what impact will that have on the timetable to which he and President Macron be currently work ? I have not see report of the United States withdraw support for Ukraine , and , as I understand it , that be not its position . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support on this issue , although I be somewhat concerned that the Scottish National party be continue its suggestion that now be the time to abandon the nuclear deterrent . if ever there be a time to reaffirm support for a nuclear deterrent , it be now . we must not reduce our security and defence . the SNP ' s decision be completely wrong - headed , and it should reconsider . the Prime Minister ' s action this week demonstrate again why UK leadership in defence and security and on Ukraine be crucial . I also agree with he that it be important to strengthen our relationship with the United States . in the come month , will he consider whether we should be propose to hit 3 % spending before the next election ? we need to do what it take . I set out our position last week , which be that spending will be 2 . 5 % by 2027 and 3 % in the next Parliament , as fiscal circumstance allow . the Prime Minister should surely be commend both for the meeting that he hold in the White House last week and for the effective leadership that he show over the weekend . will he bear in mind , as he seek to forge this coalition of the willing with urgency and vigour , that the gdp of Russia be some $ 2 trillion , while the gdp of the six european member of NATO that be the most committed be more than seven time that , at $ 15 trillion ? that should surely add to the effectiveness of the deterrent and the work that he be now do with european ally . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that point . we must not lose sight of the fact that the russian economy be be damage by the measure that we be take collectively , particularly on sanction , and we should have self - confidence in the ability of Europe to pull together , whether that be on military or financial issue , for the collective security of the defence of Europe . we have say many time that Europe need to step up . now be the time to step up ; now be the time to lead . that be why I be pleased that in the last few day we move thing on a little in that regard . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for his continued strong leadership . in contribute troop , drone and munition , Russia ' s ally remain active participant in Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . will the Prime Minister please assure the House that alongside our ally we be closely monitor Russia ' s strategic partner during the ongoing peace effort ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we continue to do that . we need to bear down on Russia and all those who support Russia in this illegal war . we welcome the increase in defence spending , but when I serve there be more than 100 , 000 troop and today there be just over 74 , 000 . it be essential that we reverse the Conservatives ' irresponsible 10 , 000 troop cut . will the Prime Minister commit to reverse this devastating cut so that the UK can credibly support collective european security in the absence of US support ? we will be undertake a strategic review of our capability , gauge it against our challenge , and , obviously , I will put the result before the House in due course . I would just caution against the suggestion in the second part of the hon . Lady ' s question — if I have get it right — that somehow we should take this as a moment to go it alone without the US . I fundamentally disagree ; I think that would be wrong . we have never choose that course in our history , and we should not choose it now . I thank the Prime Minister for today ' s statement , and for his diplomatic effort to restore our international reputation since take office . will my right hon . friend confirm the basic principle that no decision can be make about the future of Ukraine without include its elect leadership in the negotiation , and that any ceasefire must be adhere to by russian aggressor and not just the Ukrainians ? I agree on both proposition . Ukraine need to be at the table . there have to be security guarantee , because we know from history that Putin do not honour agreement that do not have security guarantee . that be precisely why we need one . I echo the thank to the Prime Minister for his leadership over recent day . he have definitely speak for Britain when he have speak on the world stage . may I ask he to join I in thank the parliamentary staffer who , while he be do that , be drive aid to Ukraine ? quite rightly , the Prime Minister have bring together a coalition of european and NATO partner . be he work on those far afield ? as he know very well , Australia have already donate Bushmasters , and many be concerned about Iran ' s support for the Russians through its shahed drone programme . be he reach out to our middle eastern ally as well ? I thank the parliamentary staffer who have do such significant and important work . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s important question about reach out beyond Europe , I agree with he and we be do that . this need to be as broad a coalition as we can put together , with different capability . each country should make whichever contribution be the most significant from its point of view , and I thank he for his support over the weekend . the Prime Minister deserve plaudit for the skilful way in which he handle his visit to Washington last week , as he do for the resolve that he have show in stand against Russia ' s illegal invasion of the sovereign state of Ukraine . surely , though , this be a moment to accept that the post - war international settlement have now be fractured and that the necessary rise in defence spending should be achieve by change the fiscal rule , not by cut to international aid , which will only see more people slay by famine , drought , disaster and war . the reason why we will not change the fiscal rule be that we need economic stability . we experience economic instability only a few year ago , under Liz Truss . the loss to our aid budget and all budget would be far more profound if we go back to instability , and I be not prepared to do it . it may be a great irony that a remainer Prime Minister use our Brexit freedom as effectively as he do yesterday . indeed , as No . 10 brief , we be now in a unique position compare with the rest of Europe , and yesterday be a triumph . I also applaud he for say such positive word about President Trump and our relationship with America , even if nobody behind he agree . but here be the key : President Zelensky have now accept that he will sign the mineral agreement with America . America be go to put in £ 100 billion or whatever it be , and thousand of Americans will be in Ukraine . be that , in itself , enough of a security guarantee , or do it mean that we need to send british troop ? if we do , and give the size of our Army , how many ? the mineral deal be not enough on its own . may I just remind the hon . Gentleman that Russia be the aggressor and Zelensky be a war leader whose country have be invade ? we should all be support he and not fawn over Putin . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , and I congratulate he on the excellent leadership that he have show on the international stage . do he agree that in order to achieve any last peace in Ukraine , Russia must return the 19 , 546 child it have steal from Ukraine ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , because it be absolutely crucial . it be a moral outrage that those child have be take , and of course we must ensure their safe return . that have to be part of any discussion , but she be quite right to raise it . we should do so more often . the Leader of the opposition have quite rightly and properly show her support for the Prime Minister ' s position , and I hope he will take comfort from the fact that he have the support of at least these back Benches as well . those of we who have have dealing with the Russians — in my case that be through the Council of Europe — know only too well that Putin ' s Administration can not be trust , and that security guarantee be therefore absolutely vital if we be to succeed in get a peace agreement , not a surrender . a surrender would lead to inevitable further activity in Georgia and Moldova , and then possibly in the baltic state as well . be that not right ? I agree with the right hon . member completely . we know Putin ' s ambition , and we know that he be not a man to keep his word . we absolutely have to guard against those risk , which be why security guarantee have to go in , in relation to any deal that must be do . we must be vigilant on all front in relation to Putin because , as we know from our history , instability in Europe inevitably wash up on our shore . this be about our national security just as much as it be about the sovereignty of Ukraine . may I praise in the strong possible term the Prime Minister ' s strong and pitch - perfect leadership , particularly in relation to the increase in the defence budget , and his statesmanship through this difficult time ? he have speak for the nation , and indeed have be the leader of the free world these past few day . while this negotiation be ongoing and Ukraine be still be bombard , will he ensure that our partnership with Ukraine go deeply , and that it still get the drone , plane and arm it need to make sure it can stay at the table while he be make his deal ? the hon . Member make a very good point , which be peace through strength . it be vitally important that Ukraine be put in the strong possible position to fight on if necessary — there may not be a deal — or to be in the strong position to negotiate if there be negotiation . on both front , we must not let up ; on the contrary , we should double down and provide more support . may I , too , on behalf of my party , congratulate the Prime Minister on the work he have do this week , both in America and here in the United Kingdom . he have make a commitment to provide support to Ukraine to defend any peace agreement , but give the state of our armed force and how overstretched they be , how sure be he that he can deliver on that commitment ? do he not agree that there need to be a continued role for America in the defence of democracy against terrorising tyrant ? I thank the right hon . member for his question and for his support . I do have confidence that we have the necessary capability . I do not take these consideration lightly . he be absolutely right that we should do this in conjunction with the US , work in the way we have for many decade now , which have ensure peace here and in Europe . we shall continue to work in that way . I thank the Prime Minister for his careful and considerate leadership this weekend . do he agree that Putin will feast on western division ; that the only people smile on Saturday be those in Moscow , Tehran and Tbilisi ; and that , at this delicate moment , it be vital that member in every corner of this House continue to show the united front that the country expect and the House have show over the past three year ? I agree with my hon . friend : Putin do feast on division . when I be Leader of the Opposition , among the reason I support the then Government be the fact that Putin would have be the only winner if there be division in this House . that be why I commend the Leader of the Opposition and the conservative party for continue that unity , because it demonstrate to Putin that we be a united House on this issue . may I just point out that Vice - President J . d . Vance seem to be in favour of free speech , but not free nation ? do we not also have to point out , as other be say , that there be no history of Vladimir Putin prove a trustworthy treaty maker ? there can be no security and there be no path to a peace in Ukraine that be secure without the engagement of the Americans , the failure of their support risk a wide war in Europe that would inevitably draw they in . can we quietly and diplomatically keep make those point to the White House , so that we have a chance of peace in our continent ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right : history show that Putin be untrustworthy . that be why the Ukrainians be so concerned that there should be a security guarantee in relation to any deal : they have be here before , they have see the credibility of his word and they know he be untrustworthy . that be why they be so concerned , and we share their concern and be work with they . he be quite right that we need the US to be work alongside we and with we , in the way we have do for decade , to ensure the security and defence of Europe . I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that that arrangement , which have prove so successful — the alliance that be NATO , the most successful and important alliance we have ever have — continue and go from strength to strength . the Prime Minister have our gratitude for steer a very difficult path over recent day and I welcome his statement . defence be a vehicle for social mobility , career security and opportunity for our young people , as it have be for I . defence have deep historical link with Londoners — the Gunners , the Hammers and Leyton Orient — but many londoner be not actively engage by defence at present . do the Prime Minister agree that we must engage every part of our country not only with the serious challenge we face , but with the opportunity too ? I do think this need to be a whole - nation approach , include young people . this morning we have in a number of small business in the defence sector , with apprentice and young people who explain to I why they want to work in the defence sector : not only the secure , well - pay and skilled job they would get , but the pride they would feel in work for the defence and security of their country . follow on from the previous question , the opportunity be not just for defence but for the NHS . in January , in the week of Trump ' s inauguration , I go cross - party to visit Ukraine so that we could offer our support . while there I have the privilege of meet veteran , many of whom have lose limb and receive world - lead prosthetic . the fact be that the Ukrainians be now world - lead in these matter . the 100 - year partnership exist . what be we do in the UK to supercharge not just defence but rehabilitation , which help we and not just they ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that point . I go to Kyiv just the other week . there be many move aspect , but one be some of our NHS worker in a burn unit in a hospital in Kyiv . I meet some who have return from the frontline with the most appalling burn — very difficult to see , watch and look at — and civilian who be catch up in blast . I , for one , be very proud that we have NHS worker there , with the health worker of Ukraine , work together to do the very good they could for those in that burn unit . that be a small example of what she speak of . I very much welcome the grow push from numerous country for a peace deal between Russia and Ukraine . that must be a just peace . too many life have already be lose follow Putin ' s illegal and brutal invasion . but I be alarm by the issue of deploy british troop on the ground in Ukraine and british military plane in the sky over Ukraine , because there be no get away from the fact that that would risk our country come into a direct military conflict with a nuclear - armed Russia . the consequence for million of people in our country and across Europe of such a war and nuclear conflict really do not bear think about . give the enormity of such a decision , will the Prime Minister commit to ensure a vote in the House of Commons before any such deployment , in keep with the important principle of our parliamentary democracy ? the risk to our country be if we do not fight for the peace . my position on the sustained deployment of our troop be that this House would of course want to discuss that and vote on that , but we be nowhere near that stage at the moment . the Prime Minister ' s very capable Defence ministerial team will have tell he that even be he able to accelerate investment and expenditure on defence more rapidly than have already be outline , there would be a considerable time lag , give the complexity of modern equipment , before industrial output could be ramp up . he talk about intensify planning . will he include the creation of a defence industrial expansion unit in the machinery that be be set up now ? that way , as resource become available , the output of military equipment can be at the fast possible rate . I thank the right hon . member for his question . we already have a unit work on rapid deployment and procurement in relation to Ukraine , which , along with other aspect , need to be ramp up . the Prime Minister show unwavering commitment to Ukraine this weekend , and I stand with he on that . will he reiterate this Government ' s support for Ukraine ' s sovereignty and our commitment to work with our ally in both the US and Europe so that we be in the good position possible to work towards a last peace ? I agree with the sentiment of my hon . friend ' s question . we will work with our ally and with the US towards the security and defence of Europe . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and for the hard yard he be put in at the moment for our national security . may I suggest another angle on which the House would appreciate an update ? last year , during an inquiry into russian sanction , the Treasury Committee receive evidence that russian hydrocarbon be still end up in the UK . could he explore the idea of improve our national security by ensure that the oil and gas that we consume in this country come predominantly from this country ? the hon . Lady be right : our energy independence be hugely important , and the last three year have show that we be far too exposed . we will obviously look closely at the question of the hydrocarbon and the sanction . the beautiful weather over the weekend bring with it the promise of spring , and I hope the Prime Minister get at least two minute outside to enjoy it . however , I be afraid the same weather in Ukraine will be greet with dread by soldier on the frontline , who know that the improve weather will bring an intensification of war . will he commit to the strategic defence review take into account his commitment in order to ensure an excellent security guarantee , so that Ukraine can once again greet the spring with hope ? my hon . friend be right about the impact of the weather on the conflict in Ukraine . I be always strike by the resilience of the Ukrainians , both on the frontline and within their civilian population . after three long year of conflict , their resilience be humble . on behalf of the Green party , I welcome the Prime Minister ' s strong support for Ukraine , his work for peace and his commitment that there should be no decision about Ukraine without Ukraine . however , give the scene that we see in the Oval Office on Friday , which people across the country will have be aghast at , give the bullying tactic of President Trump , and give the fact that Trump clearly view this as a business opportunity , how will the Prime Minister ensure that the interest of Ukraine remain front and centre in the peace deal ? by pick up the phone to President Trump and President Zelensky and make sure that we can focus on what matter most , which be last peace in Ukraine . the Prime Minister rightly reaffirm our commitment to our national security . while it be regrettable that foreign aid and the soft power that go with it will , for a time , see a reduction , do he agree that without the necessary hard power to back what we say on the world stage , the impact of our international aid would be diminish in any case ? will he also outline how increase investment in defence strengthen both our armed force and our ability to support Ukraine effectively ? I agree with the point my hon . friend make , in particular on our ability to support Ukraine in a number of different way . it be important that we take these step . I also strongly support the Prime Minister ' s consider approach to deal with a powerful US President with whom he might not always agree , but with whom we can and must work very closely . do he agree that one of the good way to persuade the US that any security backstop be temporary be not only for we to ramp up defence spending , but for european NATO country to agree to a new 3 % target within a specify time period — a new target that show the President that the backstop would not be forever ? have the Prime Minister have any discussion with Secretary - General Rutte along those line ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his support . I really do appreciate it . yes , we do need to ramp up european defence spending , and that discussion be happen at the moment . as the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate , I have be in near - constant discussion with Mark Rutte at NATO on this issue and many other over the last few day . I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership over the last week . thank to his action , Europe be more united , our tie with the United States have strengthen and , critically , Ukraine be well support . our nation walk tall , thank to what he have do in the last week . do he agree that in ramp up our defence spending , we have to look at defence procurement , so that if our brave man and woman find themselves in Ukraine , they have the equipment and support they need to do their job ? we do have to ramp up and improve our procurement , because we have to ensure that as we increase defence spending , we get absolute value for money and the good capability for the money we be spend . that mean be much , much clear and tight on our procurement . three year ago , the sale of Chelsea football club realise £ 2 . 5 billion , which be to be use for the benefit of Ukraine . today , that money remain frozen , and as Lyra Nightingale of Redress say this morning , there be a total lack of transparency about who have it and when it be go to be release . can the Prime Minister tell the House when that money will be release for its intended purpose — to help the people of Ukraine ? the whole issue of asset and frozen asset be complicated , but I agree with the sentiment across the House : it be time to look at what option might be available . I do not think we should do that on our own ; I think it need to be do in conjunction with other country . it be fiendishly complicated , which be why it have not be do so far . not for a long time have a british Prime Minister be so important on the world stage , and the Prime Minister rightly deserve the support of the whole House . to protect our security , we have to make use of our incredible technology , but government procurement often do not work for rapidly grow start - up . will the defence industrial review look at how we can improve procurement , so that we can make our technological advantage count ? yes , it will . early today , we announce a new unit and target for small and medium - sized enterprise , and I be very pleased to be able to welcome some of they to Downing Street . I have the honour and privilege of represent a very large number of servicemen and servicewoman and their family , and they will be look at this very anxiously indeed . although they always stand ready to do their duty , do the Prime Minister agree that it would be utter folly if the United Kingdom , France , Norway or Canada send their son and daughter into harm ' s way without all necessary security guarantee from the United States ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman , and it be why I be work so hard on security guarantee that be worthy of the name — that is , one that have a forward - lean european element , but a US backstop and US backing ; that be vital if it be to act as a guarantee . of course , that be uppermost in my mind . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and the leadership he be show at this moment of uncertainty . the quality of the contribution from member on both side of the House today show this Parliament and this country rise to meet the moment . that be why it be so disappointing , but perhaps not surprising , that the Westminster leader of the SNP , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , choose to make such juvenile and childish statement this weekend . do the Prime Minister agree that the SNP leader ' s juvenile comment on social medium , and his party ' s fundamentally unserious approach to our nuclear deterrent , show that the SNP can not be trust on the serious matter of the nation ' s defence ? different people will respond in different way . some will take to the keyboard as warrior ; I pick up the phone to world leader to try to resolve the situation . work together with our european partner be essential for security , stability and peace . Plaid Cymru commend diplomatic initiative over the weekend . boost defence spending should not come at the expense of international aid or public service that be starve of resource . the Prime Minister talk of Tory fiscal failure , but protect peace now call for a bold vision . under what circumstance would he commit to look again at the fiscal rule to ensure that the UK can responsibly invest in defence , humanitarian commitment and public service ? I do understand the right hon . Lady ' s concern . as I explain to the House last week , the decision on defence be not one I want to take , but the defence and security of Europe require we to take it . on the fiscal rule , economic stability be vital . if we lose that , we will lose far more out of all our budget . I will work across the House , in whatever way we can , to increase development aid , notwithstanding the budgetary constraint . I speak to the president of the World Bank on Friday to have that very discussion . those discussion be to be have with other country and institution , and innovation and discussion across the House would be a valuable part of that exercise . the principle behind her question be the right one : we must support international development and aid . my constituency have welcome hundred of ukrainian refugee into the community . I pass on their thank to the Prime Minister for the strong leadership that he have show over the past few week . the majority of these Ukrainians want to go back to their country when it be safe to do so , but a small minority of young ukrainian refugee have approach I to say that they have lay down root , build career and start relationship here , but have no route to settle status . what consideration have the Prime Minister give to the life of these young Ukrainians who want to make London their permanent home ? my hon . friend be my MP neighbour , and I remember that together , we see some of the first ukrainian refugee arrive in her constituency in the very early day . obviously , we need to take this step by step , deal with the conflict that it be . many will want to return ; some may not , but we be not , unfortunately , at the happy place where those who want to return can return . that have to be the first priority . like my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) and many other , I congratulate the Prime Minister on his decision make over the past few day , and on keep his cool when other be lose theirs . most importantly , he follow the simple principle that when the UK and the USA be together , the world be a safe place . those who cry for they to be split be mad ; it be as simple as that . when the Prime Minister talk to the american President , could he possibly nudge he on why Ukraine be important on a wide scale ? as part of Russia ' s deal with North Korea , the Russians have be hand very advanced subsea ballistic missile technology to the North Koreans . that will bring the whole of the United States within the target area for missile . remind the President of that might be important . finally , the coalition of the willing , no matter how big or powerful it be , can not succeed if Russia demand the complete demilitarisation of the ukrainian force . they must be allow to stand with their arm in case this break down again . the north korean element be a significant development that expand the threat and risk . we all need to see it in those term . the sovereignty and security of Ukraine must be at the heart of this . part of sovereignty be decide for yourself what your defence capability be . we must not lose sight of that , because a security guarantee be not just what the Europeans or the US do . it be also Ukraine ' s ability to defend herself as a sovereign country . she should be able to do that . the Prime Minister be right to say in his statement that economic security be national security . the same be true of energy security , as we see in the clean power plan . may I encourage my right hon . and learn Friend to use our success in develop alternative energy technology to support Ukraine , give it energy and national security as we ensure the same here ? energy security in Ukraine be hugely important . it be be attack every day , and that be why it be so vital that we help Ukraine defend its energy arrangement and work for a last peace , which will allow it to prosper and thrive as we all want . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase defence spending , but I be trouble by it be do entirely on the back of the overseas development aid budget . I hope that the Prime Minister will keep an open mind on alternative . it be reassuring to see the uplift in air missile explicitly link to british job in Northern Ireland . what assurance can the Prime Minister give that defence spending on new equipment — be it weapon , kit or tech like drone and it — will be focus on UK manufacturing and innovation , so boost british growth ? I be really pleased that the announcement that we make over the weekend be for job in Belfast ; that be hugely important . that be the model that we should follow . as we ramp up defence spending and capability , we should be look at it predominantly support UK job and the UK economy . the secure , skilled job that go with that should be in our economy , because economic security be important in the UK , just as defence and security be important . I join those thank the Prime Minister for set out how clearly the safety of the world and the future of Ukraine rely on this moment . I for one am sadden that the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be no long in his place , because he might have learn a thing or two . his previous advice to Prime Ministers be that when President Macron be elect , he would loathe we and be anti - british — how out of depth and out of touch with the british national interest that advice be . give the coalition that the Prime Minister be build , and the concern of all of we about use resource effectively , will he please tell we a little more about what conversation he have have with our european ally on how we can reduce the duplication of effort involve in the plan go forward ? I do think it be important that we work with our european ally , whether on ramp up spending or on capability , but the point my hon . Friend make about co - ordination be also important . we have to learn the lesson of the last three year . many european ally and other have provide capability to Ukraine , but it have not be co - ordinate enough . our collective security and defence , to my mind , require that we co - ordinate our effort much more closely as well . do the Prime Minister share my concern and sadness that any settlement appear to involve acceptance of the russian occupation of part of the sovereign territory of Ukraine ? will he recognise that the baltic nation will now feel even more exposed ? while I welcome his telephone conversation with their leader at the weekend , can he give an assurance that they will be at the table for any future discussion of european security ? on the question of territory , obviously there be discussion to come , but I take the tenor of what the right hon . Member say . on the baltic state , he be right . just before Christmas , I be at the joint expeditionary force meeting in Estonia to have discussion with they . I have be twice to the frontline in Estonia , where we have british troop . they feel immediately the threat , for very obvious reason . I speak to the baltic state yesterday morning at some length , and assure they that we need to look again at the configuration when we have meeting of european and other ally to ensure that those state be properly represent , because , for they , the threat be very clear and very near . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and the outstanding global leadership that he be show on this issue . I , too , return from Ukraine last week after five day , and the one consistent message the ukrainian people I meet give I — from resident to soldier , and from business to politician — be their immense gratitude for the leadership and support that the UK have show since day one of this illegal war . do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time for we to remain resolute as a House for the sake of the ukrainian people , and that the 100 - year partnership between our two country be now more important than ever ? the 100 - year partnership signal the depth of our relationship . I , too , have hear the thank for our leadership , and I think it be right that I pay tribute to the Conservatives for the leadership that they show from the very beginning of this conflict , which I be able to follow as Leader of the Opposition . I add my voice to those congratulate the Prime Minister on the way he have conduct the last week and on the policy , which I think enjoy if not unanimous then largely unanimous support in this House . I gently point out to the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) that our enemy watch this Chamber , and that speak with one voice be very important . I also congratulate the Leader of the Opposition . do the Prime Minister agree that , as well as willing the end , we need to will the mean ? at what point do he think he will bring forward a business plan for how we fund what be likely to be £ 60 billion or possibly £ 70 billion over the next five to 10 year , so that our military threat be credible , serious and something we can actually afford ? as soon as we have any detail around plan , I will bring they to the House so that they can be fully discuss , because this need to be not just a short - term response but a much long - term assessment of how we ensure that Europe be keep safe and secure . I thank the Prime Minister for his continue leadership on the world stage . these past few day , I have feel particularly proud to be british , so I thank he for that . the Government be rightly already use frozen russian asset to fund Ukraine ' s defence and reconstruction , but what further action be be consider to ensure that Russia pay the full financial cost of its illegal invasion ? Russia be already pay the cost through the interest . we need to look at whether we can go far on that , but it be complicated and we have to act with other . I will see what progress we can make , and let the House know if there be progress . I , too , have the honour of be in Ukraine for the third anniversary and , as other hon . member have say , whether it be from community , military personnel or ukrainian politician , the gratitude express to our nation for stand strong with the Ukrainians be clear to see . before go to Ukraine , I hold a roundtable in my constituency , and the Ukrainians who be here be clearly thankful for be give safety , but they also need the visa scheme to be amend so that their child can finish their education and they can secure meaningful employment without have time - limit visa . will the Government review that issue to ensure that we stand with the Ukrainians here in the UK as well as those in their home country ? we will take the hon . Gentleman ' s point into consideration . obviously , the immediate situation confront we be the question of how we settle the peace , but he be right to raise those other concern . can I add my voice to those around the country who have say how proud they be of our british Prime Minister , and how proud they be to be british ? he have lead from the front , and I hope very much that in the week and month to come , he will hold that in mind and strengthen his resolve as we move forward . he have already make reference to one of the priority that Stefan Harhaj , the chair of Bury ' s ukrainian association , raise with I , which be the release of the 20 , 000 child who have be kidnap and forcibly remove to Russia . will my right hon . and learn Friend commit to secure their release and update the House on a frequent basis on our achievement to this end ? yes , of course . that be a really important issue , and it should not be overlook as we discuss the very many issue here . it be a moral outrage , and I think I speak for the whole House in say that . I , too , congratulate the Prime Minister on his composure and leadership , but , as his hon . friend the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) say , we have to ensure that we have the resource in place to tackle this . the whole of western Europe be in the same difficult financial and demographic position . will he look again at find the mean to deliver on our promise ? his leadership and rhetoric have be fantastic , but go forward we will need the hard power to back they up . the right hon . member be right . that be why the conversation over the weekend have be about the specific issue of a security guarantee in Ukraine , but also , importantly , the wide issue of how Europe step up more generally in its own defence spending , capability and co - ordination . that be an important part of the discussion . we should not just focus on the question of the security guarantee ; they be part of the argument , but they be not the whole argument . I thank the Prime Minister in these incredibly difficult time for the strong leadership he be show . do he agree that one of the many thing that have become clear in recent month be that the security of Britain rest on a secure Europe , that a secure Europe rely on peace in Ukraine , and that peace in Ukraine require a unified stance against russian aggression ? do he agree that as free people in the UK , Europe , America and our other ally , we must stand firm and stand together and show that democracy will be defend and tyranny will not be tolerate ? I agree with all that , and I think the House agree with it , too . I note with great appreciation the order for Thales in Belfast . with Europe collectively be a long way short of self - sufficiency in defence , and with Putin more than likely to seek to exploit that deficiency , do the security guarantee require from the US effectively equate to those that would arise under article 5 of NATO ? be that the order of what we be talk about ? NATO membership be a form of guarantee ; article 5 be a form of guarantee . there be different way in which the guarantee can be put in place , but what be important be that it be effective and that those in Europe who be lead on this do it in conjunction with the US , so that Putin know the severe risk that he take if he breach any deal that may be arrive at . I also commend the Prime Minister for the way he receive President Zelensky after the disgraceful bullyboy tactic from President Trump and Vice - President Vance , and for his continued support for Ukraine . as the Ukraine Solidarity Campaign highlight , increase military spending overall be not necessarily the same as increase military aid to Ukraine . will the Prime Minister set out how much of that increase military spending will specifically be use to re - equip Ukraine ? be he not concerned that cut the international aid budget risk increase global instability and undermine support for Ukraine , both here at home and internationally ? we be step up our support for Ukraine , both in military aid and in other way . in relation to the decision that I have to take last week , the security , safety and defence of Europe have to come first , but I be absolutely committed to do what we can to increase the aid and development that we be able to provide , which be why I will look at the priority and work with other on other way to leverage the support that we might be able to put in place . I also congratulate the Prime Minister on the leadership he have show this weekend — it be in the good tradition of british Prime Ministers deal with the United States and deal with Europe . notably , when we be in the EU , we be able to do that . may I press the Prime Minister on the upcoming Hague summit for NATO leader in June ? when the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) and I be at the North Atlantic Council in the February recess , it be make clear that they would be bring forward the plan that would be need to defend Europe . will he use his leadership so that if we suddenly have to spend more money , he be in a position where he will keep an open mind so that he can persuade all the other leader that they also have to do that ? one of the principle I have hold in mind over recent day be to ensure that what we do be co - ordinated with NATO , as it must be . we be deploy in different country already , as the right hon . Gentleman know . that be why I be in such close contact with the Secretary - General , Mark Rutte , on a near - constant basis . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for his stamina in all the meeting over the weekend and , not least , in come to the House for an extra hour and a half — and count — this afternoon to keep we informed . like other member from across the House , I take part in the trip to Ukraine for the third anniversary last week . do he agree that while the cross - party consensus on Ukraine , include from the SNP , be welcome , the SNP Scottish Government must take action to ensure that business in Scotland benefit from the increase in defence spending and continue to contribute to the security of the United Kingdom and of our ally in Ukraine ? I agree with that principle . the increase in defence spending be a duty but also an opportunity across the United Kingdom for good , well - pay and skilled job in many business . it be welcome to hear the Prime Minister acknowledge Canada ' s contribution to Ukraine ' s self - defence and its status as a vital ally for the UK . last week , he be ask by the press in the US about President Trump ' s repeat call for Canada to become a US state . the Prime Minister answer that he and Trump do not address the issue of Canada , but be not that meet a good opportunity to remind President Trump about sovereignty and independence , include that of Canada ? yes ; it be a serious point . in the time we have available , I be most anxious to discuss the question of security guarantee , and that be why I devote the vast amount of time I have to it . on the question of Canada , we should be absolutely clear that Canada be a vital ally to the United Kingdom and to the Commonwealth , and have play a lead part in relation to Ukraine — not least in the vital training that it have provide . we should be very proud of what the Canadians have do . I put on the record my thank to the Prime Minister . I know that the entire House thank he for the leadership that he show over the weekend . in his statement , he talk about step up the economic pressure on Russia . as thing stand , we know that Russia be circumvent the oil price cap . its oil be be sell above $ 60 , and around $ 190 billion flow to Putin from oil sale last year . we in this country be in a unique position to enforce the cap because the insurance that the tanker depend on be write in London . will the Prime Minister assure we that he will strengthen the oil price cap as much as possible , and may I request a meeting with a Minister to discuss in more detail how we might strengthen it ? my hon . friend be right : we do need to take further measure . that be why we have take specific sanction against the shadow fleet and oil producer — to tackle that very issue . credit where credit be due : I commend the Prime Minister for the leadership that he have show over the past week . many member across the House will understand the range of emotion that be feel before a deployment on global operation . will the Prime Minister send a message to the brave man and woman across our armed force who be mentally prepare to deploy to Ukraine ? the message would be , " thank you for everything you do . we support you in everything we do . " I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership on what be the define moral issue of our time . there be no end of support for the ukrainian people in Hertford and Stortford , but this have be an incredibly difficult time for ukrainian family who have find safety in our community . will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to directly reassure the ukrainian community in my constituency of his commitment to work with international ally to end Russia ' s illegal invasion and bring a just and last peace to Ukraine ? yes , I will . I know that the ukrainian community here in the United Kingdom have be extremely anxious , particularly in the last few day . have speak to some of they myself , particularly those who have come from area that be occupy by Russia , I know that they be extremely concerned about the ongoing situation . I very much agree with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the steadfast support for Ukraine across the United Kingdom , and if my inbox over the weekend be anything to go by , my Hazel Grove constituent agree too . I also agree with the comment of the Foreign Secretary last week about the need to move from freeze to seize russian asset — the principal , not just the interest . the Prime Minister remark that this be a complicated issue , and anybody sensible would agree . what effort be he take with ministerial colleague and other to simplify it , so that we can strengthen the hand of our brave ukrainian ally ? we be do what we can . it be not just something within the UK , frankly ; it come up yesterday in the discussion . if there be any possibility of go far , and I do not know whether there be , it be go to have to be do with other country at the same time . I do not want to get ahead of myself because it may simply be too complicated and too risky , but certainly there be an appetite now to look more closely at the possibility of look at these asset . at the weekend , a ukrainian constituent say to I : " as the bomb fall on my city last night , one thing remain unchanged : no one here want a peace build on surrender or at the cost of dignity . so to those who stand with we — not just in word , but in truth — thank you . " do the Prime Minister agree that strong diplomacy , such as his , that encourage friend to defend our value , Ukraine and the international rule - base system be in the permanent interest of the UK , Europe , the United States and the wide world , and that it honour our ukrainian friend , who have sacrifice so much ? I agree with everything that my hon . Friend say . those be the principle and value that must be uppermost in our mind as we take our decision . I commend the Prime Minister and indeed the Defence Secretary and Foreign Secretary for their ongoing support for Ukraine . I also commend the leadership that the Prime Minister have show over the last few day . he mention not make a false choice between our ally the United States and Europe , and I completely agree . do he agree that there be a historic opportunity for his government , hopefully support by the Opposition , and for this country to be a diplomatic , political and defence bridge between the United States and Europe ? yes , I do think that there be that opportunity , which be why we will not make that choice between one side of the Atlantic or the other . that would go against our history , and that of the country and my party — actually , cross - party . the good way to secure the defence and security of Europe be to ensure that we be work both with our european ally and with the US in our special relationship . I declare an interest : as a member of the International Development Committee , I hear the news of the cut to overseas development assistance to fund a rise in defence spending with a heavy heart . however , I wholeheartedly agree with the Prime Minister ' s decision . do he agree that international development and security be two side of the same coin , and that we can not have economic development in Europe and the wide world without a safe and secure Ukraine ? I do agree , which be why I remain committed to international development , and want to get back to a position where we can increase it . it be also why I want to work across the House to see what else we can do in the immediate and near term to pull other lever in relation to development . I thank the Prime Minister for be consistent in his message to his ally that any future negotiate peace must include Europe and Ukraine , must be sustainable , and must protect the territory and sovereignty of Ukraine . however , achieve that last peace will require engagement with civic society engage in peacebuilding , atrocity prevention and long - term conflict prevention initiative , all of which be currently fund by our foreign aid budget . how do the Prime Minister hope to achieve those objective when he have just follow the trump playbook and announce a plan to cut overseas aid spending by 40 % ? I do not accept that characterisation . it be very important that we provide the fund we need for our defence spend , but what we have get from SNP Members be what we have at the Budget : yes , they want the big provision of money and finance for the Scottish Government that have ever happen under devolution , but no , they do not want to say how they would pay for that ; yes , they want an increase in defence funding , but no , they do not want to say how they would pay for it . that be unserious . in recent month , the Conservatives , who apparently lack the stamina that the Prime Minister display over the weekend , have confidently and repeatedly pronounce to the Prime Minister what the President of the United States will and will not do , all of which have turn out to be bluff and bluster . do the Prime Minister agree that the UK Government have the good intelligence to support the UK national interest , and that the UK national interest would be well serve with a bit less bluff and bluster , and a bit more optimism about what this great country can do to lead the way to make our world and our people more secure ? I agree with that . I be proud of the fact that , as a country , over many decade and throughout our history , we have always step up when it have be necessary to step up . it be now time to do so again . we will do so and I be really pleased that , by and large , we have full support from across the House at a time when we need to step up . over the past few day , the Prime Minister have really rise to the challenge and it be right that most member of the House have this afternoon commend he for be a statesman . in his statement , he say that the " last peace must guarantee the sovereignty and security of Ukraine . " be that the pre - 2014 Ukraine , the pre - 2022 Ukraine or the Ukraine currently under russian occupation ? it be important that our european ally and America , as well as Ukraine , send the right message to China , who will be look at this very carefully . if China think it can brutally invade Taiwan and secure a piece of territory there under some future security deal , that will not be good for anyone in the west . will the Prime Minister bear that in mind ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good point in relation to those around the world who will be look in and observe the way in which we deal with Russia and with the risk from Russia , but that only underline that any discussion about Ukraine must be do with Ukraine at the table , not by other . it be clear that russian aggression be make our continent less safe . what we have see in the past week be this House largely , this Government particularly , and this Prime Minister absolutely rise to that challenge . what step will the Prime Minister take to ensure that our european ally also rise to that challenge and commit to spending 2 . 5 % of their gdp on defence ? we be work together to do what we can to ensure that all our colleague rise to this particular challenge that be do with capability , spending and co - ordination . those be among the thing we have be discuss quite intensively over this weekend . the difference between " decent " and " deceit " may only be one letter , but the gap define a man ' s character . give what we see on Friday , whatever the context of that meeting , when the Prime Minister next speak to President Trump will he remind he of that and make sure that decency be at the centre of any negotiation ? nobody want to see what we see on Friday — I do not think there be any dissent from that — but it be important that we pragmatically work forward to what matter most , which be last peace in Europe . that be what condition the approach that I have take to this throughout the past few day . I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership and particularly for the difficult but decisive decision to have that immediate increase in defence spending . he say early from the Dispatch Box that the tough choice be not do , and he be absolutely right . with a view to the future , be he able to say a little more about this idea of a rearmament bank ? while I appreciate that it be at only a conceptual stage , could we do that together with our european ally and our friend in the Commonwealth as well ? I think we should look at all option , and I think this be one of the option that should be take very seriously . that be what we be do . it be important . I commend the Prime Minister ' s effort to galvanise Europe and make it clear that Ukraine ' s security be Europe ' s security . give President Trump ' s reluctance to support Ukraine , be it not time that the Government bring forward emergency legislation to seize russian asset , which can directly support the defence of Ukraine and its people ? I think the hon . Gentleman have hear my answer on that . we be look at what can be do , but it be complicated , and it have get to be do — if it be to be do — with other . I speak to dozen of people on the doorstep over the weekend who welcome the significant step that the Prime Minister have take to protect Europe ' s border and genuinely value his leadership on this extremely important matter , so I thank he on behalf of my constituent . he will be aware that over the past week , Russia have launch more than 1 , 000 attack drone , nearly 1 , 300 aerial bomb and more than 20 missile at Ukraine . Population centre continue to be target , with the aim of kill ukrainian civilian . do he agree that strengthen ukrainian air defence be pivotal and do he welcome Lithuania ' s announcement last week that it will soon hand over RBS 70 short - range air defence system to Ukraine ? my hon . friend make a good point . we should not lose sight of the fact that while we be discuss security guarantee and the like , Russia have be unrelenting in its attack on civilian , ramp it up while we talk of how to resolve this issue . of course , we should do everything we can to assist Ukraine with their air defence . the Prime Minister will know that one of the challenge be american voice suggest that their focus should be on China , not Europe . I think a victory for Russia would also be a victory for China , but at a time when we be ask America to focus on our strategic interest , we should be willing to demonstrate our commitment to theirs . in that regard , can he reconfirm his commitment to AUKUS and update the House on progress ? let I recommit to AUKUS and our strong support for it . the point that the hon . Gentleman make be absolutely right ; China be watch very carefully what be happen in Russia , and we should always bear that in mind . it be clear through his action over the last few day — and , indeed , from the question ask across the House today — that the Prime Minister have restore Britain ' s place on the world stage . as a patriot , I thank he for that . it be also clear just how hard he be work to ensure that there be sustainable and last peace in Ukraine . I still find myself speak to individual — I believe they be a minority — who question why we be still send money to Ukraine and why it be not be spend on Britain . please can the Prime Minister say what he would tell they about why it be in Britain ' s direct national interest to ensure that Ukraine win this peace from a position of strength ? my hon . friend make a very good point . it be in our national interest because insecurity and conflict in Europe always wash up on our shore — it have already do that . the cost of living crisis be far bad because of the conflict in Ukraine . oil price and energy price have go through the roof in the last few year because of the conflict in Ukraine . work people in Britain be already pay the price , and there will be an even big price if we do not have a sustained and last peace in Ukraine . this be about Ukraine ' s sovereignty — of course it be — but it be also about the safety and security of Europe and the safety and security of our country . that be why it be in our national interest for we to take the step that we be take . may I join other in commend the Prime Minister for his diplomatic leadership over the last few day ? can he set out what step he be take to discourage third nation from provide hardware that the russian military can use to prosecute its illegal war ? the hon . Member make a very good point . we be do everything we can and bear down on those third party that be provide support to Russia , in whatever form , and we will continue to do so . I commend the Prime Minister for his effort to make sure that Europe continue to support the defence of Ukraine . the United States , however , have change the conversation on Ukraine by appear to put Russia first . the United States ' Defence Secretary now claim that Russia be not a significant cyber - security threat to the US any more ; Elon Musk be publicly call for the US to leave NATO ; and the US vice - president be an effective mouthpiece for Vladimir Putin in the Oval Office . consider all that , do the Prime Minister think that we and our european and Commonwealth ally can keep President Trump on board until a fair settlement for all the people of Ukraine be achieve ? I have have extensive discussion with President Trump , and I believe he to be completely sincere in his desire for last peace in Ukraine . he be sincere about that and he be right about that , and that be why we will work with he to do everything we can to bring about that last peace . I , too , commend the Prime Minister for his international leadership in promote a long - last and durable peace in Ukraine . I be pleased that he have reconfirm the Government ' s commitment to ensure that sanction on Russia be not lift in the event of a ceasefire , but we all know that there be a vehement determination on the part of Putin to protect his regime and russian interest . in the light of that , do the Prime Minister agree that it be critical that the Government take every action they can with international partner to ensure that Russia can not circumvent international sanction via its shadow fleet ? the hon . member be absolutely right about that , which be why we need to bear down on the shadow fleet . we be do that through sanction , and we be work with other country to ensure that they do the same , because it be a vital part of the work that we need to do . we all want to see an end to this ghastly conflict in Ukraine and an end to the loss of so much innocent civilian life , as well as an end to the death of soldier of all side . can I take the Prime Minister back to the answer he give to the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) early ? under what circumstance do he envisage british troop be deploy in Ukraine , under what circumstance do he envisage they take part in fight activity against a belligerent , and will he guarantee that any such decision will come to the House before it be take ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . there be one person who do not want last peace in Ukraine , and that be Putin . we have to hold that centrally in mind , and we need security guarantee in place , because Putin ' s ambition show that if there be a deal , he will not keep to it unless those security guarantee be in place . those guarantee be the guarantee , not of conflict , but of peace — which be , I think , what everybody in this House want , include the right hon . member . of course it be right that this House should have detail and discussion of any security guarantee and the right to express its view , and I will ensure that that happen . early , the Prime Minister say that Russia be a menace in our water and in our sky . that be obviously correct , so can he tell we which individual Minister have overall responsibility for the security of our offshore infrastructure , such as wind farm in the North sea ? give the vital importance of military tech and hardware , will he join I in condemn the idiotic divestment campaign that seek to undermine our domestic defence manufacturing industry ? the security of our infrastructure — wherever it be , but include underwater — be the responsibility of the whole government , but most of all , it be my responsibility as Prime Minister to ensure the safety and security of our country . the threat to our country come in many form , and I take that responsibility extremely seriously . US security guarantee for any peace agreement in Ukraine be of course highly desirable , but give that the US Defence Secretary appear to explicitly rule they out , we must of course consider other scenario , and those guarantee should not be a show - stopper . with that in mind , european NATO gdp alone be 10 time the size of Russia ' s , yet Russia spend $ 40 billion more annually on the war in Ukraine than Ukraine and her western ally do . do the Prime Minister agree that if we be to close and exceed that gap today — perhaps by seize the $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset — Ukraine would have a credible path to victory and a just peace ? on the question of security guarantee , it be important that the US and the UK team be work together on this , and I take comfort from that and concentrate on that . I do not think that be highly desirable ; I think that be essential . we should be put everything into ensure that that be the way that we move forward . on the question of the asset , the hon . Gentleman have hear my answer . I understand why he ask it , but it be a complicated question . I , too , thank the Prime Minister for his support to President Zelensky yesterday , follow the circus that be his meeting with President Trump and Vice - President Vance in the Oval Office . follow the Prime Minister ' s discussion with President Trump last Thursday , can the Prime Minister provide assurance regard the ongoing presence in this country of the US Air Forces in Europe at current level and give reassurance that the US ' s half - a - billion - pound Defence Infrastructure Organisation investment in the european infrastructure consolidation project ' s new joint intelligence analysis complex at RAF Molesworth — also the home of the NATO Intelligence Fusion Centre — will not be put in jeopardy , give the change in european posture of the new US Administration ? I be absolutely clear that President Trump and I want to strengthen the relationship between our country . we have speak openly about it . we be very close on defence and security . we both know that , and we both want to strengthen that alliance . that be a good thing for both the United States and the United Kingdom . I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership over the weekend . in the statement , he talk about UK job , UK skill and UK finance pull together for our national interest , so may I also welcome the announcement of the £ 1 . 6 billion investment in Thales in Belfast in regard to the procurement of those 5 , 000 air defence missile that will defend Ukraine , but also our democracy ? while that investment in our private sector be welcome , may I just ask the Prime Minister to remember to invest also in our armed force personnel ? we require they and we will need they and want to support they as we ask they to step forward into a challenging time . while there may be those make comment around the quantity , can the Prime Minister remind other listen and watch that it be the quality of our armed force that count ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the quality of our armed force , and we be all very proud of what they do in the vital defence of our country . I be pleased that we have be able to progress with the deal in Belfast so that those well - pay job will be there in Belfast , as well as the job in the supply chain that will then feed in to that contract . I add my own congratulation to the Prime Minister on this weekend ' s successful summit . it be refreshing to see a british Prime Minister not only stand alongside our ally , but work constructively with they and put we at the heart of Europe , where we belong . can the Prime Minister tell I how he intend to maintain the positive momentum from this weekend and ensure that Britain ' s voice be hear loud and clear , particularly in the European Union , as it continue its own internal discussion on how to support Ukraine and counter the threat from Russia ? we will continue our discussion with our european ally . they have meeting this week , and far follow - on meeting be plan come out of yesterday . as the hon . Gentleman will understand , between those meeting , we be in constant touch with each other about how we take forward the plan we be work on . " scottish soldier could be in Ukraine by end of the year " , be the headline in the Herald newspaper this morning , base on quote from First Minister John Swinney in answer to question from the BBC . notwithstanding that the british armed force have many fine and gallant young scot serve with they , can the Prime Minister confirm that the decision on — indeed , the burden of — deploy british troop anywhere sit with he and with this House , and not with a divisive First Minister and the head of a devolved Administration . yes , and a good thing too , because the First Minister confirm his view that we should weaken our defence by get rid of the nuclear deterrent . what a good thing it be that the security , safety and defence of the whole United Kingdom rest with this Government here . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for his leadership . he will have hear the support of the Liberal Democrats , and of many other on both side of the House , for his leadership in Europe and his correct identification of Russia as the threat in this scenario . have refer early to the russian cyber - threat to the NHS , among other thing , do he share my concern about the fact that , overnight , United States Defence Secretary Hegseth have announce the step back of US counter - cyber measure against Russia ? do he believe that that be a good choice by the Americans ? I will not provide a running commentary on american decision , but there have already be cyber - attack on our NHS , and we must be vigilant about such attack . the russian threat be multifacete . everything , pretty much , be be weaponise , and that be why it be important that we always link back what be happen in Ukraine with what be happen in our country . I thank the Prime Minister for everything he have do over the last few day — it have be admirable . will he endeavour to ensure that we prioritise military spending on outcome rather than , strictly , the amount of money that be spend ? the rush to avoid criticism of underspend often mean that cost - effectiveness can be lose . should not the defence and international aid budget be view as a rolling average over several year rather than annually , to avoid the accounting gymnastic that might otherwise happen every March ? it be important to ensure , as we spend more on defence , that we get value for the money that we be invest , and the good capability . the hon . Lady be right : it be , in a sense , the outcome that matter here , which be why the strategic review be go through the challenge that we face and the capability to ensure that they match up . she be right about the need to ensure that there be value for money and we be get the good we can in term of the capability that we need . I warmly congratulate the Prime Minister on his action and his leadership in recent day , and , indeed , on his stamina here this afternoon . apart from Putin ' s puppet who scarper from the Chamber more than an hour ago , the House know full well that support for Ukraine be essential to maintain the rule - base world order ; the question with which we be all wrestle politically be how we pay for it . the Prime Minister say in his statement that there be a " crossroad in our history " and that this be a " new era " . surely , in these circumstance , it be a moment when the Prime Minister and the Chancellor may need to look again at the straitjacket of their fiscal rule , and start tax the wealthy in the country rather than build this essential investment in defence on the back of the poor . I think it important that we be able to fully fund the increase in defence spending , and that we be able to explain where the money be come from straight away . we need certainty and security in our economy . we should not lose sight of the fact that if we lose security in our economy , all our budget will be affect and we will all be a lot poor for it , which be why we have take the approach that we have . fiscal rule be important and we will stick to they , but we will look , with other , at innovative way of ensure that we can raise the necessary money as we go forward . for the final question , I call Jim Shannon . I definitely have the strong leg in the Chamber , Madam Deputy Speaker ! I have be bob up and down for about three hour . I thank the Prime Minister very much for his statement and his leadership . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as everyone in the House will know , I be very proud to be british , and this week we in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be very proud of our Prime Minister for his stance . I welcome it , and I wish to convey that to he from my constituent and everyone I have speak to . we in the Democratic Unionist party welcome the £ 1 . 6 billion contract to supply thousand of advanced air defence missile to Ukraine , announce by the Prime Minister yesterday and feature on the front page of the Northern Ireland paper today . the deal will secure 200 new job for Thales , and my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) wish to thank the Prime Minister for that as well . accord to my right hon . friend , most of the people who work at Thales live in my constituency , and I be very pleased about that , because it mean extra work for my constituent and a few extra job . I welcome equally the clear indication that we be stand firm in support of Ukraine as it battle against Russia . will the Prime Minister please confirm that this support will seek to broker peace , but not until we do right by the people of Ukraine , and that that remain our foundational principle ? on the principle , the hon . Gentleman be right , and I be so pleased about the job in Northern Ireland . as for the bobbing , when I come here 10 year ago , I see the joint gym session that we go through in these statement , particularly long one . it be something to behold , but I suppose it keep we all a bit fitter and a bit healthy , which have to be a good thing . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement this afternoon . finance Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Committee and as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : correspondence between the Joint Committee on Human Rights , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , on the removal of the vat exemption for independent school fee , report to the House on 22 January and 29 January . ] New Clause 1 - Review of impact of section 1 on recipient of the full rate of the new state pension " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the expect impact of section 1 of this Act on recipient of the full rate of the new state pension . ( 2 ) the review must include analysis set out , for the tax year 2025 - 26 — ( a ) the total number of people in receipt of the full rate of the new state pension pay tax under section 1 of this Act , and ( b ) the tax liability of state pension income under section 1 of this Act of those in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) . ( 3 ) for comparative purpose , the review must take account of equivalent project figure for subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( 2 ) ( b ) for the tax year 2026 - 27 , 2027 - 28 , 2028 - 29 and 2029 - 30 . " — ( James Wild . ) this new clause would require a review of how many people receive the new state pension at the full rate be liable to pay income tax this year and in the next four tax year , and specifically what the tax liability of their state pension income will be . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy : impact assessment of increase in rate — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act come into force , commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of section 15 to 17 of this Act on — ( a ) domestic energy production and investment ; ( b ) the UK ' s energy security ; ( c ) energy price , and ; ( d ) the UK economy . ( 2 ) the assessment must examine the impact of provision in this Act in comparison with what could have be expect have the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy remain unchanged . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of change to the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy on domestic energy production , the UK ' s energy security , energy price and the UK economy . new clause 3 — Review of impact of tax change in this Act on household — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change in this Act on household finance . ( 2 ) the assessment in subsection ( 1 ) must consider how household at a range of different income level be affect by these change . " this new clause require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the change in this Act on the finance of household at a range of different income level New clause 4 — Review of impact of Act on small and medium sized enterprise — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report set out the impact of the measure contain within this Act on small and medium sized enterprise . ( 2 ) the report must include an assessment of the impact of the Act on the follow matter — ( a ) the number of people employ across the UK by small and medium enterprise ; ( b ) the number of small and medium sized enterprise cease to trade ; and ( c ) the number of new small and medium sized enterprise establish . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to conduct an impact assessment of the Act on small and medium enterprise . new clause 5 — Review of the Impact of Tax Changes on Household Finances — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the tax change introduce by this Act on household finance . ( 2 ) the assessment must evaluate how household across different income level be affect by these change . " this new clause require the Chancellor to assess and publish a report on how the tax change in this Act impact household at various income level . new clause 6 — report on fiscal effect : relief for investment expenditure — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report set out the impact of the measure contain in clause 16 of this Act on tax revenue . " this new clause would require the Government to produce a report set out the fiscal impact of the Bill ' s change to the Energy Profits Levy investment expenditure relief . new clause 7 — pupil with SEND without an Education Health and Care Plan : review of vat provision — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act and every six month thereafter , lie before Parliament a review of the impact of the measure contain in section 47 to 49 of this Act on pupil with special educational need and disability . ( 2 ) the review must consider in particular the impact of those measure on — ( a ) child with special need who do not have an education health and care plan ( EHCP ) ; and ( b ) the number of child whose family have apply for an EHCP . " this new clause would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the vat provision in the Act on pupil who have special educational need but do not have an Education Health and Care Plan . new clause 8 — Review of section 63 and 64 — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act and every six month thereafter , review the impact of the measure contain in section 63 and 64 of this Act . ( 2 ) each review must consider the impact of the measure on — ( a ) Scotch whisky distillery , ( b ) small spirit distillery , ( c ) wine producer and wholesaler , ( d ) the hospitality industry , and ( e ) those operate in the night - time economy . ( 3 ) each review must include an estimate of administrative and operational cost for the precede 12 - month period for each of the sector list in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) each review must consider the impact of the measure on the retail price for consumer of product subject to alcohol duty . ( 5 ) each review must also examine the expect effect of the measure on the domestic wine trade . ( 6 ) a report set out the finding of each review must be publish and lay before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the measure on the Act on distillery , wine producer and the hospitality industry . government amendment 1 to 17 . Amendment 67 , page 53 , line 30 , leave out clause 47 . this amendment remove Clause 47 , which remove the vat exemption for private school fee . amendment 68 , page 56 , line 13 , leave out clause 48 . this amendment remove Clause 48 , which introduce anti - forestalling provision . amendment 69 , page 56 , line 13 , leave out clause 49 . this amendment remove Clause 49 , which set out the commencement date . government amendment 18 to 66 . I will speak to new clause 1 to 3 , and amendment 67 to 69 , table in my name . it be 124 day since the Chancellor deliver the first Labour Budget in 14 year — the so - call growth Budget — but it feel like long . inflation be up , taxis be up , borrowing be up , unemployment be up and energy bill be up . I could go on , but most tellingly of all , growth be down . the Bank of England have just cut its growth forecast for this year in half , to just 0 . 75 % . little wonder that business confidence have plummet , with firm warn of few job , low wage and high price . instead of back risk taker and support wealth creator , as the Conservatives do , this Finance Bill and the Budget attack enterprise and deliver low growth , high borrowing and high taxis . I turn to new clause 1 , concern pensioner . million of pensioner be leave out in the cold this winter when the Government take away their winter fuel payment . million of people in receipt of only the state pension now face pay income tax on it . when the Government decide to take away the winter fuel payment , they say that people could apply for pension credit to try to get some support . the problem be that there be huge delay in get pension credit . when the message be first put out , the delay be 84 day . five hundred new staff have be bring in , but it be still 56 day , which be above the 50 - day limit . do my hon . friend share my concern that people have now pass through winter and still do not have the fund to which they be entitle under this government , and which be not there ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , who have do stellar work in draw out of the Department the datum on delay and waiting time . if everyone who be entitle to pension credit take it up , it would wipe out the saving that the Chancellor want , so the idea that she want all those people to take up pension credit be for the bird . new clause 1 would require the Government to review how many people receive the new state pension at the full rate will be liable to pay income tax in the come year . at the general election , we be very clear that people in receipt of only the state pension should not pay income tax on it . however , recent forecast suggest that an estimate 9 million pensioner will pay income tax on their state pension from April 2026 . pensioner can not easily alter their financial situation , yet they be give just six month ' notice that they would lose their winter fuel allowance . they can not be blindside for a second time by the taxman . in Committee , the Minister say that the relevant datum be available , but I do not think that be correct , because the figure to which he refer do not break down the group we be talk about — recipient of the full rate of the new state pension . will he commit to publish datum on how many people receive the new state pension will pay income tax on it ? this potential hit could not come at a bad time for pensioner , who have lose their winter fuel payment , because we learn last week that energy bill be go up yet again — a far cry from the £ 300 cut that they be all promise at the last election by the Labour party . at the Budget , the Chancellor make much of her announcement that she would uprate the personal tax threshold in line with inflation from 2028 , but that be not legislate for in this Bill . the public be be ask to take the Government at face value , yet recent report suggest that this promise may be drop due to the impact of the Budget on growth and high borrowing . give the number of broken promise since the election , can the Minister reconfirm from the Dispatch Box the Government ' s commitment to unfreeze those threshold in 2028 ? as well as pensioner , work people can not afford the cost of this Labour Government . the Prime Minister promise at the election that he would not hit work people with high taxis , and he then break that promise with the £ 25 billion - a - year job tax . can the hon . Member confirm which Government leave taxis at a 70 - year high ? can he also confirm which Government lead to interest rate and inflation be at record high , which have sting so many mortgage holder ? well , the last Government have to deal with a global pandemic and an energy price shock . I be happy to enlighten the hon . Gentleman , who have obviously not read the Red Book : taxis be go up — they be go up to record high level — under the Budget and the Finance Bill that he be support . if he be worried about the tax burden , he should not be vote for this Finance Bill today . household be face financial challenge , and the measure in the Bill will only make thing bad . the Office for Budget Responsibility predict that real household disposable income will fall by 1 . 25 % by the start of 2029 , largely due to the measure in the Budget . new clause 3 would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact of the change on household finance . the choice that this Chancellor and this Government have make mean that borrowing be increase , so interest rate will be high for long and people ' s mortgage will be high , and hard - work family will be pay billion of pound to pay off the debt interest . the Government inherit inflation at target , but since then inflation have go up , mean less money in people ' s pocket . while it be the Chancellor ' s wide mishandling of the economy that be attract the headline , the measure in this Bill will have a direct role in squeeze household . whether it be high stamp duty , increase alcohol duty , air passenger duty , capital gain increase , vehicle excise duty , change to the tax treatment of hybrid vehicle or many other measure , the cost of the Bill will be feel directly by household across the UK . when household be stretch , it be essential that we have transparency about what the Government ' s action be do to income . of course , the big tax - raise measure in the Budget , as my hon . Friend say , be the national insurance contribution rise , with its £ 25 billion impact on the economy , yet once we have take off compensation for public service and the negative impact on activity , it net only about £ 10 billion . it be a peculiarly ridiculous policy that net only £ 10 billion or £ 11 billion , yet , accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s number , will take £ 19 billion out of people ' s pay packet . do my hon . friend agree that there have surely never be a more ridiculous measure that cost so much and deliver so little ? my right hon . friend make the point that this measure may have be introduce by a Chancellor who do not actually understand the impact it be go to have . the Government should have stick to the promise they make at the election not to increase national insurance at all . new clause 2 concern the Government ' s plan to undermine our energy security by increase the energy profit levy to 38 % , bring the headline rate on oil and gas activity to 78 % , extend the tax by a year and remove investment allowance . the consequence be fairly predictable . offshore Energies UK have say that the hike will choke off billion of pound of investment in the North sea , put 35 , 000 job at risk . do the hon . Member not agree that if such a rate be good enough for Norway , a clean energy superpower , it be good enough for the United Kingdom ? in short , no , I do not , which be why we vote against that previously . we should be maximise our home - grow energy , not undermine domestic production and choose to rely instead on importer with high carbon emission . I agree entirely with the shadow Minister . only today , the Prime Minister say at the Dispatch Box that our economy be security , and security start with our defence and look after ourselves — and that include energy security . be it not ridiculous not to use North sea oil — our own reserve — to ensure that security ? it be the clean side of oil and gas . use our own reserve also come with job , and prevent we import oil and gas in a volatile world . absolutely . I wonder if , when the Prime Minister be in Washington last week , he have the opportunity to talk to President Trump about home - grow energy and the importance of support the domestic sector . that be what we on the conservative Benches certainly support . this be a sector with 200 , 000 high - skilled job , so it be important that we have an up - to - date assessment of the impact of what the Government be do on our domestic energy production , energy security , energy price and the UK economy . unfortunately , we already see some of that impact : the US firm Apache have say that it will end its operation in the North sea by the end of 2029 , blame the extension of the profit levy for make it uneconomic to stay beyond then . this measure be vie with the national insurance contribution change to be the most absurd measure . I think that it win by a head . the Prime Minister say that we must have energy security , and the Climate Change Committee that say we will still need oil and gas for 25 % of our energy need if we meet net zero in 2050 , but the Government will have no more licence . we will lose ten of thousand of job , ten of billion of pound in tax , and the engineering capability that we need for the transition . it be absurd on every single possible front . my hon . friend be 100 % correct . I think we all know that the architect of much of this be the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , who take a rather fundamentalist approach . he want to cover farmland with solar farm , and want to undermine our oil and gas sector . we on the Opposition Benches disagree . it be the previous Government who introduce the levy , but that be to tackle extraordinary profit at an extraordinary time . the revenue help to keep energy bill low for all our constituent , but now the Government be ratchet up the levy and seem to want to tax North sea exploration out of existence . this be just a further example of the Government ' s ill - conceive energy policy . GB Energy be a net zero vanity project that will not generate any energy or be an energy supplier . it certainly will not deliver £ 300 off bill . amendment 67 to 69 , table in my name , would remove clause 47 and abolish labour ' s education tax . since 1 January , independent school fee for education and vocational training have be subject to vat at 20 % . it be the first time education have be subject to vat . why be that ? because education be a public good , so we do not tax it . put vat on independent school particularly hurt those on the most modest income who have choose to save and make sacrifice to send their child to a school that they think will serve they well . in Northern Ireland , we have a number of faith school that will be impact greatly by the measure . they have contact I even at this late stage to ask whether the Government would reconsider . do the shadow Minister agree that faith school will be impact , perhaps more than other , and that the impact on parent , and child in particular , will be gross ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . everyone will have an opportunity , if the amendment be move and select for a Division , to vote to strip the measure out of the Bill . none of those parent on modest income be get a tax break . they be also contribute to funding place in the state sector , whether or not their child take they up . ultimately , this be a tax on aspiration , and we oppose it . in Committee , we raise concern about the impact on certain group , include child with special educational need , small school , faith school and military family . my hon . friend be be very generous in give way . he touch on the issue of child with special educational need . this be not just about scrimp parent make a choice ; this be about people with no choice , whose child have be bully or who have special need that have not be meet in the state sector , and who have make a sacrifice to put their child in the private sector . People with child in particular need will pay the price of this ill - thought - through measure . my right hon . friend be consistently absolutely right . there be more than 100 , 000 pupil in independent school with special educational need and disability who do not have an education , health and care plan . they will have to pay vat on their school place — that be not cover by the Government . be it not true , though , that special educational need student be exempt from this proposal ? it be not a surprise that while the opposition be focus on the very small number who go to independent school , we be focus on ensure a good education for the large majority of our child in state school . I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman be flat wrong . child with SEND who go to an independent school but do not have an education , health and care plan will have to pay the 20 % vat — I would hope that people who be vote on this legislation might have understand that fairly fundamental point . that will make those place unaffordable for the parent of many , add pressure to the state system , with demand for place where there be no capacity , and squeeze council budget . this be just another part of the Education Secretary ' s ideological approach , which seek to divide . we on the conservative Benches care about all child . we simply believe that parent should be able to choose the school that be good for their child . we be see the impact in real time . the Government ' s own estimate suggest that 100 school would close over the next three year ; a school in the Prime Minister ' s constituency have say it will close this summer due to the impact of vat as well as the job tax . school closure , dedicated staff lose their job , child have their education disrupt — that be the effect of this policy . I therefore hope that member will support our amendment . we on the conservative Benches welcome inward investment ; we back wealth creator and risk taker . as this government be chase growth , one would think they might be send a message that Britain be open for business . however , the plan for non - dom , include inheritance tax , have already cause a significant exodus of investor from the UK . last year , more than 10 , 000 net millionaire leave the country — a 157 % increase on the year before . accord to the Adam Smith Institute , that be equivalent to lose the income tax take of more than half a million average taxpayer . we discuss this in Committee . at Davos , the Chancellor say that she would amend these proposal as they make the UK less attractive , but frankly , the damage have already be do . the Chartered Institute of Taxation have warn that , give the lack of proper consideration and consultation , the amend proposal still leave uncertainty , which will be counterproductive if it be the Government ' s intention to encourage those people to stay and to allay the concern of those look to invest in the UK . the shadow Minister be absolutely correct . at Davos , the Chancellor say she have listen to that community . why would she make change for that community , but not the farming community , the pensioner community , the pupil at private school or the SEND community , or indeed work business such as pub , restaurant and charity , who be all see tax increase ? why be that community listen to , when no other be ? do he have any idea why that could be the case ? my hon . friend invite I to get inside the head of the Chancellor , but I be not sure I would be able to do that . all I know be that the other group that he mention should also be listen to . the Chancellor have show herself to be particularly tin - eare on the impact of these change on family farm and business , hence there be , tomorrow , yet another protest . I read over the weekend that another brave Labour MP have come out and say he oppose the change and want to see reform — perhaps some of the other Labour mp be here to speak to say that they too stand with the farmer in their constituency . to conclude , the Prime Minister and Chancellor set growth as the mission for this Government . they inherit an economy grow at the fast rate in the G7 , but the choice they have take in the Budget and in this Finance Bill have stop growth stone dead . they have hike taxis , undermine business confidence , push up inflation and hit work people and pensioner . later this month , we will get the economic and fiscal forecast , but what we can already see be a Labour Government commit to high taxis , high spending and high borrowing , and we be all pay the price . economic growth be the ability to produce more with less . it be the foundation of all human progress . it be why we be not all scratch around in the dirt , desperately hope something will grow . however , there be no economic law that say that when the economy grow , all must share in it . in decade past , it have not be share . growth have go to high earner over everyone else , to the old rather than the young , to capital over labour and to London over everywhere else . this be tear our democracy apart , and it be tear other democracy apart . that be why I be so proud to speak in favour of this Finance Bill , which will help to ensure that economic growth be share among all people and all place . I work as an economist before enter this place . as Members may know , my phd be on the cause and consequence of inequality and particularly why , since the 1980 , people and place have not share equally in growth . in my adult life , I have never know a grow economy , and now my beard be turn grey — [ interruption . ] I will soon look like gandalf . I want to see the dotted line on the GDP chart finally go up , but that be not enough . we have to ask whether all be share in that growth . growth for where , and growth for whom ? the only way to ensure that all share in growth be for this Government to act . when people do not share in growth , when their income do not rise and when life become bad , hope turn to cynicism , happiness turn to anger and peace turn to riot . there be four way in which growth have not be share by all , and we be fix all four in this Budget . first , across high - income nation , top earner have see their pay rise far fast than the rest . technological change destroy manufacture job and lead to a divided labour market of high - pay and low - pay job . high - pay worker benefit from new technology — computer , Excel and PowerPoint — and they see their wage increase 50 % fast than the average . we be fix that in this Budget by invest in the skill of non - graduates , with more money for further education college and apprenticeship . secondly , old generation have benefit from cheap home , while young renter can not buy a home because we have fail to build enough house in this country . twenty year ago , house price be three time the average wage . today , they be more than eight time the average wage . do the hon . Gentleman agree that one thing that could be do very quickly be that the Government could legislate so that all Airbnb property need planning permission ? that would release a lot of short - term let back into the market as long - term let for young people . I be sure the Government will consider these measure in the round , but more broadly , of course , it be about build many more home . some 40 % of 18 to 34 - year - old be live with mum and dad , and we be start to fix that in this Budget , include by provide a 20 % increase in the affordable home programme , which be a stepping stone to build 1 . 5 million new home . I be grateful to my Leicestershire colleague for give way . he will know that housing target and housing number have go up in Leicestershire — the figure in my patch be up by 59 % and 73 % respectively . however , the figure for Leicester city be drop by 31 % . why be that happen when Leicester have brownfield site and the good connection ? if we need house everywhere , should we not see they be build in city as well , rather than just in the countryside ? the housing formula have rightly be change to where the need be great . in my constituency , for example , planning permission have not be approve to replace derelict factory on brownfield site with new home . I have see too few home be build and too many thing be reject . I be proud of this Government ' s aim to build new home , and I have full faith in the formula . we need more home everywhere , include in both of our constituency . my hon . friend be make an excellent point and an excellent speech . he be right to highlight the importance of housing , in term of both quality of life and labour mobility , as well as the many other benefit to the economy . I commend the good example of Reading , where many brownfield site be be redevelop . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) may wish to visit Berkshire to see how well we be rebuild our town centre , as be many other city and town around the country . I could not agree more . perhaps we should all take a trip to see the great work be do in Reading , because we have to build a lot more home . my generation be increasingly find that work hard and get a good job be no guarantee of own a home in the end . that be what this Government be fix with this Budget . it be not only the young who be not share in growth . growth have go to capital over labour , and technological change mean that machine can do task far more cheaply than human . More payment to capital mean less for worker . the labour share of GDP have fall by a sixth since deindustrialisation . today , across the Atlantic , we see the danger of Bidenomics — Order . I remind the hon . member that it be imperative he speak to the Finance Bill and the amendment , rather than rehash a Budget speech . this Budget be invest in the future , and indeed change this country . this be a Budget that be move forward , but I want to cover the bit cover in the Finance Bill . it be a Budget , a Finance Bill , that be invest in labour - intensive sector such as early year childcare and the warm home plan . I be enjoy the hon . member ' s speech , and to give he a few moment to gather his thought , I remind he that new clause 1 would require a review of how many people receive the new state pension at the full rate be liable to pay income tax this year and in the next four tax year , and specifically what the tax liability of state pension income will be . would he care to provide the House with his thought on new clause 1 ? I thank the hon . member for his help and assistance . the aim be not only to improve pensioner income . on one side there be the tax change , and on the other side , the triple lock will ensure that the amount go to those pensioner increase by £ 400 from April . as member on both side of the House would agree , the triple lock have help pensioner immeasurably . it be right that I now draw my speech to a close . I thank all hon . member for their help , and I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak to new clause 4 to 8 , and I will make a few additional comment at the end . new clause 4 , table in my name , would review the Bill ' s impact on small and medium - sized enterprise by require an impact assessment . in this House , we have rehearse many time the impact of the Government ' s Budget on small and medium - sized enterprise , include through the rise in national insurance contribution , the change to business rate and , of course , the plan to change inheritance tax and business property relief . we be very concerned about the impact of the Budget as a whole on small and medium - sized enterprise , on our high street and , of course , on family business . it be inconceivable that these change be go ahead without an impact assessment , so we urge the Government to consider this amendment . new clause 5 would require the Chancellor to assess and publish a report on how tax change in this Bill affect household at various income level . of course , we all know that the cost of borrowing be at a 30 - year high . after the misery of the mini - Budget , mortgage holder in particular will be deeply concerned . just as we be concerned about certain measure that be in the Finance Bill , we be also concerned about certain measure that be not in the Bill . as we outline in our reason amendment on Second Reading , the Bill do not include measure to reverse the winter fuel payment cut . more recently , we Liberal Democrats have also call for a social energy tariff , which I hope the Government will consider in due course . new clause 6 would require the Government to produce a report set out the fiscal impact of the Bill ' s change to the energy profit levy investment expenditure relief . as we have say in this House many time , the Liberal Democrats be the first to call for a windfall tax on the big oil and gas company . it be introduce in the last Parliament , but seven month after we first call for it . it also include a very large loophole . have it be introduce soon and without the loophole , it would have raise significantly more money . that money could have be use for an emergency home insulation scheme to reduce people ' s energy usage , which would have be well for the environment and for people ' s pocket . the new clause would enable the Government to publish how much money they would raise through that measure . if it be to be pass , we would encourage they to look at how much money could have be raise have it be introduce when we first call for it . new clause 7 would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the Bill ' s vat provision on pupil who have special educational need but do not have an education , health and care plan . the Government have introduce an exception for child who do have an ehcp , but as member will know , there be child who have diagnose special educational need — or in some case be await that diagnosis — but do not have an education , health and care plan . in my constituency , we have a double whammy : the Conservative - lead county administration have receive the bad possible ofsted rating for its SEND service and , at the same time , we have be severely disadvantage by the very outdated funding formula , which put Hertfordshire at a huge disadvantage . it would take we 15 year to catch up with neighbouring Buckinghamshire for money per pupil , even though Buckinghamshire join we in the 40 worst fund council in the country . clearly , we want that funding formula to be fix . we also want local service provision to be improve . fundamentally , many family be struggle with the SEND service . like many member , I have receive a number of email from constituent about this issue . they have recognise that in St Albans we be very lucky to be bless with a number of high - perform , sometimes outstanding , state school . some family may have one or two child in a state school but choose to put one child in a private school because of their particular need . one example stand out to I : a family contact I to say that they have other child in state school , but one be not get on well so they choose to put they into a private school . only at that point do the private school contact the SEND department at the state school to find out whether any support have be put in place . it turn out that their child have complete a range of assessment , and have perform quite poorly — well below the acceptable level for processing and comprehension — but even so , no additional support have be put in place apart from award extra time , because it be simply not possible . be that not precisely the point ? our state system do not have the capacity or the mean to support child with special educational need . the additional £ 1 billion investment , which in part will be raise by get rid of the vat exemption , will help deliver not only 6 , 500 new teacher but the additional support for special educational need child in our state system . we disagree on this point . fundamentally , Liberal Democrats have say that we should rise the tide for all child , not low the tide for some . we have a very ambitious education agenda in last year ' s general election manifesto . some area we have in common with the Labour party , and some not . our very ambitious agenda for education include a ringfenced high need budget . I have campaign relentlessly on improve SEND provision for the past five or six year in this Chamber , in Westminster Hall debate and in various meeting . we do not think that this particular measure be need to improve SEND funding . other measure could be use . we have a difference of opinion about how to raise that money . the hon . Lady ' s response to that intervention be perfectly good in its own way , but her new clause simply ask to measure the impact and look at whether the damage be too great to justify it in that broad sense . I hope that the Government consider look at it , take it seriously and follow the hon . Lady ' s argument . I be grateful to the right hon . member for highlight that the new clause be about an impact assessment . labour colleague will be aware that the vat provision will come into effect very quickly , but it will not provide the instant support that many child need . if child ' s education be disrupt , they immediately suffer disadvantage in their life . if the Government have really want to pursue this measure , I would have hope at the very least that it would have happen in a few year ' time to allow for adjustment . but we be where we be . we do not support the measure , but at the very least we request an impact assessment , as the right hon . Member suggest . new clause 8 on alcohol duty would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the Bill ' s measure on distillery , wine producer and the hospitality industry . since 2022 , I have table numerous question in the House and write letter to the Treasury with evidence of fall tax receipt and sale as a result of the measure that the Labour Government be now introduce . they will introduce huge amount of red tape , which will be very complicated , very costly and , ultimately , will push up price for consumer and the industry . may I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? let I voice my support for my hon . friend ' s new clause , which would require the Government to review the impact of alcohol duty increase on key sector . Scotch whisky be one of Britain ' s great industry , account for 22 % of the whole of Britain ' s food and drink export and support ten of thousand of job . yet despite repeat assurance from the Government , the industry continue to face sharply rise duty cost . since the duty on Scotch and other spirit be — order . the hon . member ' s intervention be slightly too long . he be on the list to speak in due course , so perhaps he will make his point about the importance of Scotch whisky then . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the plight of Scotch whisky . my husband be an Ayrshire boy who be certainly do his bit to keep the Scotch whisky industry go . notwithstanding that , it would help if the Government do not pursue these particular duty . near my constituency — it be in it before the boundary change — be an importer of fine wine . one of its product be port — not the kind of drink that many people sit and glug as they might do with a cheap form of alcohol . [ hon . member : " speak for yourself ! " ] for most family around the United Kingdom , port be a drink to buy for an occasion — a birthday , Christmas , a wedding or something of that kind . it be not typically the kind of drink that someone would glug — with the exception of a few people in the House — in such volume as other alcoholic drink . none the less , that business will be impact by these measure . they will affect a huge amount of innovation in the industry , which be a prize to our economy . I ask the hon . Lady to cast her mind back to Scotch whisky . I meet representative of the irish whiskey industry just before Christmas . they tell I of their deep concern over job and employment and the future of their distillery . in my constituency , the Hinch , Rademon and Echlinville distillery all have those concern . the hon . Lady be right to pursue this matter on their behalf . I be grateful to the hon . member for add his support . I hope that he will join we in the Lobby later . finally , I will touch briefly on the Government amendment . the Chartered Institute of Taxation have provide a comprehensive briefing to all mp on the 57 amendment to part 2 of the Bill . it be fair to say that the Government ' s proposal on non - dom have be a little hodgepodge . the chartered institute be now strongly advocate for proper consultation . it warn that " uncertainty " that have be introduce through these measure and that the drafting of some amendment may inadvertently achieve the opposite of what the Government seek . on that note , I encourage Ministers to meet the Chartered Institute of Taxation and hee its warning to ensure that measure be properly draft and that no uncertainty be introduce through they . the Liberal Democrats have table a number of new clause , and we hope that colleague will join we as we press they to the vote . it be a pleasure to contribute once again to a debate on this important piece of legislation . a number of amendment have be table by hon . member from across the House and , while I do not have time to cover they all , I will address the key one . as I say in Committee of the whole House , this be a crucial bill that underpin the new Government ' s aim of fix a tax system that have become less fair and less sustainable over the last 14 year of conservative government . I be conscious of the need to confine my remark to the amendment rather than speak to the Bill itself , but I remind everyone that the Bill be necessary because of the dire economic inheritance that the Government find on enter office last year . the hon . Gentleman say that the tax system have become less fair over those 14 year . do he oppose the increase in the tax burden pay by the high pay ? that be what happen over those 14 year . do he not see it as fair that those on low and average earning see their share of the tax take go down ? be he oppose to that ? in what way precisely , from his deep understanding of the tax system , have he conclude that it have become less fair over the last 14 year ? when the last government leave office , taxis be at their high level for 70 year . threshold have be freeze , bring more worker into high tax rate than be fair on they . the Labour Government be dedicate to try to ensure that taxis be pay by those with the broad shoulder and those well able to pay they . rise — if I might make a little progress before the right hon . gentleman intervene once more , that would be lovely . opposition Front - Benchers have table new clause 1 to 8 , which would require the Government to undertake a number of review of the impact of measure in the Bill , range from a requirement for the Chancellor to commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of change to energy , oil and gas profit levy on domestic energy production , the UK ' s energy security , energy price and the UK economy to a requirement on the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact of the change in the Bill on the finance of household at a range of income level . I gently remind Opposition Members that much of the information request be already available . detail on tax liability be publish by HMRC , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Office for Budget Responsibility , and the impact of the change set out in the autumn Budget be publish in document include the tax information and impact note and the " Impact on household " report . while we as politician can read and scrutinise those real impact , when pensioner who will have to pay tax on their state pension come to the hon . Gentleman ' s surgery — they will have to do a tax self - assessment or pay it back — how will he explain to they exactly what be go on ? they will not have the technical ability — many will , but some will not — to understand why they be be tax . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he seem remarkably well inform already about the impact of the change in the Budget , and I imagine that hon . member across the House will be similarly well informed . the Leader of the Opposition have outline her desire for a british equivalent of Elon Musk ' s Department of Government Efficiency . I wonder how she can square that desire with the new clause , which , if pass , would seem to duplicate work already do by the Government . that be hardly a model of efficiency — more like play politic . in the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 8 on alcohol pricing , the hon . Member will see that we be ask not just for an impact assessment of the taxation raise , but for an assessment and estimation of the administrative and operational cost for the precede 12 month already incur by this fantastic part of our industry . do he agree that an impact assessment of the red tape be important as well as the tax take for the Treasury ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . it seem to I that by write to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and table parliamentary question request that information , it would be more than possible for she to gain the datum she require and therefore , no doubt , make her case across the House . new clause 2 refer to the Government ' s change to the oil and gas profit levy . those crucial change , which will see an increase in the rate of the levy to 38 % from 35 % and will raise in total £ 6 billion to underpin investment in deliver on our mission — get the NHS back on its foot and support growth across the country — be laudable . I would not want to support any amendment that would put those benefit at risk . new clause 4 , table by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , would require the Chancellor to conduct an impact assessment of the Bill on small and medium - sized enterprise . I be sympathetic to her desire to support small business , but I be unpersuade that her new clause be the good way to do it . all the measure in the Budget have tax information and impact note for they publish with the Budget , and I remind everyone listen that it be a good Budget for small business . as the Federation of Small Businesses say on the day , " against a challenge backdrop , today ' s Budget show a clear direction " — order . we be debate the Finance Bill and the amendment to it , not the Budget . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I simply intend to illustrate why the change propose in the amendment do not help what the Government be attempt to achieve via the Finance Bill . the FSB say that the Budget " show a clear direction in business policy now for the whole of this Parliament to target support at small business , rather than big corporate " . as hon . member have state , the Government be support sme by more than double the employment allowance , keep the small profit rate stable , maintain the annual investment allowance and freeze the small business rate multiplier . I ask hon . member not to forget that this be an important piece of legislation underpin measure announce at the Budget that will help fix the NHS , improve public service , incentivise capital investment and rebuild Britain . this Finance Bill implement the 2024 autumn Budget . that be a bad budget and this be a bad bill . it punish business , discourage entrepreneurship and raise taxis on those try to make a living . it will lead to job loss , reduced investment and high price . it will lead to high interest rate and high Government debt , which will lead to low growth . if we want to make a list of thing that our economy do not need , this Finance Bill would be a good starting point . the Bill be build on broken promise . the amendment table try to help the Government to keep their manifesto promise . during the election , Labour tell the public that its plan be fully cost and fully fund . its manifesto say that it would increase spending by £ 11 billion , so how can the Government now justify an increase in spending of £ 70 billion a year fund by an extra £ 40 billion in taxis and £ 30 billion in borrowing ? even if people believe the fairy story of the black hole tell by Labour Members — I do not — £ 11 billion plus £ 22 billion do not equal £ 70 billion . be not the truth that the Labour party always plan a large increase in taxis and borrowing but do not have the courage to tell the british people in advance ? the Chancellor and the Prime Minister insist that work people would be protect , but it be now clear either that they be wrong or that they do not consider small business owner , publican or farmer to be work people . do the hon . Member not recognise that one of the primary challenge face by the sector he mention be that of worker ' inability to afford to live in the area where they work , such as in Cornwall , and that the change to stamp duty land tax will go a long way towards improve the ability of worker to be house in what be currently , in so many case in Cornwall , second home ? do he not recognise the potential contribution of that to the workforce ? I be sure that there be one or two good part to this Finance Bill , but the hon . Gentleman be elect on a manifesto pledge to increase spending by £ 11 billion , and that be fully cost , yet this Finance Bill increase spending by £ 70 billion . I just wonder why he and his hon . friend do not have the courage to put that before the british people at the election . small and medium - sized enterprise and the hard - work entrepreneur who run they be the backbone of our economy , and they be the victim of this Finance Bill . in constituency such as Bridgwater , where sme be key to local prosperity , the Government have impose a huge national insurance hike that will make it more expensive to employ people . this rise , which break labour ' s manifesto commitment not to raise national insurance , will cost sme £ 732 more per year for every employee earn £ 20 , 000 . this tax on job will stifle growth and lead to high unemployment . the rise in national insurance be especially damaging to those in the healthcare sector , and the propose amendment will help to assess the damage that that cause . last week , representative from the social care — order . in the interest of complete impartiality , I want to make sure that all member be aware that they have to speak to the amendment as propose in this Finance Bill , not any other amendment that they might wish have be propose . I be grateful for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . People in the social care sector in Bridgwater be particularly concerned that the national insurance contribution rise have not be subject to an assessment . assess the damage that it and the other tax rise will do be therefore critical to the successful implementation of this Finance Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and for his assessment of the Finance Bill . do he agree that the good way the Government can raise revenue be not to raise taxis but to grow the economy and increase the money take through taxis in that way ? do he also agree that the national insurance contribution increase will deliver the very opposite of what the Government say ? they will not grow the economy at all ; they will stifle it , which be likely to lead to an increase in taxis in the future . I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s intervention . indeed , combine with the rise in the minimum wage and labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , the content of this Finance Bill seem to deliberately set out to harm small business . the Labour Government ' s plan to introduce inheritance tax on farmer and family business be more evidence , if it be need , that they do not understand how farm and small business work . under this Government , a family farm with land , building and machinery worth £ 5 million will incur inheritance tax of £ 400 , 000 when it pass to the next generation . that same farm might produce a return of 1 % , or £ 50 , 000 , in an average year , so the Government be propose to take all that family ' s income for the next eight year . I have a question for the Minister : how do he expect that family to live in the meantime ? labour ' s response to our farmer have be to sneer at our rural community . the Treasury offer a Minister to farming representative , who then spend that time tell they that there be not a problem . this be bad not just for farmer but for rural economy and our nation ' s food security . this Finance Bill increase taxis , spending and borrowing . it make our public sector large and the private sector small . it do exactly the opposite of what be require . if we want a prosperous society , we need to encourage enterprise . we need low and simple taxis that incentivise people to work hard , to invest and to grow their business . this Finance Bill do exactly the opposite , and that be why we will oppose it this evening . I want to thank the member who have speak so far . I have great enthusiasm for the Finance Bill , and I thank the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) for his contribution , alongside the Minister at the time , over the several day I sit through the Bill ' s Committee stage . I speak in favour of the Finance Bill as a member of the Committee . I recognise that it be part of the Government ' s mission to turn the page on what be a period of decline for the country . there be several aspect of the Bill that I would like to focus on . to begin with , I see the Government ' s proposal on non - dom status as a crucial part of our agenda to ensure that we be deliver a fair approach to taxation in this country . close the non - dom loophole , alongside extend the levy on oil and gas company and end the vat exemption for private school through this Bill , will raise the necessary income to deliver what the Government be try to do : achieve a balanced budget that will stabilise and then grow the economy . if it turn out that the energy profit levy , lug up to even high level , lead to a low tax take than there would have be if it be at a low level , would the hon . Lady think that that be a mistake and urge her colleague to change course ? minister have provide an assurance of their assessment , and they do not believe that will be the case . the Government be take a rounded approach to energy that , alongside our commitment to GB Energy and to a transfer to more renewable energy , will allow there to be a more mission - lead approach . I take the right hon . member ' s point , but the Government have provide assurance that there will be constant monitoring and that if change be require they will deliver they . the hon . member will be aware that there be a mechanism within the Government ' s energy profit levy , which will kick in in 2030 , to ensure that if energy price start to go down , the levy will cease to work . so there be an intrinsic link between the money that the energy company pay and energy price . do she agree , give that energy price have now go up for the third time in a row and all our constituent be struggle with energy price , that it be right that the big oil and gas company should pay their fair share , but that when energy price come down , the levy will stop ? I absolutely support the principle of be able to use a mechanism to intervene in a market that be not work , and I think the Government ' s approach be right . there be an immediate issue with high pricing , certainly , but the truth be that the Government have to be able to take decision for the long run . I be conscious that Madam Deputy Speaker might intervene and tell I to focus on the new clause , but as I say early , a long - term approach to ensure that we have a just transition that see energy stabilise for people across the country on a long - term basis be really important . the Government ' s approach to energy levy be the right one , our focus on maintain particular clause on vat on private school be important , and , as I have say , the proposal on non - dom status be crucial . the energy profit levy be expect to cause huge amount of instability for North sea firm , drive away investment , drive down employment and drive business away from the North sea to invest abroad . do that sound like stability , and if so , will it bring employment , economic growth and low price to the country , because it do not sound like the stability or investment environment that we be look for ? the Government ' s commitment on investment , whether through the wealth fund or the private sector combination of GB Energy , bring stability to the sector in the long term . the truth be there be an energy crisis that affect my constituent and people across the country . at this moment , effort have to be take to ensure that we do everything we can to bring down the price people experience in their bill on a day - to - day - basis . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress and conclude in a moment . politic be full of choice . the Government have to balance the book and take a decision to ensure that we close the black hole , so the choice they have make feel like the fair one . a long - term commitment to ensure that we have stability in the energy market , while ensure that people who need help right now can benefit , be the correct approach . I be happy to support the Government ' s position on the Bill . it be a Bill that set out the right choice , as I have say , and it be the first important step to ensure that the country be back on the road to recovery after a dark period , where people be impact not just through an economic crash , but in their day - to - day live through a cost of living crisis . I will speak to new clause 7 and 8 . as the MP for Wimbledon , I be proud to represent a constituency with such a rich and diverse educational offering , include fantastic primary and secondary school in both the independent and state sector . but recent government decision , include the increase in employer NI contribution on all school , the removal of business rate relief and the imposition of vat on school fee at independent school , be push many in the state and private sector to the brink . the change to independent school have cause considerable concern in my constituency , as can be clearly see by the over 1 , 000 signature from my constituent on the petition be debate today in Westminster Hall . it be my belief and that of my party , as Liberals , that education should not be tax and individual should be able to freely make choice about how their child be educate . the ambition should be to reach a point where the state offering for school be so high that no parent feel particularly compel to send their child to independent school . however , these ideologically drive policy of tax education be not the solution . they simply put far strain on the state sector while financially hit those who make what they believe to be the good choice for their child . these policy be a piece of red meat to show that the red flag be still flutter on the Labour Benches . admittedly , the long - term impact that the change will have on school be still to be see , but the early sign be not good . this academic year we have already see a drop of 10 , 000 pupil at independent school — three time high than the Government estimate . many believe that the change will not be a one - off event , but the start of a long period , with more pupil expect to leave independent school in the come year , make any financial gain to improve the state sector illusory . it be important to note that the cost per pupil be likely large than the national average due to the sheer number of student in the independent sector who have special educational need . the Independent Schools Council estimate that over 130 , 000 pupil in independent school have special educational need , with 90 , 000 of they receive special educational need and disability support with no education , health and care plan . independent school in my constituency , such as the Hall school , Wimbledon high school and Donhead prep school , to name but three , do a huge amount to support child with special educational need , and many parent choose to send their child there for that reason alone . I have speak to many parent who have make tough financial sacrifice to send their child to those school . they speak of the barrier to their child receive the support they need in the state sector , include long waiting list to receive an EHCP . the change be already force many to reconsider their decision because they simply no long can afford to use the private sector to relieve pressure on the state system . as be well document , there be huge issue around the provision of SEND support in state school , with many child wait year for support and many school not be able to provide the support they would like to due to budgetary restraint . at a time when the Government and local council be already struggle to support school with the money they need for SEND support , avoid further strain on state school be vital — these decision do the opposite . turn to new clause 8 , I draw the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I will speak about the impact the Bill will have on the wine industry , the night - time economy and hospitality in general . under the current wine easement , 85 % of all wine sell in the UK be subject to the same rate of duty . with the alcohol duty now set to be link to the volume of alcohol in each bottle of wine , that will be replace by 30 — yes , 30 — different rate of duty . while I understand the Government ' s broad intention , the new regime be simply not workable in the context of wine . it fail to account for the fundamental difference between wine and other more manufactured drink . the alcohol by volume of wine can not be predict with precision before or during the wine - make process . the alcohol content be stable only at the point when the wine go into the bottle . the ABV vary between different year and vat . until bottle , we do not know the ABV of a particular bottle . it therefore create huge uncertainty about price and profit margin for the industry if there be different rate of duty depend on the specific abv , down to a gradation of 0 . 1 % . that be particularly important with low - cost wine . this regime be utterly impractical for wine producer and merchant . Hal Wilson , co - founder of Cambridge Wine Merchants , tell I : " in my business this feel like death by a thousand cut , or even two thousand cut . we sell over 2 , 000 different wine each year and from February will need to know the precise abv of each and every one before be able to calculate their full cost . for each 0 . 1 % ABV difference there be a different amount of tax to be pay . " I write to the Minister about the matter and receive a long and detailed response , for which I be grateful . he make the point that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will change its practice and accept the ABV on the label of the bottle to the near 0 . 5 % , but that be current practice ; it be not in the legislation as I understand it . it be still far too complex and much of my criticism still hold . secondly , the letter fundamentally misunderstand why people drink wine . Wine be consume primarily for the taste , not the strength . the ABV affect the taste profile . compare a light Beaujolais with a robust Rioja — it be all about taste , not whether it be strong so one can get more drunk . that be not how people consume wine . turn briefly to hospitality and the night - time economy , the industry face an existential crisis owe to the cost of living crisis , rise energy price , inflation , labour shortage follow Brexit , change to commute pattern and the more than double of business rate . the increase in alcohol duty will be yet another burden . every incremental cost make survival more difficult , as I know myself , and the Bill show that the Government be still not take the danger seriously . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate — be it the end ? no , I be sure it be not . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I so soon ; I be just get myself prepared . this be an opportunity to speak on this Bill one last time . I have speak every time it have come to the Chamber , and I be pleased to do so again . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , refer in his contribution , which be helpful for set the tone and level of the debate on these important issue , to the impact of the inheritance tax change on small and medium farm . that need to be raise at every opportunity until the Government understand the devastation that it will wrought on farmer , cause they to sell their land and their future to pay the Government . I have sit beside the Minister and ask for the threshold to be increase . if the threshold be increase by £ 1 million to £ 5 million for farm , it would mean that many farm would not be penalise by the change . the Government urgently need to promote food security in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . this decision beggar belief . if they be aim the measure at those who abuse the system , they should design a scheme for they — not a scheme that affect many farmer across this great United Kingdom , include 70 % of farmer in Northern Ireland . the other major concern be that of the NI contribution . GP clinic and health centre be the late to suggest that they will have reduce hour and capacity because of the constraint of their NI contribution . that must not be the case . I support the Opposition ' s new clause 2 , on " Energy ( oil and gas ) " . the shadow Minister make the case for it extremely well , and other have speak to it . I agree with they , and my party will support the new clause if it be press to a Division , as I understand it will be . on new clause 8 , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , who speak for the Lib Dems , refer to the whisky sector . I will make the case for Irish Whiskey Association , which be clear when I meet it before Christmas that the measure will have a great impact on a sector that be already under pressure . let we be honest : most irish whiskey organisation ' trade be under pressure . they export most of their whiskey to make their money , but the fact of the matter be that they find that extremely difficult to do . they tell I clearly that if they be tax more heavily , it will lead to job loss and a reduction in what they be able to do . they do incredible work for the community . I have know the owner of three whiskey distillery in my constituency — Rademon , Hinch and Echlinville distillery — since they have have their business , and they be concerned about the impact of the measure . rise — whenever the hon . Lady push her new clause , we will support it . I give way . the hon . member will be acutely aware that there be huge supply chain . distiller be fantastic for attract people , include in the tourism industry , to create strong local economy . there be huge innovation go on in that industry . it be essential that the Government carry out an impact assessment not just of how much the measure will cost and of the tax revenue to the Treasury , but of the operational cost and the red tape over the 12 month before the measure , which will cause havoc , come in . do he agree ? the hon . Lady make her point succinctly . I hope that the Minister have hear her comment about the impact . her concern be certainly my concern — indeed , the concern of all member on the Opposition Benches . she refer to the review of the impact on small and medium - sized enterprise . I understand that new clause 4 will not be press to a vote , but if it be , it be another that my party would support . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern that there seem to be a disconnect between some of the statement make by the Government about the impact , or lack of impact , of the measure on small and medium - sized enterprise , and the fact that , week after week , small business and family business tell we , as constituency MPs , that they will have to reconsider much of their investment and recruitment plan for the come year as a result of the measure in the Bill ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . that be what my small and medium - sized enterprise tell I — and , I believe , everyone else on the Opposition Benches — about that . ultimately , whenever the national insurance contribution be pass on to business , they will pass it on again to the customer — the wee man and the wee woman . they be the people that the Labour party — the party of conscience — say that it represent , but it will penalise they . do the hon . Member agree that the national insurance contribution rise for small and medium - sized business be not only pass on to the consumer but be damaging for the economy as a whole , because it stifle growth ? growth , not increase tax rate , be the way to increase the tax take for the Treasury . the hon . Gentleman be right — he make that point well . one business in my constituency employ 1 , 200 people . it tell I just before the new year that those measure would cost it £ 1 . 1 million per year . I ask , " what be you go to do to address that extra cost ? " it say , " we can not absorb very much of it , so we will pass it on . " that be exactly what will happen . if we want to promote growth , we have to consider all the aspect and problem . let I turn to new clause 7 , which I mention during my intervention on the shadow Minister , in relation to private school — a last - ditch effort to highlight the plight of the independent school . it be not design to help the wealthy elite . the family I know who send their child to independent faith school be not the sort to drive a Rolls or have a massive palatial house ; they be ordinary people who scrimp and save to send their child to those school . they be not one to demand that their child have access to a polo field or a swimming pool — although there be nothing wrong with that for parent who can afford it ; I be not criticise anyone who can . my plea be for small faith school , and for international student who would be swallow up by the mainstream system . let I outline one example . Bangor Independent christian school seek to provide a state standard of education within the sacrifice of that faith . the school provide standard GCSE English , but with a difference , as it lobby for a great selection of book to focus on — book that do not push the boat out in term of language or relationship scenario . parent be and be happy to pay additionally towards that education to support that . I will give the example of my parliamentary aide . she consider private school not because she think that her child be above anybody else , but because a case come through our office in Newtownards with an excerpt from a book that be highly offensive to the Christian , Muslim and Hindu faith — indeed , to anyone of any faith . the parent be tell that that book be use in the curriculum and that the school would not censor it . no one ask for censorship ; they just ask for their child to be remove . that could not happen in mainstream school . the parent be concerned that their child could be read book that highlight the allure of pornography but not the problem of pornography . there be something seriously wrong when that happen in a school . in the end , that person settle for another school with the ethos of a welcoming christian state school . the Government will penalise those school through vat , to the extent that parent and their child will have to consider their future . they have be push towards an education system because they have concern , but they do not have any protection in that system . the Minister know that I put thing forward in a constructive fashion , like other member , and I try not to be aggressive , so I point out respectfully to the Government that the role of faith school be imperative in give a structured and good education . the vat measure have the potential to push parent into debt or close school . homeschooling be great for parent who have the ability and the desire , but for those who do not , a high school education be a dangerous thing to attempt to provide without help . it be for those parent and child that I urge the Government , at this last hour , to find a loophole for small faith school and school that focus on international pupil whose parent work here and know that their child need small and more focused class . for those child , I sincerely urge a rethink . the Minister could move the threshold to large school , if that be what he be aim for , or come up with a system that give small faith school a chance to survive . the Government must leave small school and faith school to educate child with a world view that have a nod towards parental value and moral concern . I will crack on with new clause 2 , as it relate to the Government ' s catastrophic management of the fiscal regime for Scotland ' s oil and gas . in December , Norway ' s sovereign wealth fund touch € 1 . 7 trillion , but Scotland be no wealthy now in real term than we be when North sea oil and gas be discover in the 1970 . More than £ 400 billion have flow from scottish water to the Treasury over the year , with very little come back the other way . rather than reverse that trend , the Labour party have choose to accelerate it with an increase in the energy profit levy . the windfall tax be suppose to apply to the extraordinarily high profit from the high global oil price that precede its introduction , but that level have long since go . through its change to the EPL , the Labour party jeopardise investment and , in do so , the future of our skilled offshore energy workforce and our ability to hit net zero . analysis from Offshore Energies UK show that the increase to and extension of the EPL risk cost the economy £ 13 billion , which will in turn cost up to 35 , 000 job . the analysis also show a reduction in viable capital investment offshore from £ 14 . 1 billion to £ 2 . 3 billion in the period 2025 to 2029 as a result of the change that the Government be plan in the EPL . that loss of economic value impact not only on the core sector itself but on the domestic onshore supply company , many of which be in my constituency , and many of which will have a role to play in the just transition . that reflect a political choice by the Labour party to deprioritise investment in the decarbonisation agenda . rather than allow a more valuable decarbonisation relief as the solitary positive by - product of its tax hike , Labour have ensure that there can be absolutely no silver lining to this policy cloud . the simple truth be that the UK can not meet the net zero target or create green growth if the Labour party ' s policy hack away at both investment and the domestic workforce that we need to deliver the energy transition . it be clear that the Labour party be abandon Scotland ' s exist energy sector , and put at risk the just transition in the process . with those change to the EPL , Labour will have create a bad - of - all - world scenario whereby it starve industry of investment , sacrifice the job that we need to deliver net zero , put at risk our energy security , will not bring down energy bill , and harm the economy of Scotland , while fail to invest the money require to truly deliver the benefit that we all need to see from the just transition . do the hon . Gentleman think that there be a real challenge in term of the policy that the Government be encouraging ? a much quick retreat from the North sea will bring forward the decommissioning cost , which have not be take into account by the Treasury and will add billion and billion of pound in extra cost to the UK taxpayer . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct : wherever we look , the fiscal ambition of the Labour Government on North sea oil and gas , or energy more generally , seem to be counterproductive . they be introduce a policy that anybody with a pass understanding of the industry realise will have precisely the opposite result of its stated aim , but the Government will not listen , much to my regret . analysis from OEUK show that the oil and gas sector ' s total tax yield will peak in 2026 under Labour ' s increase in the EPL before decline , compare with the previous scenario , in which Treasury receipt continue to increase over the period . the analysis show that while the expect tax take from UK oil and gas producer would increase in the very short term , ultimately it will result in a £ 12 billion net loss to tax receipt compare with the current regime . if the Labour party do not care about the job that the policy will cost , the harm it will do to the just transition or the damage to the economy of Scotland , surely Labour can accept that a tax increase that actually reduce the amount of tax receive be , at good , counterproductive . that be why the SNP will support new clause 2 if it be press to a Division . the SNP appreciate the many and varied reason why parent choose to use private school , but it be not fair or sustainable to treat private school fee differently from other discretionary spend for the purpose of vat . the vat exemption offer to private school cost the UK taxpayer £ 1 . 6 billion annually — money that could be invest in other public service . however , the SNP also understand that for many parent whose child be enrol in private school the UK Government ' s decision to remove that exemption will be extremely worrying . the Scottish Government have seek to ensure that the distinctive nature of the scottish education system be understand by the UK Government in this transition . in particular , the Scottish Government have raise concern with the UK Government about the decision to include grant - aid special school in the policy . in Scots law , they be not consider independent school . in Scotland , there be a clear distinction in educational law between grant - aid special school and independent school , and the UK Government ' s policy regrettably do not reflect that . I know the Minister studiously avoid almost everything that I say , but I hope that he hear that , and I would be very grateful if he could address it when he sum up . on Scotch whisky , when the last Tory Government hike whisky duty , the tax revenue raise from the industry fall by £ 300 million . that should have be a salutary lesson to any Government who come afterwards . the sensible option for both support Scotch whisky and Treasury receipt would have be to cut whisky duty . instead , the Labour party be raise it again . on top of that , we now have a UK Government plan to grant a different definition of a single malt to english producer than that of scottish single malt . the definition be entirely inconsistent with the global reputation of the quality of single malt , and seek to tear up a well - establish dictionary definition of a single malt while pull the rug from underneath Scotch whisky producer . the Government must listen to warning from the industry , the Scottish Government and those from across the political spectrum , and scrap the plan and duty hike , which be an act of sabotage to Scotland ' s world - class industry . the industry already face the risk of Trump tariff , which cost over £ 600 million in export the last time they be apply under his first presidential term . rather than further damage from the UK Government , the industry need support , start with the reversal of the plan to hike duty still far . it be high time that Westminster finally listen to organisation such as the Scotch Whisky Association and stop discriminate against Scotland ' s national drink , which support more than 40 , 000 job and deliver more than £ 7 . 1 billion to the London Treasury every year . the SNP will support new clause 8 if it be press . I have speak consistently about what be under debate in the Bill , but the wide context can not be ignore . labour have no cogent plan for reform the economy . it seek to reduce the deficit and not raise taxis , and it want to stimulate growth with large investment . it be impossible to do all those thing at once , and it be astonishing that the Government seem to persist with this wilful ignorance . a government may increase spending to kick - start the economy and deliver growth and public service , but that require tax increase and / or deficit spending , both of which the Labour Government be too scared to pursue because of their short - sighted election promise to abide by fiscal rule and not increase the high - revenue source . we be therefore stick in the bad of all possible world , with insufficient growth — especially green growth — insufficient investment , a deficit cause a rise debt burden , and no way to increase revenue meaningfully . the UK Government be bizarrely persist with gaslighte themselves in think that they be " fix the foundation " and deliver growth . they be do nothing of the sort , and if they stick with this Bill and the Budget on which it be predicate , they never will . finally , be it not astonish that when farmer push back on agricultural property relief , family business push back on business property relief , pensioner push back on their winter fuel allowance , the Scotch whisky industry push back on duty hike , the North sea oil and gas industry push back on the EPL , and when the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign push back , they be all tell , " no . the situation be too bad . you ' ve just get to suck it up , " but when the non - dom push back , they get sweep right to the heart of the Treasury and the Chancellor , and they get whatever they want ? that be the Labour Government . I will speak in favour of new clause 4 , table in the name of my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . the amendment would require the Government to carry out an impact assessment on the change that the legislation would introduce for small and medium - sized business . small business be the backbone of our economy and the heart of our local community , and they create the job that we all rely on . I hear time and again from the small business across my constituency that they be struggle to keep up with soar energy price , business rate and the cost of export . the Chancellor be absolutely right to be focus on economic growth ; however , my Liberal Democrat colleague and I be deeply concerned about the impact of the change in the Bill on our high street , and particularly on those in the hospitality industry , who be very concerned about the impact that duty rise on wine , beer and cider will have . the wellbeing of small business act as an indicator of the health of the economy as a whole . as such , the new clause would be a useful tool to allow we to understand the broad implication of the legislation on our economic prosperity . more broadly , an impact assessment would look at the combined effect on small business , both directly and indirectly , of all policy in the Bill to ensure that sme remain at the heart of the Government ' s economic policy . it be crucial that the necessary tough spending decision to clear up the mess that the previous Conservative Government leave behind do not hit our small local business , which be vital to our economy . to encourage growth for our small business , the Chancellor should be look to reduce the burden on business through mean such as cut Brexit red tape , secure well trade deal with Europe and enter a custom union . the combination of the cost of hire staff , the cost of additional red tape and high business rate will be simply too much for many sme to absorb , which be why I urge the Minister to support our new clause and assess the impact of the legislation on local business . I also wish to speak in favour of new clause 7 , which would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the vat provision in the Bill on pupil who have special educational need but do not have an education , health and care plan . the Liberal Democrats do not support impose vat on private school fee , and we do not support treat independent school differently to other education provider for vat purpose . it be unnecessary , unfair and counterproductive . almost 100 , 000 privately educate pupil in the UK have special educational need , yet do not have an ehcp . these child will face significant disruption to their education , as many parent will find that they can not afford the sharp fee increase . the consequence of the Bill will include a steep rise in demand for local authority to issue ehcp and a rapid influx of pupil into the state system . local authority resource for special educational need and disability be already stretch to breaking point , and many state school will struggle to cope with the additional demand . new clause 7 demand transparency on the impact that the policy will have on pupil across the UK . this change will have a disproportionate impact on child with SEND , which will create not just hardship for those child and their parent , but enormous difficulty for the local authority and state school that will be require to provide alternative schooling . I urge the Government to back the new clause and reconsider this policy . it be a pleasure to take part in tonight ' s debate on the Finance Bill , and on the amendment and new clause that have be table . the debate follow several remarkable day and this afternoon ' s session when pretty much the whole House come together to congratulate the Prime Minister on his composure and leadership on Ukraine . the need to rebuild our military capability and our hard power as this decade go on , if we be to ensure the security of Ukraine , Europe , include the UK , and the wide world , be make clear . the Finance Bill have be introduce in that context , because the only way to deliver that security be by have a strong economy and the economic growth that colleague from across the House have discuss , yet this Budget be the most growth - destructive Budget imaginable . as we look at the amendment and new clause , it be worth go back over the context of the Bill , follow the pandemic and the energy crisis , which continue in some way . thank to the hard decision make by the Conservatives , which do not always lead to our popularity and in fact contribute to our electoral disaster last July , inflation be back on target at 2 % when the election come . we be the fast grow economy in the G7 and some 4 million additional job have be create . that be the legacy . the incoming Labour Government , with their unprecedented majority and the good will to get on and do something , need to hold their nerve and recognise that the key component for economic growth have be put in place , which be vital to meet the demand of the NHS , an age population and an ever more dangerous world . instead , what we get from this Labour Government be the most disastrous economic suicide note in history , which have be devastating for the popularity of their party . never have such a huge majority be squander so quickly . new clause 1 address the tax that will be take from a state pension . the Labour Government propose that someone whose only income be the state pension could pay tax on that income . forget the winter fuel payment be take away as well — be that really what Labour Members come here hope to do ? I do not think they do , so new clause 1 , which would ensure that we look at that , understand it and look for opportunity to change it , be sensible . new clause 3 look at the overall tax impact on household and set our an approach that have to be right . my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) give a powerful speech at the beginning of the debate and I fully support the point he make . we have hear powerful speech from across the House on special educational need . again , I say to Labour Members , do they really get elect to come here and target child with special educational need ? some 100 , 000 child who be in the private sector do not have an education , health and care plan , even though they be eligible for one . they will be force out of their school with no notice and no time to change and plan . it be a cruel policy that the Labour party should be ashamed of . I fully support amendment 67 to 69 , which focus on vat on private school , as well as new clause 7 propose by the Liberal Democrats , which be speak to powerfully by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) . on non - dom , it be ironic that , as colleague have say , the Government have not listen to pensioner , small business , farmer and all those with domestic interest . one might have think that the Government would want to listen to they , reflect and make some change to lower the negative impact , but none of they have be listen to in the least . but non - dom in Davos ? the Chancellor have go off there and there be some change on non - dom , but let we not let the Government off entirely on that , because drive out the very rich , who bring we a massively disproportionate amount of revenue , be not sensible . socialist often put equality above all other value . as Churchill say : " the inherent vice of capitalism be the unequal sharing of blessing . the inherent virtue of Socialism be the equal sharing of misery . " — [ Official Report , 22 October 1945 ; Vol . 414 , c . 1703 . ] one of the great way of create more equality in this country be to drive all the rich people out ; drive all the people out who invest , give we job and take little from public service , but contribute enormously to they . that always go down well with the union backer of the Labour party . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I promise I would not go on for too long , so I be go to sit down — [ interruption . ] more ! I say I would speak for six minute and I have now speak for six minute , but interestingly I have not talk about the main topic I be go to touch on : oil and gas . I make my point in an early intervention , but I appeal to the Government because put up taxis on oil and gas in the North sea will mean that there will be ten of thousand of job loss , and a loss of engineering and other capacity in this country , which be vital to the transition to net zero . in response to my interaction with the hon . member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) early , no one expect the tax take from this sector to go up in the come year as a result of the measure ; the tax take will go down . the rate can be put up to such a level that it mean there will be a low tax take ; the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) speak powerfully about that as well . the hon . member for Barking appear to accept that point , and she seem to have a belief in the Minister on the Front Bench that they would listen if it turn out that that be a short - sighted move . if it mean that we import more oil and gas from abroad — by the way , that almost always have a high embed carbon content than domestically produce oil and gas — that do not benefit the environment , it certainly do not benefit all the job that we would have in this country , and it lose us tax revenue . it be truly a crazy policy . I appeal to Labour Members , especially the new Members , on this point . we hear from the distinguished economist the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) early , who be retread his speech for about the fourth time , little realise it be suppose to be focus on these particular amendment — [ interruption . ] anyway , he do it with great good humour . but I would ask he to take his finely hone mind and address these issue . if the oil and gas policy be as crazy as every expert witness say it be , then he and other should suggest that the Government change course . the hon . member for Barking say that the Government should consider change course if the policy do not deliver what it be suppose to deliver , so I ask Government Members to support the amendment that we have put down tonight and oppose this ridiculous Bill . I look forward to hear from the Minister . at the heart of the Prime Minister ' s plan for change be our mission to grow the economy to put more money in people ' s pocket . we be determined to make people well off . we know that investment and growth depend on the essential foundation of economic stability , fiscal responsibility and public service be on a firm footing , but this Government inherit a challenging and unsustainable set of future spending plan base on unfunded commitment that have not be share with the OBR or the british people . no responsible Government could have let thing carry on as they be . that be why at the autumn Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out the Government ' s plan to fix the foundation of the economy and deliver change — a plan to protect work people , fix public service , include the NHS , and rebuild Britain . that have mean take difficult decision on tax , spending and welfare to repair the public finance and support investment in public service , and the Government have do that while protect people ' s payslip . we have also ensure that the UK be one of the good place in the world to grow a business , with corporation tax cap at 25 % and reform that will support small business and the british high street . this Finance Bill represent the next step in deliver on the autumn Budget by legislate for several key manifesto commitment , support business to invest and implement reform to the tax system . I thank all hon . member for their contribution during the debate ; before I turn to the individual amendment , I will briefly address some of the point that they make . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) for set out the importance of growth and make people well off , and for his thorough analysis of all the amendment and new clause to the Bill , which I seem to recall . perhaps that be in fact my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , who do go through all the new clause — I thank he for his contribution . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) for be on the Finance Bill Committee , although I note her description that she " sit through " it , rather than thoroughly enjoy the episode . I also thank Opposition Members for their contribution to the debate . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) recognise that even in his view , he could agree with a few point in our Bill , which I welcome . I invite the Minister to explain how the Budget would improve the lot of farmer . in particular , I give the example of the £ 5 million family farm that would incur an inheritance charge of £ 400 , 000 . how will that family pay that out of an annual income of about £ 50 , 000 ? that be eight year ' income , with nothing to live on . the debate on this Finance Bill have to focus on matter that be within the Bill and in the new clause and amendment . as the hon . Gentleman will know , and as Madam Deputy Speaker remind he , he stray rather outside the ambit of the Finance Bill by refer to important change to agricultural property relief that be not deal with by the Bill or by any of the new clause or amendment . I gently point out that any of his constituent , whatever industry they work in , will see that the income tax on their earning do not go up as a result of this Government keep their commitment in that regard . the Minister be right to point to the amendment in front of we . new clause 3 look at household income specifically . if he be so confident in the measure he and the Chancellor be put forward , why will he not accept new clause 3 , which have the ability to show just how fantastic the Budget and the Finance Bill be from the evidence base that we have ? I be hope that the hon . Gentleman would again leap to the defence of Liz Truss , as he do just last week . sadly , that be not to be the case in his intervention . I will come on to the new clause in a moment ; I be only halfway through thank people on his side of the House for intervene , so I would be grateful if he would let I make a little progress . the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) speak about his concern that thing will be unworkable when the wine easement end , but it end over a month ago . our early indication be that firm , warehouse keeper and HMRC have adapt well to the new system , although I and my official will carefully monitor the situation . have the Minister actually speak to people in the wine industry ? they be absolutely at their wit ' end about this . I have be in routine contact with people from the wine industry throughout my time as Exchequer Secretary , and my official be also in touch with the industry . as I say , the end of the wine easement happen at the beginning of February , and our early indication be that firm , warehouse keeper and HMRC have adapt well . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) make a rare early speech during the debate , which rather take I by surprise . he raise his point with typical grace and forthrightness . I will address some of his point later in my remark , but on the point about the impact of change in the Finance Bill on some of the firm that export their spirit , I remind he that duty do not apply to export . that part of the legislation would not be relevant to those consideration . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) speak about several topic ; I will briefly address two of they . he speak about the energy profit levy , which I will come on to more substantively in a moment . I briefly underscore the fact that the Government be commit to manage the energy transition in a way that support job in exist and future industry , and GB Energy will of course be base in Aberdeen . on the hon . Gentleman ' s question about schooling in Scotland , if I understand it correctly , I should say that in line with the approach take to special school in the rest of the UK grant - aid special school in Scotland will remain in scope of this policy . the block grant that the Scottish Government provide to grant - aid special school fall outside the scope of vat , as they be not pupil - specific . fund that local authority pay for individual pupil will be subject to vat , but local authority can reclaim that vat via the section 33 vat refund scheme . I hope that go some way towards answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) speak to the Lib Dem amendment , which I will turn to in one moment . I always enjoy the contribution of the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , and I be always interested to hear what he have to say , but I note that he seem to have develop rather a blind spot when it come to remember the inheritance that we have from the previous Government , whom he support . I turn to the amendment table by the Government , then those table by the Opposition , on Report . as hon . member will be aware , one measure that the Bill deliver be our commitment to remove the outdated concept of domicile status from the tax system . from 6 April 2025 , it will be replace by a new residence - base regime , ensure that everyone who make their home in the UK pay their taxis here , with our approach raise an additional £ 12 . 7 billion in revenue over the forecast period . the Government be clear that our new residence - base regime will be internationally competitive and focus on attract the good talent and investment to the UK . this be very complex legislation , so it be the Government ' s expectation that amendment would be require during the parliamentary passage of the Bill to ensure that the draft align with the policy intention . accordingly , we be table minor technical change and administrative easement that will ensure that the regime work as intend . I turn first to the amendment relate to the new four - year foreign income and gain regime . the Government be make technical change to the legislation that will ensure that any claim by individual for relief on foreign income and gain be properly account for with regard to access to other form of tax relief . further amendment make change to maintain the competitiveness of the new regime by ensure equal treatment of gain in trust that migrate to the UK , and those that do not , for the purpose of relief on those gain . I turn to the amendment to clause 40 and schedule 9 , which abolish the remittance basis of taxation from 6 April . the amendment make change to correct reference to domicile find in other legislation , as well as ensure that the rule around remittance of intangible asset work as intend . in addition , the amendment will ensure that individual who have make remittance while non - resident for a long period will not be tax if they use the amount previously remit after resume their UK residence . I turn to the amendment relate to the temporary repatriation facility , or the TRF . these change be announce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor in January and be intend to address specific concern raise by non - dom and expert about the operation of the TRF . together , these amendment will ensure that the legislation align with the policy intent and ultimately increase the amount of trust distribution that can be designate by address specific barrier to use the TRF . further amendment address inconsistency in clause 41 , with the effect of make the TRF easy to use and ensure that the new residence - base regime work as intend . I turn to the amendment relate to the taxation of foreign income and gain arise in settlor - interested trust . these change will ensure that the legislation function as intend , include by expand the TRF to cover trust distribution as previously explain and by incorporate change base on feedback from external stakeholder . finally , the Government have propose 11 technical amendment to the new residence - base system for inheritance tax . these change ensure that the new rule work as intend by address a mismatch between the new long - term UK residence test and the old inheritance tax rule for deem domicile when it come to operate within several of the UK ' s double taxation agreement . the Government have also table several amendment to provide clarity on the treatment of exist exclude property trust , while also relax the test for whether the inheritance tax carve - out apply . as a result , the property will only need to be offshore immediately before the transfer or the settlor ' s death , rather than be keep offshore until that time . that easement will enable trust to invest in the UK in the interim , thereby help to grow the economy . as I mention in my opening remark , the Finance Bill not only deliver on our plan to repair the public finance , but support the investment necessary for long - term economic growth . such investment be , of course , crucial for clean energy , an area in which the Prime Minister ' s plan for change make clear that we be commit to secure the UK ' s place as a global leader . [ interruption . ] that be why we be support the repurposing of oil and gas asset for use in carbon capture , usage and storage by legislate to allow tax relief on payment make into decommissioning fund . I will move on , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will perhaps not go into some of the amendment in as much depth as I have hope , as I be get very well attuned to the subtle signal from my hon . friend . will the Minister give way before he move on ? one more time . the Minister be gracious , if not always in the whip ' good book . do he expect pensioner who be solely reliant on the state pension to get draw into tax and the need to produce a tax return ? have he make an assessment of that , and what kind of number would there be ? as the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , in the come financial year 2025 - 26 the personal allowance will be above the level of the new state pension , so what he say should not apply when it be people ' s sole income . however , there be already case of individual pensioner who do owe tax ; indeed , around two third of pensioner pay tax , because they also have private pension . they pay via pay - as - you - earn or self - assessment . I will not go into detail about the Government amendment to visual effect relief , because I assume they have the consent of the whole House . however , I will briefly speak to some of the amendment table by Opposition Members , as I feel I should address they . I will take together new clause 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 and 8 , which would require the Government to review the number of individual receive the full state pension and their income tax liability over the next four year , and to publish various impact assessment regard the impact of change to the energy profit levy , as well as the impact of the Bill on household , small and medium - sized enterprise , distillery , wine producer and the hospitality industry . the Government remain opposed to all of these new clause , for the same reason that I give in Committee . first , the relevant information on those receive the state pension and their tax liability be already publish by HMRC , the Department for Work and Pensions and the OBR , and be publicly available . in new clause 8 , which deal with alcohol pricing , we have make explicit that we be not just look for an impact assessment of the tax that the Government intend to raise . it be about the estimate of administrative operational cost — that is , the red tape that be go to be put on the industry . do the Minister agree that we need that impact assessment , and will he meet I to discuss how we can do it ? the impact of the change to the alcohol duty and the energy profit levy have already be set out in the tax information and impact note that be publish alongside the autumn Budget , so that information be already in the public domain . information on the impact on household be also publish alongside the autumn Budget in the " Impact on household " report , which demonstrate that household be on average well off in 2025 - 26 as a result of these decision . finally , I will address the amendment table by the Opposition that deal with vat on private school fee — several hon . member have speak about that matter . amendment 67 to 69 would collectively remove clause 47 to 49 , which remove the vat exemption for private school and set out anti - forestalling provision and the commencement date . end the vat tax break for private school be a tough but necessary decision that will secure the additional funding need to help deliver on our commitment , include those relate to education and young people . this policy take effect at the beginning of January , and I note that in his speech , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , do not say how his party would pay for its decision to reintroduce that tax break for private school . the policy will raise £ 1 . 7 billion by the final year of this Parliament , so it be essential that the opposition explain what they would cut from the school budget , from education service , or from any other public service to pay for the reintroduction of that tax break . I will happily give way if the shadow Minister would like to make an intervention to place on record how he will pay for it . I do not see he leap to his foot , so I will move on . finally in the debate we be have about vat on private school , the Government set out the expect impact of this policy in the autumn Budget , so I do not believe that new clause 7 — which would require the Government to make a regular statement on the impact of pupil with special educational need and disability — be necessary . however , I take this opportunity to make clear that in develop this policy , the Government carefully consider the impact it would have , include on pupil with special educational need and disability . I be sure that the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) and her colleague will welcome the extra £ 1 billion next year for high need funding that we have be able to announce thank to our decision on tax policy , include on private school . I hope I have set out why the Opposition amendment be unnecessary , and indeed why reintroduce the vat tax break for private school not only run counter to the manifesto on which the Government be elect , but represent an unfunded tax cut from the opposition — have they learn nothing ? I therefore urge the House to reject those amendment , and I commend our amendment to the House . again , I extend my thank to all member who have contribute to this debate . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 2 - energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy : impact assessment of increase in rate " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act come into force , commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of section 15 to 17 of this Act on — ( a ) domestic energy production and investment ; ( b ) the UK ' s energy security ; ( c ) energy price , and ; ( d ) the UK economy . ( 2 ) the assessment must examine the impact of provision in this Act in comparison with what could have be expect have the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy remain unchanged . " — ( James Wild . ) this new clause would require the Chancellor to commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of change to the energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy on domestic energy production , the UK ' s energy security , energy price and the UK economy . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Llinos Medi Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Katie Lam Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 113 , Noes 331 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 8 - Review of section 63 and 64 " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act and every six month thereafter , review the impact of the measure contain in section 63 and 64 of this Act . ( 2 ) each review must consider the impact of the measure on — ( a ) Scotch whisky distillery , ( b ) small spirit distillery , ( c ) wine producer and wholesaler , ( d ) the hospitality industry , and ( e ) those operate in the night - time economy . ( 3 ) each review must include an estimate of administrative and operational cost for the precede 12 - month period for each of the sector list in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) each review must consider the impact of the measure on the retail price for consumer of product subject to alcohol duty . ( 5 ) each review must also examine the expect effect of the measure on the domestic wine trade . ( 6 ) a report set out the finding of each review must be publish and lay before both Houses of Parliament . " — ( Daisy Cooper . ) this new clause would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the measure on the Act on distillery , wine producer and the hospitality industry . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Susan Murray Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 176 , Noes 332 . question accordingly negative . clause 26 - Films and television programme : increase relief for visual effect Amendments make : 1 , page 17 , line 32 , leave out " the chapter 3 credit amount " and insert " the adjusted vfx portion of those credit " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 2 . amendment 2 , page 17 , line 35 , leave out from begin to end of line 27 on page 18 and insert — " ( 4 ) take the following step to determine the adjusted vfx portion of previously claim chapter 3 credit — Step 1 ( identify the total UK expenditure in the AVEC period ) determine the total amount of the company ' s relevant global expenditure ( see section 1179CA ( 2 ) ) that — ( a ) be UK expenditure ( see section 1179AB ) , and ( b ) be incur for accounting period fall within the company ' s AVEC period . step 2 ( identify the amount of visual effect expenditure ) determine how much of the result of Step 1 be relevant visual effect expenditure . step 3 ( determine the extent to which the 80 % cap apply ) determine the amount ( if any ) of the excess to be deduct at Step 3 in section 1179ca ( 1 ) for the most recent accounting period for which a claim for chapter 3 credit be make ( which may be the claim period ) . if that amount be nil go to Step 4 , otherwise go to Step 5 . step 4 ( where the 80 % cap do not apply , calculate the adjusted vfx portion ) if this Step apply , the adjusted vfx portion be the amount give by multiply — ( a ) the sum of chapter 3 credit claim by the production company , by ( b ) the amount give by divide the result of Step 2 by the result of Step 1 . step 5 ( treat the 80 % cap as affect the VFX portion first ) subtract the result of Step 3 from the result of Step 2 . if the result be nil or less , the adjusted vfx portion be nil . if not , go to Step 6 . step 6 ( calculate the adjusted vfx portion , take account of the 80 % cap ) if this Step apply , the adjusted vfx portion be the amount give by multiply the result of Step 5 by 0 . 34 . " this amendment clarify , and correct , the calculation of the relief . amendment 3 , page 18 , line 32 , leave out " remainder " and insert " result of Step 5 in that subsection " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 2 . amendment 4 , page 18 , line 36 , at end insert — " a company ' s " avec period " mean the period begin with the commencement of the first accounting period for which this Part apply far to the election by the company under section 1179B ( 1 ) and end with the end of the claim period ; " . — ( James Murray . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 2 . clause 37 - claim for relief on foreign income Amendments make : 5 , page 28 , line 17 , leave out " and " and insert " to " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . amendment 6 , page 29 , line 36 , at end insert — " 845CA Effect of claim , foreign employment election or foreign gain claim : cost of dwelling - relate loan ( 1 ) this section apply where an individual — ( a ) have a relievable amount for a tax year in respect of an overseas property business for the purpose of section 274a ( reduction for individual : entitlement ) , and ( b ) make a foreign income claim , a foreign employment election or a foreign gain claim for the tax year . ( 2 ) the individual be not entitle to relief under section 274a for that tax year in respect of that relievable amount . ( 3 ) for the purpose of section 274a , the individual ' s bring - forward amount for the follow tax year in respect of the overseas property business be nil . " this amendment mean that an individual who make a foreign income claim , foreign employment election or foreign gain claim for a tax year be not entitle to relief under section 274a of ITTOIA 2005 for any relievable amount for that tax year in respect of an overseas property business . amendment 7 , page 30 , line 13 , at end insert — " 845DA Effect of claim on relief for contribution to register pension scheme ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where — ( a ) an individual make a foreign income claim for a tax year , ( b ) the individual be entitle to relief under section 188 of fa 2004 ( relief for contribution ) for that tax year , and ( c ) the maximum amount of relief to which the individual be entitle under that section for that tax year be great than the basic amount within the meaning of section 190 ( 4 ) of that Act . ( 2 ) the maximum amount of relief to which the individual be entitle under section 188 of that Act for that tax year be to be reduce by the lesser of — ( a ) the relevant amount , and ( b ) the amount that would reduce the maximum amount of relief to the basic amount . ( 3 ) the " relevant amount " be the amount of the relief to which the individual be entitle under section 845A ( 2 ) of this Act as a result of make the foreign income claim , so far as that amount reflect relevant qualify foreign income . ( 4 ) an amount of qualify foreign income be " relevant qualify foreign income " if the income be relevant UK earning within the meaning of section 189 ( 2 ) of fa 2004 . " this amendment mean that where an individual have make a foreign income claim , any relief for contribution to register pension scheme to which the individual be entitle be reduce by the amount of the relief obtain as a result of the foreign income claim so far as the relief reflect income that be relevant UK earning ( but not below the basic amount ) . amendment 8 , page 34 , line 1 , leave out " section 38 " and insert " section 34 " . — ( James Murray . ) this amendment correct a cross - reference . clause 38 - claim for relief on foreign employment income Amendments make : 9 , page 36 , line 18 , leave out " and " and insert " to " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . amendment 10 , page 40 , line 17 , at end insert — " 41ra Effect of claim on relief for contribution to register pension scheme ( 1 ) this section apply where an individual who be an active member of a register pension scheme for the purpose of section 188 of fa 2004 ( relief for contribution ) make a foreign employment relief claim for a tax year . ( 2 ) for the purpose of section 189 ( 1 ) ( a ) and 190 of that Act , reference to the amount of the individual ' s relevant UK earning chargeable to income tax for that year be to be read as reference to that amount minus the relieved amount . ( 3 ) the " relieved amount " be the amount of the relief to which the individual be entitle under section 41p ( 2 ) of this Act as a result of make the foreign employment relief claim . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment mean that where an individual have make a foreign employment claim , any relief for contribution to register pension scheme to which the individual be entitle be reduce by the amount of relief obtain as a result of the foreign employment claim ( but not below the basic amount ) . clause 39 - claim for relief on foreign gain Amendments make : 11 , page 46 , line 1 , leave out " section 87 " and insert " section 87 and 89 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 12 . amendment 12 , page 46 , line 4 , after " 87 " insert " or 89 ( 2 ) " . this amendment secure that relief be available under the FIG regime for gain treat as accrue under section 89 ( 2 ) of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 ( migrating settlement ) . amendment 13 , page 46 , line 5 , leave out " non - resident " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 12 . amendment 14 , page 46 , line 15 , leave out " and 87a " and insert " , 87a and 89 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 12 . amendment 15 , page 46 , line 34 , leave out " and " and insert " to " . — ( James Murray . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . clause 40 - remittance basis not available after tax year 2024 - 25 Amendments make : 16 , page 49 , line 3 , leave out " subsection ( 5 ) " and insert " subsection ( 4A ) and ( 5 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . amendment 17 , page 49 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) paragraph 5a ( relief for amount remit again on become UK resident ) be to be treat as have always have effect . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . clause 47 - Removal of exemption for private school fee Amendment propose : 67 , page 53 , line 30 , leave out clause 47 . — ( James Wild . ) this amendment remove Clause 47 , which remove the vat exemption for private school fee . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Katie Lam Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 347 . question accordingly negative . schedule 3 - payment into decommissioning fund Amendments make : 18 , page 116 , line 30 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment remove a condition that be now not need as a result of the condition insert by Amendment 19 . amendment 19 , page 117 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and insert — " ( c ) the payment have be certify in an approval notice give under section 30a ( 5 ) ( b ) or 30B ( 3 ) ( b ) of that Act . " this amendment provide that a payment ( direct or indirect ) into a decommissioning fund must be certify by the Secretary of State in order for it to qualify as decommission expenditure . amendment 20 , page 117 , line 9 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , a payment to a licensed company under an agreement to pay a require amount for the purpose of payment into the decommissioning fund be to be regard as a payment into that fund . ( 3A ) but the onward payment into the fund by that licensed company be not a qualifying payment . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment clarify that an indirect payment into a decommissioning fund be capable of be a qualifying payment ( provide it meet the condition in paragraph 1 ( 2 ) of Schedule 3 to the Bill ) . schedule 9 - income tax and capital gain tax : remittance basis and domicile amendment make : 21 , page 214 , line 11 , leave out from " in " to end of line 13 and insert " property situate outside the United Kingdom become situate in the United Kingdom . " this amendment make it clear that the new section 809 ( 9A ) ( b ) of ITA 2007 only apply where the situs of exist intangible property change . amendment 22 , page 214 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 9B ) section 275 to 275C of TCGA 1992 ( location of asset ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 9A ) ( b ) as they apply for the purpose of TCGA 1992 . ( 9C ) but subsection ( 9B ) do not apply where the intangible property be a debt other than a judgment debt . " this amendment mean that the common law will determine where a debt ( other than a judgment debt ) be situate for the purpose of the new section 809L ( 9A ) ( b ) of the Income Tax Act 2007 . amendment 23 , page 215 , line 10 , after " to " insert " income tax or capital gain " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . amendment 24 , page 215 , line 10 , at end insert — " relief for amount remit again on become UK resident 5a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where — ( a ) income or chargeable gain of an individual have be remit to the United Kingdom during a period that exceed 5 year — ( i ) that end before 6 April 2024 , and ( ii ) in which there be no period for which the individual be UK resident , and ( b ) after the end of that period , but before 6 April 2025 — ( i ) the same , or part of the same , income or chargeable gain ( " the repeat remit amount " ) be again remit to the United Kingdom , and ( ii ) a relevant charge have arise in relation to that remittance . ( 2 ) a " relevant charge " in relation to a remittance mean — ( a ) income tax become chargeable on that remittance , or ( b ) a gain accrue under paragraph 1 ( 2 ) of Schedule 1 to TCGA 1992 on that remittance . ( 3 ) any relevant charge that have arise on the first occasion on which the repeat remit amount be remit in circumstance fall within sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) be to be treat as never have arise . ( 4 ) but a remittance that be not charge to income tax or capital gain tax as a result of sub - paragraph ( 3 ) be to be treat as if it be charge to income or capital gain tax ( as the case may be ) for the purpose of section 809P ( 12 ) of ITA 2007 . ( 5 ) this paragraph be to be treat as never have apply where — ( a ) for either , or each , of the tax year 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 , the individual be not UK resident , or ( b ) either , or each , of those tax year be a split year as respect the individual . ( 6 ) reference in this paragraph to amount be remit to the United Kingdom be to be construe in accordance with chapter A1 of Part 14 of ITA 2007 ( see , in particular , section 809L to 809O of that Act ) . " this amendment give relief to individual who have remit foreign income and gain during an extended period of non - residence , but remit they again on become UK resident before the end of tax year 2024 - 25 . Amendment 25 , page 215 , line 15 , at end insert — " transferable tax allowance for married couple etc 6a in section 55c of ITA 2007 ( election to reduce personal allowance ) , in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , for " domicile in the United Kingdom " substitute " not a qualify new resident " . " this amendment make an amendment to the Income Tax Act 2007 that be consequential on the ending of the relevance of domicile for income tax purpose and the introduction of relief for qualify new resident . amendment 26 , page 218 , leave out line 34 and 35 . this amendment omit the repeal of section 174 ( 6 ) ( a ) of the Finance Act 1993 because that provision have already be repeal by Schedule 41 of the Finance Act 1996 . Amendment 27 , page 219 , leave out line 2 to 29 and insert — " 23 ( 1 ) in section 22 of F ( no . 2 ) a 1931 ( Treasury power to issue security with a FOTRA condition ) , in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) for " neither domicile nor " substitute " not " . ( 2 ) in section 154 of fa 1996 ( FOTRA security ) , omit subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) any security issue with a FOTRA domicile condition be treat in relation to time on or after 6 April 2025 as if — ( a ) it be a security issue with the post - 1996 Act FOTRA condition ( and with no other FOTRA condition ) , and ( b ) the post - 1996 Act FOTRA condition have be authorise in relation to the issue of that security by virtue of section 22 of F ( no . 2 ) a 1931 . ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) — " a FOTRA condition " mean a condition about exemption from taxation authorise by section 22 of F ( no . 2 ) a 1931 ; " a FOTRA domicile condition " , in relation to a security , mean a FOTRA condition require the security to be in the beneficial ownership of person who be not domicile in the United Kingdom for an exemption from taxation to apply ; " the post - 1996 Act FOTRA condition " mean the FOTRA condition with which 7 . 25 % Treasury Stock 2007 be first issue . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment ensure that FOTRA security can not be issue with condition about tax exemption require any beneficial owner ( whether or not they be individual ) to be non - UK domicile . it also mean that any FOTRA security that be issue with such a condition will be treat as if they be not . schedule 10 - temporary repatriation facility amendment make : 28 , page 221 , line 14 , leave out " or " and insert " and " . this amendment correct a minor error ( incorrect conjunction ) . amendment 29 , page 222 , line 38 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . this amendment remove the possibility of designate foreign income and gain that be subject to section 279 of TCGA 1992 ( delay remittance ) or section 842 of ITTOIA 2005 ( unremittable income ) . amendment 30 , page 223 , line 11 , after " 87 " insert " and 89 tcga 1992 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 31 . amendment 31 , page 223 , line 12 , leave out paragraph 3 and insert — " 3 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 or 2027 - 28 in relation to an individual if — ( a ) chargeable gain be treat as accrue to the individual in that tax year as a result of section 87 ( 2 ) or 89 ( 2 ) of TCGA 1992 in relation to a capital payment from the trustee of a settlement for which the individual be a beneficiary , and ( b ) the settlement have a section 1 ( 3 ) amount that be great than nil for one or more tax year before 2025 - 26 . ( 2 ) so much of the payment as be match with section 1 ( 3 ) amount for tax year before 2025 - 26 be qualify overseas capital . ( 3 ) for the purpose of match those amount , apply section 87a of TCGA 1992 as if — ( a ) the section 1 ( 3 ) amount for each tax year after the tax year 2024 - 25 be nil , and ( b ) the reference in Step 2 in subsection ( 2 ) of section 87a of that Act to the total amount of capital payment receive by the beneficiary be to the total amount of capital payment — ( i ) receive by the individual and other beneficiary that be qualify individual for the relevant tax year , and ( ii ) to which section 87 ( 2 ) or 89 ( 2 ) of that Act apply . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this paragraph , ignore any reduction of a section 1 ( 3 ) amount for the tax year 2024 - 25 or an early tax year result from the application of section 87 or 89 ( 2 ) of TCGA 1992 in the tax year 2025 - 26 or any subsequent tax year . ( 5 ) sub - paragraph ( 6 ) apply where — ( a ) an amount of a capital payment have be match with a section 1 ( 3 ) amount under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , and ( b ) that amount be designate as designate qualify overseas capital . ( 6 ) the section 1 ( 3 ) amount be to be take to have be reduce ( but not below nil ) by so much of it as match with the capital payment for the purpose of any subsequent application of this paragraph . ( 7 ) this paragraph be not to be take as affect the application of section 87a of TCGA 1992 for any purpose other than for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 3A and 4 ( and no section 1 ( 3 ) amount or capital payment be to be take to have be reduce as a result of the application of this paragraph for any other purpose ) . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) " section 1 ( 3 ) amount " have the meaning be have in section 87 of TCGA 1992 , and ( b ) section 97 of TCGA 1992 ( supplementary provision ) apply as it apply for the purpose of section 86A to 96 of that Act . ( 9 ) for the purpose of this paragraph , and paragraph 3A and 4 , an individual be a qualify individual in a tax year if the individual — ( a ) be UK resident for the purpose of income tax and capital gain tax for that tax year , and ( b ) be subject to the remittance basis for at least one tax year ( be a tax year before the tax year 2025 - 26 ) . " this amendment extend the previous paragraph 3 of Schedule 10 ( temporary repatriation facility ) to migrant settlement and secure that the calculation of qualify overseas capital work as intend . Amendment 32 , page 223 , line 32 , at end insert — " capital payment make by settlement : offshore income gain case 3A ( 1 ) this paragraph apply for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 or 2027 - 28 in relation to an individual if — ( a ) chargeable gain be treat as accrue to the individual in that tax year as a result of section 87 ( 2 ) of TCGA 1992 , as it apply in relation to OIG amount as a result of regulation 20 of the OFT Regulations , in relation to a capital payment from the trustee of a settlement for which the individual be a beneficiary , and ( b ) the settlement have an OIG amount that be great than nil for one or more tax year before 2025 - 26 . ( 2 ) so much of the payment as be match with OIG amount for tax year before 2025 - 26 be qualify overseas capital . ( 3 ) for the purpose of match those amount , apply section 87a of TCGA 1992 as if — ( a ) the OIG amount for each tax year after the tax year 2024 - 25 be nil , and ( b ) the reference in Step 2 in subsection ( 2 ) of 87a of that Act to the total amount of capital payment receive by the beneficiary be to the total amount of capital payment — ( i ) receive by the individual and other beneficiary that be qualify individual for the relevant tax year , and ( ii ) to which section 87 ( 2 ) of that Act apply in relation to OIG amount ( as a result of regulation 20 of the OFT regulation ) . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this paragraph , ignore any reduction of an OIG amount for the tax year 2024 - 25 or an early tax year result from the application of section 87 or 89 ( 2 ) of TCGA 1992 in the tax year 2025 - 26 or any subsequent tax year . ( 5 ) sub - paragraph ( 6 ) apply where — ( a ) an amount of a capital payment have be match with an OIG amount under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , and ( b ) that amount be designate as designate qualify overseas capital . ( 6 ) the OIG amount be to be take to have be reduce ( but not below nil ) by so much of it as match with the capital payment for the purpose of any subsequent application of this paragraph . ( 7 ) this paragraph be not to be take as affect the application of section 87a of TCGA 1992 for any purpose other than for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 3 and 4 ( and no OIG amount or capital payment be to be take to have be reduce as a result of the application of this paragraph for any other purpose ) . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) the " OFT Regulations " mean the Offshore Funds ( Tax ) Regulations 2009 , ( b ) " OIG amount " be to be construe in accordance with the OFT Regulations , and ( c ) section 97 of TCGA 1992 ( supplementary provision ) apply as it apply for the purpose of section 86A to 96 of that Act . " this amendment apply the same treatment under paragraph 3 of Schedule 10 ( temporary repatriation facility ) in relation to offshore income gain ( see regulation 20 of the Offshore Funds ( Tax ) Regulations 2009 ) . amendment 33 , page 223 , line 34 , leave out paragraph 4 and insert — " 4 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply for the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 or 2027 - 28 in relation to an individual if — ( a ) chargeable gain be treat as accrue to the individual in that tax year as a result of paragraph 8 ( 1 ) of Schedule 4c to TCGA 1992 in relation to a capital payment from the trustee of a relevant settlement for which the individual be a beneficiary , and ( b ) the section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool be great than nil for one or more tax year before 2025 - 26 . ( 2 ) so much of the payment as be match with section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool for tax year before 2025 - 26 be qualify overseas capital . ( 3 ) for the purpose of match those amount , apply section 87a of TCGA 1992 as if — ( a ) the section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool for each tax year after the tax year 2024 - 25 be nil , and ( b ) the reference in Step 2 in subsection ( 2 ) of section 87a of that Act to the total amount of capital payment receive by the beneficiary be to the total amount of capital payment — ( i ) receive by the individual and other beneficiary that be qualify individual for the relevant tax year , and ( ii ) to which paragraph 8 ( 1 ) of Schedule 4C to that Act apply in relation to section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this paragraph , ignore any reduction of a section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool for the tax year 2024 - 25 or an early tax year result from the application of paragraph 8 ( 1 ) of Schedule 4c to TCGA 1992 in the tax year 2025 - 26 or any subsequent tax year . ( 5 ) sub - paragraph ( 6 ) apply where — ( a ) an amount of a capital payment have be match with a section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , and ( b ) that amount be designate as designate qualify overseas capital . ( 6 ) the section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool be to be take to have be reduce ( but not below nil ) by so much of it as match with the capital payment for the purpose of any subsequent application of this paragraph . ( 7 ) this paragraph be not to be take as affect the application of section 87a of TCGA 1992 for any purpose other than for the purpose of this paragraph and paragraph 3 and 3A ( and no section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool or capital payment be to be take to have be reduce as a result of the application of this paragraph for any other purpose ) . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this paragraph — ( a ) " section 1 ( 3 ) amount in the Schedule 4c pool " and " relevant settlement " be to be construe in accordance with schedule 4c to TCGA 1992 , and ( b ) section 97 of TCGA 1992 ( supplementary provision ) apply as it apply for the purpose of section 86A to 96 of that Act . " this amendment replace paragraph 4 of Schedule 10 ( temporary repatriation facility ) in order to make it more consistent with paragraph 3 as amend by Amendment 31 . Amendment 34 , page 225 , line 2 , at end insert — " deem income under section 732 of ITA 2007 where pre - 2025 gain available for match 5 ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) apply where — ( a ) an individual be treat as have an amount of income for any of the tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 or 2027 - 28 as a result of section 732 of ITA 2007 ( individual receive a benefit as a result of relevant transaction ) , ( b ) the amount of income do not fall within paragraph 5 ( 1 ) ( c ) , and ( c ) the benefit by reference to which that income be treat as arise would , if it be not chargeable to income tax , be an amount of qualify overseas capital of the individual by virtue of paragraph 3 or 4 ( capital payment ) . ( 2 ) the amount be to be treat as an amount of qualify overseas capital of the individual . ( 3 ) the amount may only be designate in a return for the tax year in which the income be treat as arise to the individual . " this amendment allow income treat as arise in tax year 2025 - 26 to 2027 - 28 under section 732 of ITA 2007 to be match against pre 2025 - 26 settlement gain . amendment 35 , page 226 , line 26 , at end insert " and relief " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 36 . amendment 36 , page 226 , line 29 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) no liability to income tax arise on an amount of income treat as qualify overseas capital under paragraph 5 if the amount be designate . ( 2A ) but such an amount be to be treat for the purpose of section 97 ( 1 ) of TCGA 1992 ( capital payment not to include amount chargeable to income tax ) as if it be chargeable to income tax . ( 2b ) no liability to income tax arise on an amount of income treat as qualify overseas capital under paragraph 5a if the amount be designate . ( 2C ) accordingly the amount — ( a ) will be a capital payment for the purpose of section 86A to 96 of , and schedule 4C to , TCGA 1992 ( see section 97 ( 1 ) of that Act ) , and ( b ) will , as a result of paragraph 3 or 4 ( or both ) , be qualify overseas capital . ( 2D ) any such qualify overseas capital be to be treat as have be designate by the individual ( under that paragraph or those paragraph ) , but no liability to the TRF charge be to arise as a result of that deem designation . ( 2E ) sub - paragraph ( 2F ) apply where — ( a ) offshore income gain , within the meaning of the Offshore Funds ( Tax ) Regulations 2009 , be treat as accrue to an individual in a tax year under section 87 ( 2 ) of TCGA 1992 ( as apply by regulation 20 of those regulation ) as a result of a capital payment make to an individual , and ( b ) an amount of that capital payment be qualify overseas capital that have be designate by the individual . ( 2f ) the offshore income gain be to be reduce by the amount of that designate qualify overseas capital . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 34 and 32 . amendment 37 , page 226 , line 32 , at end insert — " income tax exemption : application of transfer of asset abroad rule in future year 8a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where an amount of income that be treat as arise to an individual under section 732 of ITA 2007 ( " the deemed income " ) be exempt from income tax by virtue of paragraph 8 . ( 2 ) if the deem income be qualify overseas capital by virtue of paragraph 5 ( 1 ) ( c ) , chapter 2 of Part 13 of ITA 2007 have effect as though the deemed income have be charge to tax under section 731 of that Act . ( 3 ) accordingly — ( a ) in the application of section 733 ( 1 ) of ITA 2007 to the individual for subsequent tax year , the amount of the deemed income will be deduct at Step 2 and at paragraph ( a ) of Step 5 , and ( b ) in the application of section 733 ( 1 ) of ITA 2007 to any other individual for subsequent tax year , the amount of the deemed income will be deduct at paragraph ( b ) of Step 5 . ( 4 ) if the deem income be qualify overseas capital by virtue of paragraph 5a , chapter 2 of Part 13 of ITA 2007 have effect as though the benefit by reference to which the deemed income be treat as arise have never be provide . ( 5 ) accordingly , in the application of section 733 ( 1 ) of ITA 2007 to any individual for subsequent tax year — ( a ) that benefit will not be take into account at Step 1 , ( b ) no deduction in respect of the deemed income will be make at Step 2 or Step 5 , and ( c ) the total untaxed benefit will not be reduce in respect of that benefit by virtue of section 734 ( previous capital gain charge ) . " this amendment set out how the transfer of asset abroad rule will apply for future tax year if deem income under those rule be exempt from tax under the TRF . amendment 38 , page 227 , line 4 , after " 87 ( 2 ) " insert " or 89 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 31 . amendment 39 , page 227 , line 7 , after " individual " insert " under paragraph 3 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 32 . amendment 40 , page 227 , line 23 , leave out " paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( c ) " and insert " paragraph 3 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 31 . amendment 41 , page 227 , line 28 , leave out " paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( c ) " and insert " paragraph 3 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 31 . amendment 42 , page 227 , line 36 , after " individual " insert " under paragraph 4 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 33 . amendment 43 , page 228 , line 11 , leave out " paragraph 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) " and insert " paragraph 4 ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 33 . amendment 44 , page 228 , line 17 , leave out " paragraph 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) " and insert " paragraph 4 ( 2 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 33 . amendment 45 , page 228 , line 29 , leave out from " individual " to end of line 30 and insert " if — " . this amendment and Amendment 46 secure that the temporary relaxation of the nominate income and gain ordering rule do not apply where those rule have previously operate in relation to a taxpayer . Amendment 46 , page 228 , line 31 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) the tax year be tax year 2025 - 26 , 2026 - 27 or 2027 - 28 , ( b ) the individual — ( i ) make a designation of qualify overseas capital for that tax year , or ( ii ) the individual have make such a designation for a previous tax year , and ( c ) that section have not apply in relation to that individual for the tax year 2024 - 25 or an early tax year . " this amendment and Amendment 45 secure that the temporary relaxation of the nominate income and gain ordering rule do not apply where those rule have previously operate in relation to a taxpayer . Amendment 47 , page 234 , line 13 , leave out " at a relevant time " . this amendment remove some unnecessary word . amendment 48 , page 234 , line 18 , leave out " at a relevant time " . this amendment remove some unnecessary word . amendment 49 , page 239 , line 37 , at end insert — " no tax credit for pre 2016 - 17 dividend etc 16a Sections 397 to 398 of ITTOIA 2005 ( which have be repeal and only have effect in relation to distribution make before tax year 2016 - 17 ) do not apply in relation to any amount of designate qualify overseas capital . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment prevent tax credit be claim under the dividend etc tax credit regime repeal from tax year 2016 - 17 , where a distribution ( make before that tax year ) be designate as qualify overseas capital . schedule 12 - Trusts : connect amendment , transitional provision etc amendment make : 50 , page 253 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 2b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , if in a tax year — ( a ) income be treat as arise to an individual under section 732 ( 2 ) , and ( b ) the income be identify as qualify foreign income on a foreign income claim , the income be treat for late tax year as not have be charge to income tax under section 731 . ( 2C ) it follow from subsection ( 2B ) that — ( a ) in the application of subsection ( 1 ) to the individual for subsequent tax year , the amount of the income will be deduct at Step 2 and at paragraph ( a ) of Step 5 , but ( b ) in the application of subsection ( 1 ) to any other individual for subsequent tax year , the amount of the income will not be deduct at paragraph ( b ) of Step 5 . ( 2D ) see paragraph 8a of Schedule 10 to fa 2025 ( temporary repatriation facility ) for special provision about income that be treat as arise under section 732 but that be exempt from income tax under that schedule . " this amendment ensure that , if a beneficiary obtain qualify new resident relief in respect of a tax charge under the transfer of asset abroad rule , the pool of relevant income by reference to which other beneficiary be tax be not artificially deplete . Amendment 51 , page 260 , line 16 , leave out paragraph 49 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 37 , which make equivalent ( and more detailed ) provision in Schedule 10 . amendment 52 , page 260 , line 31 , leave out " ( 2A ) ( a ) , omit " , 87 K , 87l " " and insert " ( 2A ) , omit paragraph ( a ) " . this amendment be consequential on paragraph 54 of Schedule 12 . amendment 53 , page 264 , line 7 , leave out " ( 7 ) ( b ) , omit " , 87 K , 87l " " and insert " ( 7 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) ( but not the " and " after it ) " . this amendment be consequential on paragraph 54 of Schedule 12 . amendment 54 , page 264 , line 8 , leave out " ( 6 ) ( c ) , omit " , 87 K , 87l " " and insert " ( 6 ) — ( a ) after paragraph ( a ) insert " and " ; ( b ) omit paragraph ( c ) and the " and " before it . " this amendment be consequential on paragraph 54 of Schedule 12 . Amendment 55 , page 265 , line 27 , leave out paragraph 71 and insert — " 71 ( 1 ) the amendment make by paragraph 1 to 54 , 56 to 65 and 68 to 70 have effect for the tax year 2025 - 26 and subsequent tax year . ( 2 ) the amendment make by paragraph 55 to section 62 of TCGA 1992 ( death : general provision ) have effect in relation to death occur on or after 6 April 2025 . ( 3 ) the amendment make by paragraph 66 and 67 to section 279A and 279c of TCGA 1992 ( defer unascertainable consideration : election for treatment of loss ) have effect in relation to disposal make on or after 6 April 2025 of right to which section 279A of that Act apply . " — ( James Murray . ) this amendment bring the commencement provision for Schedule 12 into line with the other income - tax - and capital - gain - tax - relate provision in the Bill about residence and domicile . schedule 13 - Inheritance tax Amendments make : 56 , page 268 , line 19 , leave out " at all time on and after 30 October 2024 and before the time when " and insert " immediately before " . this amendment relax the test for determine whether the exemption for exist exclude property trust in new section 53 ( 4A ) of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 apply . it provide that the property only need to be invest offshore ( or in an AUT or OEIC ) immediately before the person ' s interest come to an end ( as oppose to at all time after 30 October 2024 ) . amendment 57 , page 269 , line 1 , leave out " at all time on and after 30 October 2024 and " and insert " immediately " . this amendment relax the test for determine whether the exemption for exist exclude property trust in new section 54 ( 2C ) of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 apply . it provide that the property only need to be invest offshore ( or in an AUT or OEIC ) immediately before the person ' s death ( as oppose to at all time after 30 October 2024 ) . amendment 58 , page 275 , line 4 , at end insert — " 267ZF double taxation convention operate by reference to deem domicile ( 1 ) this section apply to a case in which the application of any arrangement have effect under section 158 ( double taxation convention ) depend ( to any extent ) on whether a person be treat as domicile in the United Kingdom for the purpose of inheritance tax . ( 2 ) the person be treat as domicile in the United Kingdom for the purpose of inheritance tax if they be a long - term UK resident . ( 3 ) Sections 276ZC to 267ZE ( person treat as long - term resident by virtue of election ) be to be disregard in apply this section in relation to any arrangement that be specify in an order in Council make under section 158 of IHTA 1984 before 17 July 2013 ( other than by way of amendment by an order make on or after that date ) . ( 4 ) nothing in this section affect the interpretation of any such arrangement as be mention in section 158 ( 6 ) ( certain pre - 1975 arrangement ) . " this amendment provide that , where existing double taxation arrangement operate by reference to whether the UK treat a person as domicile in the UK for the purpose of inheritance tax , the person be treat as so domicile if they be a long - term UK resident . it do not affect pre - 1975 arrangement and , in relation to pre - 2013 arrangement , provide for certain election to be disregard . amendment 59 , page 276 , line 13 , leave out " gift " and insert " disposal and remain settle property at all time after the disposal and before the relevant time " . this amendment clarify the exemption from the gift with reservation rule for exist exclude property trust . it ensure that the exemption only apply where the property have remain in the trust throughout . amendment 60 , page 276 , line 17 , leave out " at all time on and after 30 October 2024 and " and insert " immediately " . this amendment relax the test for determine whether the exemption from the gift with reservation rule for exist exclude property trust apply . it provide that the property only need to be invest offshore ( or in an AUT or OEIC ) immediately before the relevant time ( as oppose to at all time after 30 October 2024 ) . amendment 61 , page 276 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 7C ) in subsection ( 7a ) ( c ) , " for the purpose of the 1984 Act " include for the purpose only of chapter 3 of Part 3 of that Act ( ten - year anniversary charge etc ) because of the operation of section 81 of that Act ( property move between settlement ) . " this amendment ensure that the exemption from the gift with reservation rule for exist exclude property trust apply to property which be exclude property only under the relevant property rule in the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 , because it be treat as comprise in a different settlement from that in which it be in fact comprise . amendment 62 , page 279 , line 22 , leave out " not be resident in the United Kingdom for any tax year " and insert " be resident in the United Kingdom for no tax year " . this amendment be minor and technical and clarify an ambiguity . amendment 63 , page 279 , line 26 , leave out " not resident in the United Kingdom for any " and insert " resident in the United Kingdom for none " . this amendment be minor and technical and clarify an ambiguity . Amendment 64 , page 279 , line 28 , leave out " not resident in the United Kingdom for more than 14 " and insert " resident in the United Kingdom for few than 15 " . this amendment be minor and technical and clarify an ambiguity . amendment 65 , page 280 , line 12 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 58 . amendment 66 , page 280 , line 19 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 3 ) . — ( James Murray . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 58 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . at the autumn Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor lay the essential foundation for boost investment and growth to put more money in people ' s pocket , the no . 1 mission of the Government under the Prime Minister ' s plan for change . the Budget be build on robust fiscal rule , rule that put a stop to day - to - day spending be fund through borrowing and to get net financial debt fall as a share of gdp . the Finance Bill deliver on our manifesto commitment by remove the outdated concept of domicile status from the tax system , increase the capital gain tax rate for carry interest , increase the high rate of stamp duty for additional dwelling , introduce the 20 % standard rate of vat on private school fee , and change the energy profit levy by extend the period over which it apply and adjust its rate by 3 percentage point . as we know , my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out at Budget how the fiscal inheritance be far bad than we have expect . the Opposition , when in government , let public spending plan become unsustainable . they do not share this with the OBR or the british people . it fall to we to fix that mess when we take office . that be why we have to make an increase to capital gain tax , change to inheritance tax threshold and a plan to close the tax gap by a record package of £ 6 . 5 billion of additional tax revenue by the end of the Parliament . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for their often helpful and insightful contribution to the debate during the Bill ' s passage . I would like to thank official at the Treasury and in Parliament for their work on the policy and the legislation that have lead to the Bill whose consideration we be now conclude . the Bill play a key role in deliver economic stability , repair the public finance and lay the essential foundation for growth . it be through that growth that we will put more money into the pocket of people across Britain , and I commend it to the House . I join the Minister in thank hon . member on both side of the House who participate in the debate we have have so far on the Bill , which I do not intend to extend unduly . I join he in thank the parliamentary staff and the hon . member who chair the Committee . the drive mission of the Government , accord to the Prime Minister , be growth , but despite inherit the fast grow economy in the G7 , he and the Chancellor choose to talk down our economy . the impact of their word be to weaken confidence . then , in the October Budget , the Government make choice and put in place a raft of measure in this and other Bills that have stop growth stone dead : £ 40 billion a year of extra taxis ; high national insurance ; increase tax on investor ; deter the risk taker and the wealth creator we need ; push up inflation ; and hit work people and pensioner . in just the last two day , senior business leader from the retail and hospitality sector have warn about the damage the Budget and Labour ' s costly employment law will have . they be just the late business sound the alarm , but the Chancellor be not listen . for all the talk of growth , we can already see from their action that we have a government commit to high taxis , high spending , more borrowing and more regulation — the classic labour approach . it do not work . the Government need to change course , otherwise we will all pay the price . that be why we will not be support the Bill this evening . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Katie Lam Gregory Stafford the House divide : Ayes 339 , Noes 172 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Insurance that the draft Flood Reinsurance ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft safeguard Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 ( Amendment ) ( Provision of Information ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 January , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation ( Committees ) Financial Assistance to Industry Ordered , that the Motion in the name of Secretary Peter Kyle relate to Financial Assistance to Industry shall be treat as if it relate to an instrument subject to the provision of Standing Order no . 118 ( Delegated Legislation Committees ) in respect of which notice have be give that the instrument be approve . — ( Lucy Powell . ) standard order , that Mark Ferguson be discharge from the Committee on Standards and Michael Wheeler be add . — ( Mark Tami . ) Privileges order , that Mark Ferguson be discharge from the Committee of Privileges and Michael Wheeler be add . — ( Mark Tami . ) Backbench Business Ordered , that Jack Abbott be discharge from the Backbench Business Committee and Jonathan Davies be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Environmental Audit Ordered , that Alison Griffiths be a member of the Environmental Audit Committee . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition order , that David Baines be discharge from the Petitions Committee and Jacob Collier be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Statutory Instruments ( Joint Committee ) order , that Mark Ferguson and Claire Hughes be discharge from the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments and Rachel Blake and David Pinto - Duschinsky be add . — ( Mark Tami , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition Petition - Potential closure of Newton Ferrers Pharmacy 8 . 30 pm far to a similar online petition that be approach 1 , 000 signature , I present this petition of over 100 constituent from Newton Ferrers and Noss Mayo who rely on Newton Ferrers pharmacy , which be own and run by Esi Kumurdzi . my constituent be deeply concerned about the future of this vital pharmacy , which be under threat due to soar cost and the out - of - date NHS contract . the petition state : the petition of resident of South West Devon , declare that the potential closure of Newton Ferrers Pharmacy be cause significant concern for the local community ; far declare that the pressure place on local pharmacy include inadequate funding , rise operating cost , the difficulty in recruit and retain community pharmacist , and the recent rise in National Insurance rate for employer , which be expect to cost pharmacy an additional £ 50 million ; further note that these closure have lead to increase pressure on GP surgery and hospital , as patient be force to seek alternative care option ; and acknowledge that the vital role that community pharmacy play in provide accessible , convenient , and cost - effective healthcare to local population should be recognise in the renegotiated Community Pharmacy Contractual Framework . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to address the challenge face community pharmacy , include assess the adequacy of funding in this area , provide support to reduce operating cost , address the impact of National Insurance rise , and improve workforce retention strategy in the lead - up to the renegotiation of the Community Pharmacy Contractual Framework . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003048 ] Church of England : safeguard Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I declare my role as a member of the Ecclesiastical Committee . I be grateful that we have be grant this opportunity to discuss a serious matter of importance to our constituent , to the Church of England , and most importantly to the victim and survivor of abuse . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who be here on behalf of their constituent . as a Member of Parliament and a Christian who believe in the Church and the positive , powerful role it play in our community , I believe that the story of survivor and their call for change must be hear , both here today and by the General Synod of the Church of England . for those in the Chamber , in the Gallery and at home , it be important to note that this debate may include difficult matter . I trust that it will be a measured debate . this be a sensitive topic , and I know that member on both side will want to advance the interest of those who have suffer abuse within the Church . my constituent Dame Jasvinder Sanghera will be know to member across the House for her campaign on abuse of many kind . she serve as the survivor advocate on the Church of England ' s independent safeguarding board . in this role , she work closely with survivor , some of whom join we today . my team and I have work with she since my election last year . along with her colleague Steve Reeves , she have advocate for survivor by escalate their case for review , challenge process and push for justice . I commend she and her work . in preparation for this debate , I meet member of the group of survivor involve with the independent safeguarding board sample case — they call themselves the ISB 11 . I have hear story that I will never forget . what strike I most be that they see themselves as survivor not only of the initial abuse they receive but of the Church ' s safeguarding process — one that have force these brave and courageous people , who have stand up to power , to re - live , lengthen and even amplify the abuse they have receive . I thank my hon . friend for the way he be set out this debate . do he agree that independent safeguarding be paramount ? as he say , survivor of abuse have have to re - live it over and over . this be an establishment where they should have feel safest . I could not agree more ; that be the crux of my speech . it be essential that the victim and survivor be hear . I be grateful to the Minister and the Second Church Estates Commissioner , both of whom be leader on these matter , for be here to hear the story and to respond . the story include that of Mr X , who be the first and only survivor to have an ISB case review publish . throughout his life , Mr X have seek justice after he be abuse by three individual in the Church . he end up have his business and livelihood destroy by civil litigation and he be yet to see justice . another survivor tell I of an ongoing , decade - long fight for justice . West Midlands police comment on the case : " it doesn ' t normally take 20 year for a complaint to be investigate " . another survivor , a woman who wish to remain anonymous , tell I that she now have a heart monitor because of her severe panic attack . she tell I : " the priest that abuse I still live in my area . the community have ostracise I and I be now housebound , I want the truth to come out . Jas and Steve have support I the good they can , at one point we talk every week . if they have not be there I think I would have take my life . " another survivor tell I that he feel that previous recommendation have fall on deaf ear , with step to protect perpetrator rather than to support victim . perhaps most harrowingly of all , one of the ISB 11 , who be just over 18 year old , have initially suffer abuse at the age of eight , be still fight for justice . at such a young age , he have already be wait over half his life to see justice . I have no doubt that many member across this House will have hear similar story . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate and for set out what have happen in such measured term . Mr X be a constituent of mine . I speak to he this afternoon , and he describe to I the catalogue of betrayal that he have be subject to from the age of 12 until now at the age of 56 , initially through the abuse and then through subsequent failing by the Church of England . I thank my constituent for retell his story to I ; it be the 28th time that he have have to re - tell the story to a stranger . I thank he for stick his neck out to try to get change . he tell I that he have lose the ability to walk away from this . do the hon . Member agree that it be only through meaningful accountability from the Church of England that he will get justice ? I absolutely agree . hear Mr X ' s case and read the report that be publish show the stark experience that he go through . he be one of the ISB 11 , but there be many other . they all must seek justice . I commend the hon . Gentleman , who I speak to beforehand , for secure the debate . I , like other , seek some level of legal process , whatever that may be . do he agree that the Church of England and all charitable body must be subject to the law of the land in exactly the same manner , whether religious or non - religious ? those work with vulnerable adult or child should have training and background search , whether they be in a church hall or a local community hall . safeguarding have to be of the same standard across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . justice be what we be after . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . his point remind I of a line from the second report by Alexis Jay ; I speak to she at the weekend and she reiterate this to I . it say that that the " Church safeguarding service fall below the standard for consistency expect and set in secular organisation " , whether those be local authority or anything else . my hon . friend be make a powerful case . he be right that many constituency have be affect . member will have constituent who have suffer abuse in a place where they should have feel very safe . it be the same for the constituent who contact I : he participate in football activity and experienced abuse as a young child that have affect the whole of his life . his mental health have be shred . there have be a lack of accountability , a lack of seriousness and slow pace from the Church of England when it come to take such case seriously and give people the justice they feel be necessary . the Church just do not seem to be catch up with the expectation of modern society and the safeguarding that happen in every other institution and organisation that work with young people and vulnerable people . do my hon . friend agree that the Church really have to pull its sock up and get its act together if it be to restore the faith that this country should have in this most honour of institution ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , who be a real champion for her constituent and all her constituent . sadly , the case that she have outline be all too familiar and like many other case across the country . we owe it to the survivor and other who have endure physical , emotional and spiritual abuse to highlight the serious shortcoming in the Church ' s safeguard structure . too often , while instance of abuse may have last moment , the Church ' s process for investigate and review these case have be painfully slow , frustrated and needlessly complex . it can not be right that the system intend to support survivor often far traumatise they . I , too , have be tell story of those who tragically have take their own life in the view that their perpetrator will never face justice . survivor tell I of feel trap in a seemingly endless cycle of uncertainty and distress . one tell I that they will not feel fully comfortable while this issue be " keep within the wall of the Church . " I appreciate my hon . friend ' s effort in get the debate hold . I have previously raise in the House the possibility of hold the Church of England accountable to the public through be subject to the stricture of the Freedom of Information Act . I be advise that that be unsuitable because it be technically not a public body , and yet it be an institution and part of the fabric of this country . it be unconscionable for people who use and revere this institution to find that they be not safe in it , that instead it protect its own — it protect perpetrator — and that the people right at the top use the excuse of legal construction or institutional formation to justify not pursue these situation . do my hon . friend agree that as legislator we must argue for great transparency in the Church of England , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) say about other public body ? rise — order . before the hon . member get back to his foot , I should say that , although I can see that this be a serious and important debate , intervention must be short . I completely agree with my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , who have have a long career hold powerful people to account in many different way . as she outline , this be a case of an institution for which it be difficult to get accountability and transparency . I be glad that we have this forum to discuss these issue , but Parliament itself be quite limited in how it can hold the Church to account . I sit on the Ecclesiastical Committee , which have to wait for measure to come forward from the Synod to be approve . there be some discussion as to whether that Committee ought to have great power to hold the Church to account , but the broad point be the same as the one I make early , which be that the Church fall below the standard require of other organisation . I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring forward this debate and for the way in which he be do so . do he agree that the technical nuance that cause the Church of England to go for option 3 rather than option 4 could be overcome by formulate a process of accountability around the safeguard structure within the Church of England , to ensure that any provider of such service have a strong line of communication in order to hear what be need in place such as York , where we have a cathedral , which I understand be where some of the challenge be come from ? I agree with my hon . friend . various issue be raise at Synod , and one of they be around the Charity Commission . I have discuss this precise issue with Professor Jay , and it be her view that there be nothing in this that can not be resolve . I understand that the Charity Commission be take a direct interest in safeguard at the moment , and I hope that an arrangement can be make on that , but the point that my hon . friend make be right . there be too many blocker , culturally and in term of technical detail , but what the Church need to do be move forward with pace and make sure that victim and survivor see justice . it be our responsibility in this House to do all we can to urge the Church to act so that these failure be address , survivor ' voice be hear and meaningful , sensible and effective reform be implement . we touch on one of the main reform early , and I will come to that in a moment , but before I do , let I be clear that I have the utmost respect for local clergy up and down the country who be do so much work within our community . I also respect the laity and all the volunteer who be do good work to keep people safe , include the church warden and the local parish safeguard officer . they too be let down by systemic failure and many of they be cry out for change . in fact , it be my understanding that the sample carry out by the Church ' s response group to the Jay report find that not only survivor , but the majority of local clergy support the recommendation . I also wish to recognise the work of many member of the General Synod , and in particular Clive Billenness , a lay member of the Synod who represent the Diocese in Europe and be a powerful ally of victim and survivor . he sadly pass away just last month , and I know that survivor truly value his effort and contribution to their cause . I also recognise the work of my own constituent , Father Adam Gaunt of Loftus , who have help I to understand the structure of Synod and be work on the abuse redress scheme as well . the hon . Gentleman be make a powerful speech . speak as a member of the Church of England and someone who have serve on parochial church council and as a church warden , I recognise how important it be that we move forward . he mention move forward a moment ago , but in order to do that , be it not necessary for the leadership of the Church to take a lead on this ? I say this with the Second Church Estates Commissioner , the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) listen to the debate . surely the soon we have a new Archbishop of Canterbury who can lead the Church and hopefully provide dynamic leadership for that institution , the well . only then can the Church of England move forward . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . the Church have be make various decision on this , but it have not be move forward with the require pace . my intention in bring forward this debate be to shine a light on that and urge it to act with pace . I thank he for make that point . I have list various individual and group within the Church , and my intention in this debate be not to diminish or tarnish any of their contribution but to highlight how process have not function and how survivor have be let down , and what we can do as a House to encourage the Church to implement well structure . the journey of safeguard reform in the Church be long and complex . it run from the Clergy Discipline Measure 2003 through the past case review in the 2000 , the Chichester visitation in 2012 , the establishment of the national safeguard panel and national safeguarding team in 2014 and 2015 , the Stobart review in 2018 , the Social Care Institute for Excellence report in 2019 , the Chichester / Peter Ball investigation in 2019 , the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse — IICSA — by Professor Jay , the Elliott report in 2020 , the Wilkinson report in 2023 and the further Alexis Jay report in 2024 to the recent Makin report , among other . we have have plenty of report , but while some improvement have be make , there remain " systemic underlying vulnerability " arise from the Church ' s safeguard structure . survivor have tell I that there be complex , hard - to - navigate structure and slow , institutionally defensive response . around 2020 , call for an independent structure to oversee safeguard practice emerge . the Archbishops ' Council debate what that should look like — whether to create a fully independent body or to establish a board for the oversight of safeguarding , which would develop further independence . that board become the ISB , which be establish in 2021 . there be problem that affect the ISB , as the Wilkinson review explore , but its work be important . it build trust with victim and survivor . in fact , Mr X tell I that he be " initially sceptical of the ISB when it be set up " but say that it go on to " provide a ray of hope for the survivor community " . by 2022 , the ISB have start review case and make recommendation , with the first publish in November that year , but , as Wilkinson find , there be a " lack of trust " between the ISB and the Church ' s safeguard structure concern " how the recommendation should be implement . " as issue escalate , ultimately , in June 2023 the board member be sack and the board disband . Wilkinson find that " no risk assessment beyond informal conversation be carry out by or on behalf of the Archbishops ' Council member about the effect of " this decision " on victim and survivor who be engage with they , particularly those involve in case review " . she go on to say that it " show lamentably little trauma - inform regard for the vulnerability of the individual with whom the ISB be work " . I have hear from some of the 11 survivor , who suffer mental distress after the decision . three land in emergency mental service , and two develop serious suicidal thought . Mr X call it an " obliteration of hope . " the treatment of survivor here be itself a serious safeguarding failure . it be clear that the secretary - general of the Archbishops ' Council have question to answer . around the time of the dissolution of the ISB , Professor Jay be invite to provide recommendation on the way forward . her report say that " the only way " in which safeguarding can be improve be by make it " truly independent of the Church . " the central problem be that the complexity of the Church mean that rather than one approach , there be 42 different diocese , each with different safeguarding system . safeguard practitioner have say that this limit effective safeguarding . Professor Jay note in her report : " church safeguard service fall below the standard for consistency expect and set in secular organisation . " Lesley - Anne Ryder , the independent co - chair for the response group to Jay , say to Synod that " this level of complexity be incomprehensible . it be counter productive " . she say that it be " one of the way in which you be lose the trust … of the nation " . the complexity create a patchwork of different approach . some diocese do implement robust safeguarding practice , and some have independent sexual violence adviser . the diocese of Newcastle have four permanent staff member with key safeguarding role , include a caseworker and a training lead . I pay tribute to the Bishop of Newcastle , whose leadership on the issue have be commendable . I meet she last year to discuss these matter , and she have much support in the country and , I be sure , the House . other diocese , however , lack such comprehensive system , often rely on bring in external consultant . it be simply not acceptable that the experience of survivor should vary depend on where they live . there must be a unified and consistent system that be evenly resource with the same quality of support , respect the independent expertise of safeguard professional . Professor Jay recommend the " creation of two separate charity , one for independent operational safeguarding and one for independent scrutiny of safeguarding . " it be that issue that go before the General Synod last month . while Synod vote in favour of set up an external scrutiny body , it only back the principle of an independent operation body . that be deeply disappointing — a two - stage approach for an issue of such urgency , when survivor have already wait decade , move from one system to another with no sign of any meaningful resolution . one survivor tell I that he first report his abuse over 40 year ago . any further delay in deliver justice for survivor be simply unacceptable . I do not wish to be misunderstood . the agreement of the Synod to " affirm its commitment to great independence " go forward be an important step , but the decision on operation do not follow the recommendation from Professor Jay and many other specialist and professional , or the preference of many survivor . I believe that more delay will simply confirm the survivor ' view that the Church be kick the can down the road . have speak to Synod member , I do not think that that be the intention , but the reality be that , as thing stand , this patchwork of procedure remain , and the Church effectively continue mark its own homework . that be clearly not acceptable . we will hear from the Minister shortly . it be a welcome step that , early this year , the Government agree to implement Professor Jay ' s iicsa recommendation on safeguarding and abuse . that make it all the more pressing that Professor Jay ' s recommendation for the Church be implement , too . as Mr X say to I : " this be a critical point for the Church . " scripture teach we to " speak up for those who can not speak for themselves . " the Church ought to be a place of refuge , of grace , of trust . yet , for far too many , it have be a place of harm . we have see apology , report and review , yet survivor still tell we that they be unheard , ignore and leave to fight alone for basic justice . that must change . the Church ' s safeguard structure must be independent , transparent and accountable . its day of mark its own homework must end . survivor must be not just consult but place at the heart of reform . let we be absolutely clear : protect the reputation of an institution must never , ever come before protect the safety of a person . the test of faith be not in the easy moment but in the hard truth , and the hard truth be this : trust in the Church will only be restore when every survivor who step forward be meet with compassion , justice and meaningful action . I call Marsha De Cordova . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak in the debate in my capacity as Second Church Estates Commissioner . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) on secure this extremely important debate , and on the way in which he so eloquently set out the issue , the challenge , and the action and next step that need to be take . I share his desire to see survivor of abuse treat justly , with dignity and respect , and for perpetrator to be fully hold to account . like he , I look forward to a time when we all have our confidence in the Church of England ' s safeguard practice fully restore . when I be appoint Second Church Estates Commissioner last October , I could not have foresee the storm that be about to engulf the Church . since the publication of the Makin report , which expose the devastating abuse inflict by John Smyth , MPs — myself include — have receive correspondence from constituent , local clergy , and victim and survivor . indeed , in this debate we have hear from many member from across the House about the many challenge that this issue have raise for they . they have rightly express their concern about the historical and ongoing failure to keep people safe in the Church — the one place that anybody would expect to be a place of safety and sanctuary . they have also express concern about what look to be a lack of consistency and transparency in the Church ' s approach to safeguarding and disclosure of abuse . one of my constituent tell I that they could not go back and tell their parent what be happen to they because it be at the church , which be suppose to be a place of sanctuary where they be safe . to find out that those at the head of the Church would move abuser to another church , instead of move they out of the Church and into jail , just add another insult to injury . do my hon . friend agree that that need to stop now ? my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I agree with her 100 % . these failure be not new . as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland highlight , before the Makin review there be the independent inquiry into child sex abuse . over the past nine year , there have be multiple review into safeguard abuse in the Church of England — multiple review with multiple recommendation , I might add . there have be some positive step and change , and I commend the work of the national safeguard team and many people in our local parish and diocese around the country , who have all be work incredibly hard , but I think we can collectively agree that more need to be do . victim and survivor have be wait for too long . we have come to a point where both Parliament and the public need to see the Church fully commit to change . we have to ensure that safeguarding be transparent , accountable , consistent in its approach to disclosure of abuse , and trust by the public , congregation , clergy and , most importantly , victim and survivor . that be why , at the General Synod in February , during my maiden speech , I make clear my support for the Church ' s safeguard operation to be wholly independent of the Church . that be the approach put forward by the Church ' s lead bishop for safeguarding , Joanne Grenfell , and it be know as model 4 . that approach would have create independent safeguarding operation , an independent complaint process , an independent scrutiny function and independent audits . it be support by Professor Alexis Jay , who be the author of the report " the Future of Church Safeguarding " , know as the Jay review , and by local clergy in my constituency of Battersea . they make it clear to I that , while they be get on with the day - to - day work of the Church , serve and support their local community on the frontline , they want to see the Church as an institution show some humility . like I , they do not think that the Church should mark its own homework . it be therefore a huge disappointment to I that the Synod choose not to back a wholly independent model of safeguarding . instead , it opt for the creation of an external scrutiny body to examine the Church ' s safeguard practice . that approach be know as model 3 , and it will see the transfer of most of the function currently deliver by the Church ' s national safeguarding team , except policy development , to an external employer . although model 3 include look at some of the practicality of create a fully independent safeguarding body to take on all the Church ' s safeguard work , I do not believe that that be the approach that need to be take , as I have outline . it be vital , however , that the work be take up with urgency and at pace . at present , there be no clear deadline and no clear plan for take the work forward . I believe we need to see a clear plan if we be to give victim and survivor , and the public , hope that the Church will really transform its approach to safeguarding , and the safety of those who be part of it . it be right that the Synod vote to " lament and repent of the failure of the Church to be welcome to victim and survivor and the harm they have experience and continue to experience in the life of the Church " , but we need to remember that keep people safe and ensure accountability be the good way to honour victim and survivor of abuse . some be probably watch today ' s debate ; some may even be here in person . they will be listen , and they will know well than any of we that there be still a long way to go . the Church must treat its work on independent safeguarding operation as a matter of urgency . we need no more blocking ; we just need action , because action will speak louder than any word that any of we say here today . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland for his commitment to see this change through . he should be commend for his relentlessness in ensure that this place have the opportunity to debate the issue . this be one of the first Adjournment debate on an issue that affect the Church , and it be important that many hon . member have choose to be in the Chamber , to contribute and to raise such important issue . as I say when the Makin report be publish in November last year , this have to be a watershed moment for the Church to transform both its culture and its safeguarding structure . unless that happen , what will happen to the Church ? many of we here be Christians and follower of Jesus , so we want to see the Church change . the Church be a voice for the voiceless , as many of we know , and I hope I will not find myself in this Chamber in a year or two repeat the same sentiment . we be talk not just about change attitude and culture , but about change safeguard structure . while power be hold by a small number of people who be refuse to let go of that power , it be become increasingly apparent that it be impossible to change that culture , so the structure of the Church itself need to change . my hon . friend have also be use her voice to speak up on this issue . we need to focus on the matter at hand : safeguard in the Church of England . we have see the recommendation in the Makin review and in all the previous review , so my question be : if change do not happen now , then when will it happen ? it be a pleasure to follow the Second Church Estates Commissioner , my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) . I thank she for her powerful speech and for all she do to encourage the Church to face up to its responsibility on safeguard and to acknowledge the pain and suffer the Church have cause to far too many people , because of its failure around safeguard . I thank she for ensure that the House have a proper role in the scrutiny of the process , as the Church must move forward . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) for his consider , thoughtful and harrowing speech , and for all the work he have so powerfully take forward on behalf of the survivor of the abuse with whom he be work . we must look to those people for the way forward , to ensure that the Church properly recognise the action it must take to make sure that those crime be not repeat in the future . I thank he for give I the chance to make a brief contribution on such a serious matter . I must declare a number of interest . both my parent be retired member of the clergy in the Church of England , in the diocese of Carlisle . I be member of St Serf ' s church in Burntisland , in the diocese of St Andrews , in the Scottish Episcopal Church , which be a member of the worldwide Anglican Communion . I be both formerly the safeguarding co - ordinator for our congregation and , prior to my election , I be the convener of the Provincial Safeguarding Committee of the Scottish Episcopal Church . I be one of million of people across the world for whom faith and worship within the anglican communion play a huge and positive part in my life . we belong to our church because we want it to be a force for good , not just in our own life and the life of our congregation , but for our wide community . that be why our congregation should be and must be place where every member be respect , value and safe . it be appalling and deeply sadden that that have not be the case for far too many people over so many year in the Church of England , and that these safeguard failure — these crime of abuse — have be allow to go on . we have hear in this debate why they have be allow to go on and about the failure of leadership that lie behind that . the horrific act of abuse document in the independent report of the child sexual abuse inquiry into the Church of England and , more recently , the shocking event investigate by the Makin review must never be allow to happen again . I believe it be important , as we have hear from other , to recognise that in make the case to take forward the important recommendation in those report , the focus be not on restore the reputation of the Church or on discuss who in the Church leadership have to take ultimate accountability , important though that be . the focus of the process must be on the accountability of the Church to the survivor of abuse , who have so bravely speak out about the need for change — the ISB 11 and so many other . I find it appalling and incredible that they have not be hear by Church leader as they should have be . crucially , they must be listen to in order to ensure that these crime be not repeat in the future , that people in our congregation be safe and that we be actually true to our christian mission . during my own involvement in safeguard policy in the Scottish Episcopal Church , we make significant change to our policy and process because we recognise that even though we be a far small church , we still have to do more to ensure that there be proper recognition of the importance of safeguard in every congregation in the province . I be greatly assist in that work by an expert in safeguarding , David Strang , a former chief constable of Lothian and Borders police . although I be sure that we can still do much more in our Church , crucial to the process for reform in the Episcopal Church be both increase resource for safeguard and establish the fundamental principle of independent oversight of safeguarding . that experience lead I to conclude that the Church of England should listen not only to survivor of abuse , who have suffer from its own failure of leadership and safeguarding , but to the expert who have investigate so fully , with such great intensity and so diligently , how these appalling event be allow to happen . after the vote at Synod last month not to move immediately to independent safeguarding professional at all level of the Church , Professor Alexis Jay say of the decision : " it will be devastating for victim and survivor , whose trust and confidence will absolutely not be restore as a consequence of the decision . " give the failure of safeguard that have happen within diocese and within cathedral vestry , as we have hear , that appear to be a very rational conclusion to what be agree at Synod . we have be assure that the model of safeguarding that have be approve will facilitate all safeguarding in the Church move into an independent organisation in due course , but it have now be nearly two year since the Church ' s independent advisory board on safeguard be dismiss . I believe that the Church should now finally act swiftly to complete that process and move to a fully independent structure for safeguard . give the scale of the abuse and the suffering cause , I hope that the Minister will agree it be vital that the Government and this House play our part in shine a light on the process within the Church . the victim and survivor of abuse within the Church have ask to be hear . they have make their case so powerfully and with such patience , despite all that they have face and endure . it be vital that , after all they have suffer and the dignity with which they have make their argument for change , they be hear in the Church and in this Parliament . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) for secure this important debate . safeguarding be the responsibility of everyone in our society , and the Church of England be just one of many institution that have fall short after have issue with abuse and safeguarding . my hon . friend mention that although there be clear issue in part of the Church , there be example of good practice . he make mention of his own Church , and I point to the example of the diocese of Oxford . last September , an independent report say that the diocese of Oxford have a " solid safeguarding foundation " , which be deliver by an " exceptionally well - lead and blend safeguarding team " . it also commend what it describe as a " safeguard first " philosophy and congratulate the parish in the diocese on their work on the frontline , " where talented parish safeguard officer lead by example " and where " collaboration be strong " . I mention that because that should be the standard . it should not be a postcode lottery ; it should be the standard across the Church . what I have describe be proof that it can be do by the institution , but in too many case , it be not be do . victim want a victim - centre approach — one that be not about protect the reputation of individual or the institution . practical action be need , and frankly , the victim must also have confidence that those who have be involve in the Church ' s failing will not be able to influence future decision making in this area . that be why the decision of the General Synod on this issue be entirely regrettable , and one to be lament by this House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) for the sensitive way in which he open this debate , and for the detailed way in which he set out the journey that have bring we to tonight ' s discussion . it be tell that there be a lot of member present across the Chamber tonight . of course , we stand with victim and we be appal that there have be so many , but I be sure I speak for many of we when I say that we be passionate about the Church of England , what it stand for and what it seek to do — how it seek to lift we to another plane and give we hope . we want to see it succeed , but it be so important that the Church get its relationship with safeguard right , because so many victim have be fail : victim of physical and sexual abuse , of emotional or financial abuse , and of coercion . as the Church of England be the established church and enjoy a privileged position in this country , it be right that it be accountable to Parliament and that we be have this debate . it be important to note that it be not just the Church that have have issue with safeguarding , as profound as those issue may be . it be not just religious group or organise religion , whether Christianity or other religion ; there be many other sector across society , include the medium , education and healthcare , where we can point to very poor safeguarding practice . however , what many people find particularly disappointing about the Church be that they feel it be a place where they ought to be safe , and they ought to be able to trust its leader . many of those leader do an outstanding job , often in difficult circumstance , but fundamentally — as with the other sector that have experience these issue — the Church be run by people . in that respect , it be no different . I want to touch on how the Church have respond to some safeguarding issue and where , in an attempt to provide redress for its past failing , it have be ham - fiste in deal with case of people who perhaps have not meet the threshold for be on the receive end of sanction for something that they may or may not have do . I be remind of the case of Bishop George Bell , whose reputation have be solid , and who be deem not to have commit any crime at all . there be similar instance that will never be report , and those people carry around that burden with they . it be important that the Church learn to be proactive about safeguard and support victim , but also ensure that it do not take people through a safeguarding process who should not be there , or perhaps should be investigate but with no further action take . it be important that the Church understand that it must strike that balance , because if it be take action against people to safeguard its own reputation , it be fail a whole different set of people . I be sorry to have see some case like that in the course of my work . I be pleased that the Church be begin to come to term with what it need to do to put this right , so that people trust it more than they have be able to in recent year , and that it be keen to learn lesson . however , it be deeply disappointing that the Church have not choose to have an independent process to give people more trust , remove the almost political priority of its leader and their desire to save their reputation — leader right from the top , down to parish level — in favour of something that can be more objective about individual ’ case , as well as about wide policy . as I begin by say , we be desperate for the Church to succeed . it bring so much to all of our community — there be food bank that have be set up because of what the Church do , and social activity that bring people together . that be aside from all the work that the Church do to support people in their faith and give they hope , so we need it to succeed . it be the custodian of so many of the world ' s most important building . it make a fantastic and huge contribution to our cultural life , but it absolutely must get this issue right . if it fail to do so , it will face an existential threat , and I can not countenance that as a proud Anglican . I want to see the Church succeed , but it must do right by victim . it must embed the change that it need to embed and change its culture so that it be not characterise in these term go forward , so that we do not have to discuss this issue any far and so that the Church can get on with what it be here to do . first , I thank everybody who have speak in the debate . I give special mention to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) for the passionate and detailed manner in which he take the House through the issue . the story of victim that we have hear today be harrowing , not just in the fact of their abuse , but in the ignorance and the shutdown describe by my hon . friend and by Mr X ' s constituency MP , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) , which I suppose be the issue that compound it . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) talk about this be an issue face in many institution . the Church of England or any other religious institution be not alone in have face safeguard issue and problem over the year , but it be how we react to that safeguard challenge and what we put in place that matter . it be not for the Government to tell the Church of England how to have its process — the Synod be there to do that . when my hon . friend be list institution that have face safeguarding issue , one that be not list be this institution . I recall — many of the people here today be here then — that one of the thing we do here , which people like I fight for , be to put in an independent process to oversee issue of sexual abuse and violence within this institution . safeguarding be rightly the responsibility of all , and I be grateful for the important contribution make today . I welcome the opportunity to talk about the Government ' s approach to safeguarding . let I be clear that I can not tell the Synod what it have to do , but I condemn the act of psychological , emotional and physical and sexual abuse against both adult and child , include where those occur in religious setting or context . as with every case of abuse , my thought be first and foremost with the victim and survivor . I understand what the Minister be say . however , we have a situation where the institution be compound that abuse , by the way that it be protect the people in power or the people in power be protect the perpetrator , thereby far hurt victim . I understand that the Minister can not tell the Church of England how to conduct its safeguarding . however , will she please acknowledge that its failure to conduct proper safeguarding be compound that abuse and be something that the Church of England have a duty to correct ? I gladly agree with my hon . friend . what I know from year work on the frontline with victim of historical and current abuse — it be usually sexual abuse that I be talk about in this particular instance — be that victim tell I that what happen to they be horrendous , but what continue to happen to they because of failure by institution to act be bad . it be a long , more traumatic experience . whether this involve our court system , our police system , our local authority or — as in this instance — the Church , we have opportunity , as those who take a role in safeguarding , to do the right thing . it be not always easy to do the right thing straightaway and to make everything perfect , and I do not think anyone be ask for that . however , it be important for the process that be put in place — and we have to do this as a nation , let alone what the Church have to do — to ensure that even if the outcome be not perfect , for justice be not always serve , the procedure that people go through do not cause further harm . that should be the bare minimum that victim can expect . we be committed to tackle all form of abuse against child wherever they occur , include the despicable crime of child sexual abuse . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to implement the iicsa recommendation , notably the introduction of mandatory reporting , which will go a long way towards tackle abuse in religious setting . do the Minister agree , particularly in the context of more independent safeguarding process , that as we work to improve safeguard in the Church of England we should also take the opportunity to bolster safeguard within small religious group , especially high - control religious group like the one in which I grow up , in respect of which public awareness of the scale of failing be very low ? absolutely . I will go on to talk about mandatory reporting , but the fundamental point be that , big or small , rich or poor , organisation that be in a position of power and responsibility and be work with child or vulnerable adult have a safeguarding responsibility . I would hope that big institution , whether they be government or the large religious institution , want always to lead by example in this regard . as have be mention , the Government have make a commitment to introduce a mandatory duty for those work with child to report sexual abuse and exploitation , make it a clear legal requirement for anyone in regulated activity — which will include the Church — relate to child in England to report to the police or the local authority if they be make aware that a child be be sexually abuse . we be pleased that that commitment be introduce last week in the Crime and Policing Bill . we be also committed to make groom an aggravating factor , toughen up sentence and set up a new victim and survivor panel , and we will set out a clear timeline for take forward the 20 recommendation of the final iicsa report on child sexual abuse . as a nation , we also receive recommendation from Professor Alexis Jay . we like to conduct review . institution and government like to conduct review . we will not always agree with every recommendation , or even be able to implement every recommendation , but what be the point of constantly conduct review and just say , " Lessons will be learn " ? lesson must actually be learn , and that must be follow by action . it would seem from the litany of review detail by my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland that a great many action could be be undertake currently . the Government be commit to safeguard child and protect they from harm in all setting . there be already many legal power in place to protect they , and local authority have a legal duty to investigate when they believe that a child be suffer or be likely to suffer significant harm . keep child safe in all setting be our priority , and we be drive forward important work include update guidance for staff and parent regard out - of - school setting and strengthen guidance for local authority on their legal power to intervene , and the upcoming call for evidence will inform long - term proposal for safeguard reform . the Government have introduce the landmark Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which put protect child at its heart , in addition to other measure such as the 2023 update of the Government ' s " work together to safeguard child " statutory guidance . the Bill will improve information sharing across and within agency , strengthen the role of education in multi - agency safeguarding arrangement , and will require the implementation of multi - agency child protection team so that child be well protect in both school and out - of - school setting . we will not let up in our effort to safeguard and protect child and adult . it be crucial that we continue to step up prevention effort , drive up reporting , bring more offender to justice , and ensure that victim and survivor receive well care and support . I be grateful to the Minister for what she be say . give that it have be cite that there could be a technical reason with the Charity Commission as to the role of trustee within the structure of cathedral , will she meet representative of the Charity Commission to ensure that any impediment be work through and that , if necessary , this place legislate to remove that impediment ? I think my hon . friend be go to ask I a very technical question about the trustee of cathedral ; characteristically , I would have stand up and say I do not know the answer . I can absolutely commit to meet representative of the Charity Commission to talk to they about what the impediment in this instance appear to be , because it almost certainly have read across for safeguard in other institution . if there be in fact an impediment , as the Minister for Safeguarding , I would be keen to find out what the impediment be . there should be no status that be protect from scrutiny , and the culture of silence — through wilful ignorance or , bad , malign intent — to safeguard reputation above child must end wherever we see it . lament and repenting be all well and good , but what my mom use to say to I be , " sorry be just a word you say . change your behaviour prove to I that you be sorry . " we owe a debt to the victim who come forward about any institutional abuse . we owe they more than lament and repent . we owe they change . question put and agree to . House adjourn .