I beg to move , that this House have consider the International Investment Summit . I be delighted to open this debate on the Government ' s inaugural international investment summit , which we host at the Guildhall in London on Monday . leader of the world ' s big company , from Alphabet and BlackRock to Goldman Sachs and Novo Nordisk , come from all corner of the globe to meet Government Ministers and to listen to what our new Government have to say . our message at the summit be clear : the UK be open for business once again . we have turn the page on the stagnation and instability of the previous Government , and in just over 100 day , this Government have put growth front and centre of our agenda and reassure investor that we will create the very good condition for they to invest and to grow their business , restore the economic stability and confidence for which business have be cry out for too long . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor make it clear that the UK have an enormous amount to offer , as do all the high - profile investor who speak at the summit , include esteemed business figure such as Larry Fink , Eric Swartz , Ruth Porat and more . we have make clear our commitment to growth and restore economic stability , and we have give business the confidence that they need for the long term . business be safe in the knowledge that the UK at last have a Government whose central mission be to grow the economy and stimulate private investment , thereby end the chaos and churn of the last 14 year . as both the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have set out , increase investment into the UK be the Government ' s no . 1 priority to drive growth . our mission - drive approach allow we to think in term of year , not week , and to commit to the hard yard require to break down the silos that have too often prevent effective government and get in the way of real growth - drive change . this be about ambitious policymaking for the long term , not stick - plaster politic . as the Chancellor say early this week : " if the challenge be growth , investment be the solution . " I be delighted to say that , as a result of the stability dividend introduce by this Government , we announce a record - break £ 63 billion of shovel - ready investment across the country — more than at any previous summit , and more than double the total of last year ' s summit — from global company such as Eli Lilly , ServiceNow , holtec and many other .