it be the honour of my life to speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for my home town of Gedling . to be give the opportunity to represent your neighbour and the place you be proud to call home in the great democratic Chamber in the world be a tremendous privilege and responsibility . to the people of Gedling who send I here to speak up for they , thank you . I be eternally grateful for your support and trust . in my time in this House , I shall work tirelessly to repay that trust , represent each and every one of you to the very good of my ability . my immediate predecessor be Tom Randall . he and I have our difference , but the fact that two young boy who grow up in Arnold and attend Redhill comprehensive school go on to represent their home town in Parliament say so much about the power of education and the value of our democracy , both of which must be cherish and protect . in particular , I thank Tom for his work in stand up for Hongkongers in Gedling and across the United Kingdom . at the count on election night , I promise that I would continue that important work , and I be pleased to be able to restate that promise on the Floor of the House today . in 1997 , Gedling elect its first Labour MP , my friend Vernon Coaker , now Lord Coaker . for 22 year , Vernon serve the people of gedle with distinction . he be widely respect across this House , just as he be now in the other place . as a kid grow up in Gedling , I be inspire by Vernon visit my school , so I would like to place on record my thank to Vernon and his wife Jackie for their service to Gedling . since the general election , as I have listen to inspire contribution from member across the House , I have be constantly remind that the privilege of be elect to this House bring with it a duty to speak up for those who feel voiceless , powerless and ignore — people like my auntie , Tara Payne , whose first husband , Thomas Muir , die on 1 August 2013 at just 55 year of age , a victim of the infected blood scandal . Thomas and ten of thousand of other lose their life because their country fail they . it be only because of the courage , perseverance and resilience of those affect and their family that this Government finally commit to compensate they for this horrify injustice . the victim of the infected blood scandal learn through heartbreaking experience that the word of Martin Luther King be as true today as when he first speak they : " injustice anywhere be a threat to justice everywhere . " thirty - six year ago , if you have tell the young working - class boy grow up in a terrace house in Arnold , just outside of Nottingham , that he would one day be represent the place he owe everything to in the United Kingdom Parliament , he would never have believe it , and I still do not today . the value that our great country and this Parliament stand for , and the parliamentarian and trailblazer who have go before we , mean that kid from background like mine can achieve their dream and ambition , irrespective of their birthright . during my time in this House , I promise to do all I can to ensure that child in Gedling and across our country have the good possible start in life and be give the support and education to realise their dream and their full potential , because if we be not here in this House to leave a well society for future generation , what be we here for at all ? I be only able to stand here and speak from these Benches today for three reason : a love family , an excellent education and a wonderful community . let I begin with the community that I be proud to call home . gedle be a constituency that may not be know by its name , but it certainly should be know by its nature : a beautiful collection of town and village to the north - east of the city of Nottingham and border the bank of the River Trent . it be surround by the historical footprint of the ancient Sherwood forest and the rural beauty of Nottinghamshire county . my home town of Arnold be a market town with a proud history of hosiery . it be the centre of the framework knitting industry in the 19th century , and the site of the first frame - break incident of the luddite riot in March 1811 — not that I agree with the rioter ' view on technology in the workplace , but their cause , increase pay and condition and improve living standard , be just as important today as it be then . that be why I be proud to serve as part of a Government who be introduce the big advance in worker ’ right for a generation . the town of Carlton be once home to a thriving textile industry , and be famous for its brickwork , as well as be home to the late , great actor Richard Beckinsale . it be now primarily residential , as be the small railway town of Netherfield , the beautiful village of Colwick and the bustling high - street community of Mapperley and Porchester . gedle be also home to several picturesque village that form part of rural nottinghamshire : Burton Joyce , Stoke Bardolph , Lambley , Woodborough and the former mining village of Bestwood , where the original 1876 victorian wind engine house still stand in its full glory , thank to the work of the wind engine house volunteer group and friend of Bestwood Country Park . at the heart of the constituency be the historical village from which the constituency take its name : gedle . it be home to all Hallows church , whose beautiful spire be an inspiration to one of the architect of this Palace , Augustus Pugin . all Hallows stand proudly in the landscape of its surrounding and at the foot of the former gedle colliery . gedle colliery be one of the most important colliery in Nottinghamshire , and be know as the pit of nation in honour of its diverse workforce , include from the Windrush generation . it be there that my grandad serve as a coal miner . I still remember the tear in his eye when , on the 25th anniversary of the colliery ' s closure , I accompany he and his fellow former coal miner on a visit to gedle country park , which now stand in the place of the colliery , and which I be proud to play a part in create as deputy leader of Gedling borough council . the miner of our past power this country ' s future . we owe they an eternal debt of gratitude . that be why I be so proud be part of a Government who be finally end the miner ' pension injustice . my family have live in gedle for generation . they mean everything to I . I grow up in a home where hard work , respect , play by the rule and honesty mean everything . those be value that matter to most family , and they be the value that will guide I during my time in this place . grow up as the son of a mechanic , watch my dad work hard at three job just to keep a roof over my head and pay the bill , I learn the meaning of hard work and the true meaning of family . grow up watch my grandad and nana spend many year raise much - need fund for Derrymount school — a school for child with special educational need and disability — I learn the meaning of compassion and never look down on anyone . grow up as the son of a mum who go without so that I could be the first in my family to go to university , I learn the meaning of true love and selflessness . my politic and belief be important to I , but , like million of other people across this country , nothing be more important to I than my family . it be for that reason that make this maiden speech have not be easy . there be two people I desperately wish be watch from the Public Gallery today : John Herbert Waplington and Joan Edna Waplington — my grandad and my nana . their love and compassion , and the value that they and my parent teach I , be the reason I be who I be today . they be the reason I believe in help other . my nana and grandad be so proud to see I elect to serve my home community on Gedling borough council in May 2011 , and they would have be even prouder to see I elect to this place to serve our home community . it be true that love really be the great gift that one generation can leave to another , and I be forever bless to have be love by they both . gedle be full of people with compassion and a desire to serve other . I have have the privilege of meeting so many of they over the year . Helen Lloyd and the volunteer at Arnold food bank ; Tina Simpson and the team at Netherfield St George ' s Centre ; Nathan Kenney and Mapperley all Stars ; Joel Baldry and the team at the Ark in Gedling ; the friend of Gedling Country Park ; Daybrook bowl club , which be celebrate its centenary this year ; the wonderful musician of Burton Joyce community brass , and many more extraordinary people and group , make Gedling such a wonderful community . gedle be also home to brilliant school with inspirational teacher and staff . I spend many happy year at Richard Bonington primary school and Redhill comprehensive school . like so many other across the country , I owe so much to my teacher for their encouragement , support and inspiration . be elect to serve my home town in this place be the second great moment of my life . the first be marry my husband , Kyle Robinson - Payne , on 1 July 2022 . I be delighted that he be in the Public Gallery today , just as he have be with I on every step of my journey to this place . we live in a world where far too many people continue to be persecute for who they be and who they love . for as long as I be in this place , I will use this platform to speak up for they and their right . as our much - miss and beautiful friend Jo Cox teach we , whatever our difference , we always have so much more in common than that which divide we .