Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Scottish Visa Scheme what discussion she have have with the Scottish Government on the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish visa scheme . the hon . Gentleman have raise this issue on a number of occasion . he will be aware that we be not introduce a scottish visa scheme or devolving control of immigration policy , and this have be make clear to the Scottish Government . instead , we must together address the underlie cause of skill shortage and overseas recruitment in different part of the UK , which this Government be do . I thank the Minister for her tiresome and repetitive response . she will know that Scotland have a whole range of demographic and population difficulty that need to be urgently address , with every sector from social care to hospitality , include business leader , call out for drastic action . even her scottish Labour colleague be begin to understand the enormity of this task . today we find that Labour ' s grotesque two - child benefit cap be now have an impact on Scotland ' s birth rate . instead of slap down her scottish colleague and reject this idea out of hand , why do she not work with we just to see if it might actually work ? the hon . Gentleman know that net migration must come down . it treble under the last government , largely drive by overseas recruitment . immigration be a reserved matter , work in the interest of the whole UK . previous scheme along the line that he have suggest have succeed only in restrict movement and right and create internal UK border . add different rule for different location would also increase complexity and create friction when worker move location . Scotland be a diverse place . some area be see depopulation , but area such as East Lothian , which I represent , be see unprecedented population growth . will the Minister commit to work constructively with the Scottish Government on their woeful population strategy , which in 17 year have comprehensively fail to address Scotland ' s demographic challenge ? we be commit to work with the Scottish Government on this and all issue . indeed , many of the lever to address depopulation in Scotland be in power that the Scottish Government already have at their disposal . the reason for local worker leave particular area must be address through investment in job , in infrastructure and in public service , and many of these be issue that we must tackle together . Fraud and Economic Crime what step her Department be take to tackle fraud and economic crime . fraud account for 39 % of all crime , accord to the England and Wales crime survey , and it be the most common type of crime in the year end March 2024 . it be a crime that destroy life and we be commit to work with law enforcement and industry to well protect the public and business from the fraud threat they face . we know that 39 % of all report crime be fraud , and many of those offence be carry out by serious organise crime gang . the National Crime Agency be task with protect my constituent from foreign origin fraud and serious organise crime , but a recent report from Spotlight on Corruption find that after 14 year of conservative government the NCA be " on its knee " , spend million of pound on consultant and fail to retain investigator . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the NCA be able to protect my constituent from financial crime ? let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the NCA for its operational leadership and its focus on tackle economic crime . through collaborate with jurisdiction at risk , we make it hard for organise crime group to target UK victim . the national fraud squad , run by the NCA ' s national economic crime centre , and the City of London police , with 400 new officer by next year , have boost the ability to tackle the high - harm international offender . we be work to deliver a workforce strategy to address retention challenge for fraud . this be important work that impact on all our constituent and it be a priority area for this Government . the Minister will know that online harm go beyond fraud . it can impact people ' s live through suicide site that signpost people to unregulated site that lead they to a place none of we want to see they go to . he will know that the European Commission be currently investigate Facebook and Instagram . the United States be introduce the kid online safety Act , which , if it be pass by Congress , will make a huge impact . why be it leave to parent in the United Kingdom — in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , wherever they be — to take their own litigation against these big tech company ? be it not time the Government do more ? we be do more , and I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that this be a key priority for the Department , not least because 70 % of fraud have an international element , particularly online . approximately one in 18 adult be victim of fraud in the year end March 2024 . the noble Lord Hanson lead on this for the Department , and he and I be work closely with other Government Departments , include the Treasury and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . this be a priority and we need to do more . neighbourhood police what step her Department be take to improve neighbourhood policing . what step her Department be take to improve neighbourhood policing . what step her Department be take to improve neighbourhood policing . what step her Department be take to improve neighbourhood policing . neighbourhood policing be the bedrock of the british policing model , yet in many area of the country it have be decimate in recent year . this Government be commit to rebuild neighbourhood police by put officer , police community support officer and special constable back in our community with new power to tackle antisocial behaviour and local crime . my constituent rightly want to see more neighbourhood police team on their street . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to bring in 10 , 000 more neighbourhood police officer , but can the Secretary of State assure I that west London will get the neighbourhood police team we need ? my hon . friend be right that we now have thousand few police officer and pcso on the street than we have a decade ago . this include the previous Government halve the number of pcso and cut the number of special constable by two third . this newly elect Government be work at pace to introduce a new neighbourhood policing guarantee , put police officer and pcso back on the street . we have also announce funding and support for the College of Policing to begin the national roll - out of specialist training for neighbourhood officer in order to professionalise and strengthen the work they do in every corner of the country . I welcome the Home Secretary to her place . my community in Harlow have be let down by the lack of neighbourhood policing . what will the Home Secretary do to address this issue , both through police on the street and through the resource they have ? my hon . friend make an important point . this be a challenge we be face across the country . the proportion of people say that they barely ever see the police be now nearly half , up from a quarter when the Conservatives come to power in 2010 . this have be deeply damaging to public confidence , and we need the police back on the beat , but they also need the power to act . that be why we will also bring forward new power to tackle shoplifting and antisocial behaviour , especially in our town centre . resident in Bracknell be concerned about the increase number of drug user and dealer on our street . I raise this issue when I recently meet our neighbourhood police team . what more support can be give to local police and other local service to get drug dealer off our street ? my hon . friend make an important point . drug dealing , drug misuse and other form of antisocial behaviour and crime be a real challenge in many community . first , we need to get neighbourhood police back on the beat to address these challenge . secondly , neighbourhood police need great power , and we will introduce respect order that allow the police to take action against repeat offender and to make sure that our street and community can be keep safe . in Ealing Southall , religious organisation be spend their own money protect worshipper from antisocial behaviour and crime in the early morning . Sri Guru Singh Sabha gurdwara , for example , be spend £ 3 , 000 to £ 4 , 000 a week on patrol and security measure . I recently call a crime summit and , although the police be try their good , the community need more police on the street and a return to neighbourhood policing . what progress have be make on recruit the much - need 13 , 000 new police and community support officer we need to restore trust in the safety of our community and town centre ? order . can member please speak through the Chair ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) for the leadership she be show in her community . the point she raise be partly about increase neighbourhood police number , which be part of this Labour Government ' s plan . it be also about ensure that we have partnership between the police and local community , rather than community feel that they have to do this alone . such partnership between the police and community be at the heart of the british model of police by consent , which be what we need to restore and rebuild after the damage that have be do . the cost of rural crime shoot up by 41 % in the south - west between 2022 and 2023 , while 86 % of respondent to a recent National Farmers Union survey say that rural crime be negatively affect farmer ' mental health . how be the Department support neighbourhood officer and rural beat to adequately deal with the heighten level of rural crime ? the hon . Member make a serious point . we need to increase neighbourhood police in rural area and to recognise the additional different challenge that rural area can face , both because of the geography and the particular kind of crime that affect farmer and farming equipment . that be why we have set out our intention to draw up a new rural crime action plan , alongside our plan for neighbourhood policing . under the last Conservative Government , exclude fraud and computer misuse , crime fall by 50 % — [ interruption . ] I be pleased to say that in Beverley and Holderness , as across the rest of the country , it be community group , local people and the police work together who help to do that . work with the local community , the Cherry Tree Centre help to reduce antisocial behaviour in the St Nicholas area of Beverley by 43 % , year on year , by last summer . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that such community co - operation lead to further cut in crime , which be so welcome under the Conservatives ? I caution the right hon . member against exclude one of the most common crime in the country from his figure . some of the crime that impact town centre at the heart of local community most heavily , such as shoplifting , street crime and street theft , have soar in recent year , but there be no response at all by the previous Government . we be make those crime a priority as part of our plan to change some of the law around shoplifting and assault on shop worker , as well as get more police back on the beat . one of the big problem face by the neighbourhood police team in Cheadle be antisocial behaviour and the scourge of off - road bike . what be the Secretary of State do to help Greater Manchester police tackle off - road bike in our community ? the hon . member be right that off - road bike be a total nightmare in some community . I have talk to resident who have be drive mad by the scourge of dangerous off - road bike that be use to harass and intimidate people . we be look at way to strengthen the law on off - road biking to give the police the power they need to tackle that kind of damage antisocial behaviour . give the Home Secretary ' s great concern about shoplifting and antisocial behaviour , will she make an assessment on the " put it right " scheme for young offender that have be successfully pilot in my constituency ? I welcome the point the hon . Member make . to tackle shoplifting , we need to ensure that strong enough law and police partnership be in place , and that we do prevention and follow - up work with young people . as she may know , we be set up a new Young Futures programme , which be all about the great work we need to do to prevent young people be draw into crime in the first place . I encourage she to tell we more detail about her local work to tackle this issue . I call the shadow Minister . the last Conservative Government stand with our brave police officer and emergency service worker . we introduce tough sentence for those who assault they and the Elizabeth medal to recognise those who lose their life in the line of duty , and we be look to recognise those who be discharge from service as a result of injury on the frontline . will the Secretary of State continue that work ? will she meet with I and former policeman Tom Curry , who have be lead an excellent campaign on this important issue ? I have long be a strong supporter of the Elizabeth medal . I pay tribute to Bryn Hughes and other for their work campaign for recognition for police officer and other emergency worker who have be lose in the line of duty , and who have give so much to support other people and keep other safe . I have attend the police bravery award every year for the last 14 year , exactly because it be so important to support brave officer . I be absolutely determined to ensure that we not only continue with that work , but go far to support brave officer who put their life at risk . I be very happy to continue cross - party work on this issue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in Greater Manchester , the " right care , right person " approach be recently introduce , since a police response to a mental health - relate call be not always the right fit . there be grow concern , though , about unclear line of responsibility between mental health service and the police , which may cause case to be mishandle . what step be the Government take to ensure that co - ordination between the police and mental health service be as clear and effective as it can be , so that those who most need support do not fall through the crack ? the hon . member raise an important issue . that co - ordination between police and mental health service can be crucial in some of the most serious case , where people be a danger to the public for reason perhaps link to a mental health crisis , but also in many case where someone be not a danger to the public and mental health professional may be far well able to respond than police officer . significant work have be do , but she be right that we need far close work between police and mental health service across the country . that have also be part of the work that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be do in the NHS and the Department of Health and Social Care on improve mental health service . small Boat crossing what step her Department be take to tackle criminal gang facilitate small boat crossing . what step her Department be take to tackle criminal gang facilitate small boat crossing . can I ask the Home Secretary please to look at I occasionally ? it would help . apology , Mr Speaker ; I always like the chance to be able to look towards you . the criminal smuggling and traffic gang that organise small boat crossing be undermine our border security and put life at risk . it be truly tragic that a little baby die in the channel this weekend . those gang have be get away with this for far too long . that be why the Government have set up a new border security command , lead by former police chief Martin Hewitt , to work with other country to go after the gang . small boat crossing be an issue raise by resident , but we know that organised crime stretch beyond people smuggle . in my Portsmouth North constituency we recently see the sentencing of a criminal gang that attempt to smuggle 2 . 3 tonne of cocaine into the city from Colombia . can the Secretary of State expand on how we be tackle organise crime relate to smuggle drug and dangerous weapon into our port , to ensure that those thing do not hit our street ? my hon . friend make an important point . there be many different threat to our border security , which be why we have set up the border security command to draw together the work of different agency , include on dangerous drug smuggling and organised crime , bring together Border Force , the National Crime Agency , the intelligence and security agency and local police force . the border security command ' s first priority will be to deal with the dangerous boat crossing that be undermine security and put life at risk , but as part of its work it will be deal with the wide threat to our border as well . I thank the Home Secretary for her answer about the criminal gang . People in Bristol North East also ask I about deterrence . what reassurance can I give they that this action be be back up with measure to stop illegal working by people who do not have a right to work here ? my hon . friend make an important point about how employer have exploit illegal migration . as a result , we set up a major programme through the summer , include raid , pursue illegal working in different place across the country . we have also substantially increase our work on return , include redeploy 1 , 000 additional staff to work on return and enforcement , to make sure the rule be be properly respect and enforce . that have lead to an increase of more than 20 % in enforce return this summer . give that dangerous foreign criminal have be use the european convention on human right as a loophole to remain in the UK , do the Home Secretary agree that it be time to leave the echr and restore the sovereignty of our own border ? the purpose of set up a border security command be to strengthen the security of our border . we will do that by work with other country . it be crucial that we do so to tackle the gang and the boat before they reach the french coast in the first place . we have increase our co - operation , with new agreement in place with the G7 , Europol and Italy , and we be work on new agreement with France , Germany and Belgium . those agreement would not be possible if we be somehow abandon international law . as the House will be aware , there have be recent crossing . be the Home Secretary consider reopen hotel to house asylum seeker , and if so will she commit to keep the House inform about the methodology for choose those hotel and ensure that constituency member be inform at the appropriate time ? ensure that constituency member be inform be something that I take seriously . it often do not happen in the past , but it be important and it need to happen . the overall situation that we inherit include an asylum backlog that be increase because asylum decision making have totally collapse . we have now increase that decision making so that we can clear the backlog and end hotel use . sadly , that will take time — because of the soar backlog we inherit as a result of the collapse in decision making — but we be determined to ensure that we can clear the backlog and save the taxpayer hundred of million , if not billion , of pound . give the Home Secretary ' s claim that she would smash the gang , with £ 540 million to upgrade the Manston centre , asylum hotel reopen rapidly and 14 , 000 small boat crossing since she take office , be that the plan that she have for her new border commander ? might it be fair to say that it be not go very well ? I gently point out to the hon . Gentleman what we inherit from the previous Government . in the first six month of the year , there be the high number of boat crossing on record because of the total failure of their programme , include spend £ 700 million on a scheme to send four people — four volunteer — to Rwanda . as for the contract , he may be interested to learn that the first Manston contract notice be issue on 4 December 2023 under the previous Home Secretary for £ 700 million for six year with no suggest break clause . the new contract be not only substantially cheap because we have make saving , but also include break clause so that we can close , change or reduce the contract to save the taxpayer money , which the previous Government fail to do . police what step her Department be take to increase public trust and confidence in police . what step her Department be take to increase public trust and confidence in police . what step she be take to monitor and maintain standard of police conduct . restore confidence in policing be one of the core aim of the Government ' s safe street mission . that mean ensure robust response to the crime that devastate life and corrode our community . we be also committed to improve police standard , and will announce step to strengthen the police misconduct and vetting system shortly . it be almost two year since Warwickshire police issue a community protection notice against Warwickshire hunt . eight month later , it be mysteriously replace by a secret protocol . the police and crime commissioner , who receive financial support from the Countryside Alliance , claim that he know nothing of the protocol . the chief constable refuse to give I a copy and now she have resign , claim retirement . trust in the PCC and the leadership of Warwickshire police have be seriously damage . will the Minister meet I to discuss the need for a truly independent inquiry , as oppose to the sham one be undertake by the PCC ? I thank my hon . friend and as a local to Warwickshire I take a keen interest in those matter myself . of course , I will meet he , along with the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . it be vital that the public can trust that those who police we , and who be in charge of our police , be hold to account as everybody else should be . despite town and city council in Cornwall employ street ranger and antisocial behaviour officer and have ShopWatch radio fund from their precept or business improvement district , shop manager still struggle with shoplifting and ASB . the record under our conservative PCC on answer and respond to 101 call be poor , and those crime be chronically under - report . shop worker feel powerless and there be a desperate need for more neighbourhood police . can the Minister explain how trust in police and the rule of law will be restore to retail staff and shop manager ? as the Home Secretary lay out , extra neighbourhood policing be important not just because we need more police on our street , but because when our constituent — shop worker and those who own business — call the police , if they get no response confidence drop . the neighbourhood police that there will be across the country , include in Cornwall , will help with confidence , not just with crime . I thank the Minister for her answer . we have see a toxic culture in some police service , include WhatsApp message that be racist , homophobic and sexist , display deep prejudice . will she clarify when the multiple recommendation from the Home Office review into the process of police officer dismissal will be action , include change the law so that those who fail re - vetting can be more simply dismiss ? I could not agree more that we need to strengthen this area , with woman especially feel less confidence over the last few year . we will announce in due course — I promise the hon . Lady that we be work on this at pace — how we be go to ensure that police conduct and vetting system be fit for purpose , to bring back some of the trust that have be lose . although I welcome the Home Secretary ' s response on antisocial behaviour involve e - scooter and bike , I wish to reiterate the concern of my resident in Blackburn . will she consider not only additional power for the police but civil power for local authority to combat hotspot area before somebody be seriously hurt ? as the Home Secretary outline on neighbourhood policing , we will bring in respect order to ensure that antisocial behaviour in particular area be target in a way that it simply have not be in recent year . I call the shadow Home Secretary . the operational independence of the police go to the heart of public confidence in policing . as Foreign Secretary , I see where political interference in policing be rife , and that be not a direction that the UK should travel in , so do the Home Secretary believe that it be right for minister to overrule the threat assessment of the police and security service , do she believe that some free concert ticket be the appropriate price for scrap police independence , and after the appalling result of recent negotiation with the British Medical Association , the RMT and Mauritius , have she consider recruit Taylor Swift ' s mum as a Government negotiator ? as it fall to I to answer this , let I say that the right hon . Gentleman know fine well that operational decision for police fall to the police , in this situation and in every other . I would certainly welcome it if Taylor Swift ' s mother stand for the leadership of the conservative party ; she would really offer something that be not currently available . the substantive question be about confidence . the confidence of woman in policing , and its ability to keep woman in our country secure , dive under the previous government , so confidence definitely need to be restore . that do not answer the question at all . order . we do not want squabble afterwards . I call James Cleverly to ask his second question . when I be Home Secretary , on numerous occasion I have to deal with foreign VIPs demand , or request , a level of protection that we do not feel be appropriate . do the Home Secretary recognise the difficult position that she have put her own Foreign Secretary in when such future request come in and they have to be deny , as those individual will pray in aid the protection package put in place for a rockstar ? I remind the right hon . Gentleman and the House that concert be cancel in Vienna because of a terror threat that the CIA identify could harm ten of thousand of people . I sit in this very Chamber last week in front of Figen Murray — the mother of Martyn , who be kill at an event in Manchester . the idea that we should not take that security seriously be , I be afraid , something that I simply do not agree with . Violent Crime : young People what step her Department be take to help prevent young people from become involve in violent crime . Knife crime take far too many young life in this country , so the Government have set a mission — not just for the Government but for police and local community right across the country — to halve knife crime over the next decade . as part of that , we have already implement the ban on zombie knife and zombie - style machete , and we will now act quickly to ban ninja sword follow the campaigning by Pooja Kanda after the death of her son . I thank the Home Secretary for that reply on knife crime . I welcome the Government ' s commitment in the Young Futures programme to prevent young people from be draw into crime . a number of gang - associate girl be draw into crime , and although rape and sexual exploitation be such a traumatising experience , many of those young girl do not see themselves as victim . fantastic organisation such as Abianda and Milk Honey Bees work to support woman . will the Department consider provide tailor support for young woman through the Young Futures programme ? my hon . friend make an important point . I know that she have champion that issue over many year . the Young Futures programme will include youth hub to draw together service around young people — I use the concept of a teenage sure Start to bring young people ' s service together . we also need youth prevention programme across all area . she be right to highlight that this must be about young girl as well as young boy to ensure that we tackle the threat to young people ' s safety from violent crime . help young people to stay safe , and to have somewhere to go and , crucially , someone to talk to , be key to their transition in life , particularly to prevent they from be draw into antisocial behaviour , retail crime and knife or gang - relate crime . could the Home Secretary confirm that , through devolution , there will be continue support for police and crime commissioner , such as Katie Bourne in Sussex , who can provide a direct link between resident ' concern about their young people and work with local police to take preventive measure ? Police and crime commissioner have a crucial role to play as part of the mission to reduce serious violence , as do local authority . the hon . Lady be right that local partnership will well be able to target young people who be at great risk , and ensure that proper prevention programme be in place . as we know , many of those service have be hollow out over a long period , and it be important that we have partnership work to rebuild they . I hope that we can work cross - party on that — not just with police and crime commissioner but with mps across the country . police of Protests if she will commission an independent review into the adequacy of legislation on the policing of protest . like my hon . friend , the Government value the role of peaceful protest as part of our proud democratic tradition . the Government regularly review the adequacy of exist legislation . the right to protest , and the courage of people take to the street to demand change , have give we many of our cherished social advancement — from the suffragette demand vote for woman to the Race Relations Act 1965 — but the sheer number of power to restrict protest be result in peaceful protester be arrest and sentence to lengthy period in prison . the previous Government push through a range of such law despite opposition from senior policing figure and from member across all party . when will a comprehensive review of the state of protest take place , with a view to repeal power that unnecessarily restrict the right to peaceful protest ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important issue . as she know , there will be post - legislative scrutiny of the legislation pass by the previous Government . as the previous Government agree , it will be consider in due course . recent footage of metropolitan police officer say that the description of Hezbollah as a terror group be a matter of " opinion " be alarming . the officer in question be deploy to a march in central London where support for Hezbollah be openly display , yet many offender be only identify by photo on social medium after the event . will the Minister ensure that all officer be fully brief on the proscribe status of Hezbollah , Hamas and other terrorist organisation , so that offender be arrest on the spot , and not allow to spew antisemitic hate on our street ? we be all clear that Hezbollah be a proscribe organisation . the police take great care when they police protest ; there be a great deal of briefing for officer beforehand . however , the way that those protest be police be operationally independent . I have be to see and talk to officer who be on the frontline at those protest , and I know that it be a difficult job . we should all say a big " thank you " for the work that they do . there have be many protest over the last 12 month that the police have deal with , and many officer have have rest day cancel to ensure adequate policing on our street . Southwark police officer recently tell Bermondsey safety action group that they struggle to prevent or solve crime due to extraction duty , when they have to police repeat protest elsewhere in London . do the Minister believe that the Met need new power to refuse permission for some repetitive protest in the capital , or should it use exist power well to resolve and reduce extraction duty and increase safety in my community ? police number be an issue , which be why this Government be clear about recruit more neighbourhood police officer to increase that presence on our street . I recognise that what my hon . friend have say about extraction be an issue for the Metropolitan police in particular when deal with protest . clearly , we want all criminal to be deal with by the police , and we need sufficient number of police officer to do that . although we respect and would protect the right to peaceful protest , antisemitic and islamophobic offence have be report at many recent protest . those have contribute to an astonishing and shock 25 % increase in religiously aggravate hate crime in this country , as be reveal last week . the Community Security Trust report an almost 500 % rise in antisemitic incident , and tell MAMA have record the high ever number of anti - muslim incident . can the Minister reassure we on what the Government will do to help the police continue to keep community safe , and police protest in a way that do that ? the figure that the hon . Lady set out be shocking . this Government be clear that there be no place in our society for antisemitism or Islamophobia . there be already meeting about how we can tackle that rise . it be shocking and it will not be tolerate . in some recent protest , the police have clearly have a difficult job to do , but I commend their work to tackle antisemitism and Islamophobia . we know that the police take their responsibility seriously and that they do so without fear or favour . Police funding : havere if she will increase funding for police in the London borough of Havering . the Government be of course commit to ensure that the police have the resource that they need to tackle crime effectively . as I be sure the hon . Gentleman know , fund beyond this year , include for the Metropolitan Police Service , will be confirm follow the upcoming multi - year spending review . give the increase pressure on the police service , do the Minister accept that officer morale , retention , recruitment and ability to solve crime be severely compromise , with police officer overwork , underpaid and subject to unprecedented rise in bureaucratic process — often deal with thing that police do not traditionally deal with , such as mental health care and social work ? [ interruption . ] will the Minister explain how the Government plan to address those critical issue , especially in term of improve officer retention , recruitment , crime - solve capacity and the overwhelming level of bureaucracy , so that constituent in Romford can feel safe in their own town again ? [ interruption . ] order . Mr Rosindell , you should know well . I do not cough twice for my own benefit — it be mean to be for yours . the hon . Gentleman be a very experienced Member of this House . he have support 14 year of conservative government that have leave we come into government with a criminal justice system , include police , that be in grave difficulty . I take the point that he raise , but he need to recognise the role that he and his party have play in get we to this point . our aim now be to recruit more police officer , as the Home Secretary have say , and to increase neighbourhood policing as the bedrock of police in this country . we all want to see more funding for our police in Havering and Hackney and across London , but a reduction in crime would also help they . what conversation be minister have with mobile phone manufacturer to try to drive down phone snatch by people on bike and reduce such street crime , which be really grow in London ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . those conversation be ongoing ; later this month , conversation will take place on what more can be do to ensure that the manufacturer take their responsibility seriously and do everything they can to stop the trade in part , which be a particular issue with mobile phone . Safe Countries for Removal : LGBT right if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of remove Georgia from her Department ' s list of safe country for removal , in the context of the recent passage of legislation on LGBT right in that country . Mr Speaker , I suspect I might be cough almost as much as you , but for a completely different reason . we constantly update our assessment of LGBT right and other factor affect the safety of different country , work closely with the Foreign Office and inform by regular independent report from the chief inspector of border and immigration . the late update for Georgia be publish last month and be available on the gov . uk website . the safe state designation that the previous Government introduce be intend to allow Georgian and indian national to be return without any individualised assessment of the safety of the country for each person . in both country , persecution of certain minority be on the rise ; that make their inclusion on the list particularly wrong , but also highlight the wide danger of blanket inadmissibility of asylum claim base on nationality . what step will the Government take to ensure that individual ' asylum claim be always properly assess ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue and bring her concern — concern that I share — to the attention of the House . we regularly monitor and review the situation in country of origin , work closely with the Foreign Office , and our result country policy and information note be publish on the gov . uk website . should we assess that the troubling new law to which my hon . friend refer , or any other change , fundamentally affect the justification for Georgia ' s designation , we will seek to remove it from the list , use the correct parliamentary process . in Georgia in particular , but also in other country , there be an evidential base to prove that the persecution of Christians and ethnic minority and other human right abuse be take place . it be also important that LGBT right issue be engage with . have the Minister have the opportunity to address those issue directly with Georgia ' s government ? address such issue be more of a Foreign Office responsibility , which be why we liaise closely with the Foreign Office when consider the production of information note . if law that be pass and put into effect in other country lead to persecution or a well - found fear of persecution for individual , that be one of the context we use to make a decision . that include LGBT right , but also other right . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . organised immigration crime put life at risk and threaten our border security . we have agree a new anti - smuggling action plan with our G7 partner to strengthen collaboration in area such as intelligence , information exchange and the pursuit of criminal finance . the UK work will be lead by the new border security command . as evidence of our close collaboration with other country , this weekend , at the request of the french authority , a Border Force vessel rescue 46 people and return they to France . accord to research by UK Feminista , over a third of female school pupil have be sexually harass while at school . much of this can be trace back to misogynistic online influencer and the harmful impact of pornography . will the Home Secretary tell the House what she be do to prioritise woman ' s online safety and how she be engage with counterpart in the devolved administration to ensure that no woman or girl be leave behind when it come to end sexual harassment and the exploitation of woman ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point . the mission for safe street that the Government have set include a really ambitious mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . we know that that be immensely difficult , and I hope that all the devolve administration , as well as local community and organisation , will want to be part of it . my hon . friend be right to prioritise woman ' s online safety , and that be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be prioritise action on online deepfake abuse . we now come to the shadow Home Secretary . in her statement to the House on 29 July , the Chancellor say that asylum accommodation cost be draw down from Treasury reserve be " unfunded and undisclosed " — a description that I reject . can the Home Secretary now confirm to the House that asylum accommodation cost will be disclose and , more importantly , fund from her departmental budget , and that she will not be draw down from Treasury reserve to pay for asylum accommodation cost ? will she reject the Chancellor ' s description and say that she will fund those cost in the same way that I do ? the former Home Secretary — the current shadow Home Secretary — now seem to be admit to the totally chaotic state of asylum accommodation finance . he have to continually seek last - minute reserve claim , because his Government have underfunde the asylum accommodation problem that they have cause by let the asylum backlog soar . as a result , the taxpayer end up foot the bill . this government will be make saving from asylum accommodation by get the system back in order . I know that the right hon . Member have be kick out of the Tory party leadership contest because he can not count . order . I say to the Home Secretary that I expect short answer . these be topical . if there be question where she want to go long , she should do so early . otherwise , it be not fair to the Back Benchers I represent on both side of the House . we will now be stay here long than she probably expect . James Cleverly , let we have a good example of a short topical . will she be draw down from Treasury reserve — yes or no ? this Government have already be put in place the funding to try to make good the total chaos that the right hon . member ' s Government leave we with . they spend £ 700 million to send four volunteer to Rwanda — and how much do he spend on a flight ? refugee woman and girl , who be often already survivor of gender - base violence , be at significant risk of abuse , coercion and bad when house in hotel pende the processing of their application , as I know the Home Secretary be aware from her substantial work on the issue . will she please update the House on what step the Department be take to end the use of hotel accommodation for woman and girl ? my hon . friend be right that we have an extensive challenge with the backlog , which mean that very expensive hotel be too often use as asylum accommodation . we need to clear the backlog and ensure that we end hotel use , but that also mean address the serious challenge around violence against woman and girl . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this be Black History Month , and we honour the Windrush generation , who be let down shamefully by the previous Conservative Government — first by the appalling windrush scandal itself , but then by their failure to fully implement the Williams review and the compensation scheme . the parliamentary ombudsman have now find that the Home Office be wrongly deny compensation payment , so will the Home Secretary commit to urgently appoint a Windrush commissioner , as she promise back in June , to lead on right these wrong ? we will be appoint a Windrush commissioner . this be something I feel strongly about . the hon . Member will know that as the Select Committee Chair , I ask many question about the Windrush scandal . it be a stain not just on the Home Office , but on the british state , and it be important we right those wrong . in 14 year of Tory government , police number be decimate across our country , include in my constituency . Durham constabulary lose 408 officer , a third of its strength . what step will the Government take to put police officer back on our street ? as have be say a number of time this afternoon , the neighbourhood police guarantee mean 13 , 000 police officer , pcso and special back on our street to keep we all safe , after the reduction in police officer number of , I think , over 20 , 000 by the conservative party . the recent London stalk review publish by the London victim ' commissioner reveal some pretty alarming statistic : in our capital , 45 % of stalk victim feel compel to withdraw from the justice system and 41 % say that no action be take on their complaint by police . what specific measure be be take to well support victim of stalk ? be there plan to offer specific training to officer to deal with these case ? we be absolutely look at how we can strengthen stalk protection order . we will look at our stalk law in the round , but also at how police handle all case of violence against woman and girl and at the training that will be need . after 14 year of conservative government , we hardly see police officer on the beat across my constituency . night policing cover in Uttoxeter and rural area be virtually non - existent . what step will the Minister take to put more officer on the beat , and what be the timeline for that ? again , there be the neighbourhood policing guarantee and , importantly for my hon . friend , there will be a name police officer in the community so people know who to go to when they need assistance . that work be happen now and we be keen to see the first officer in place in the next few month . in Rural Crime Action Week , do the Secretary of State agree that in Bedfordshire , where we have major urban area such as Bedford and Luton border by rural community , it be important that the funding formula be review so that equal attention can be pay to tackle crime in our rural village and town ? I gently remind the hon . member that his party ' s Government fail to review the funding formula for very many year . however , he be right that the issue of rural and urban area be immensely important , which be why we have commit to a rural crime action plan . I agree with the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) . despite the previous Government ' s promise to reform funding settlement , as usual they fail to deliver . do the Secretary of State agree that we must review the current situation , reform the police funding formula and finally deliver fairer funding for local people ? as part of the spending review , we want to consider police funding in the round , include how police funding be allocate to force . the sector , include the Association of Police and Crime Commissioners and the National Police Chiefs ' Council , be engage in the process . the Home Secretary be benefit from some of the measure on legal route for migration bring in by my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) when he be in government , which have cause the number of people able to come to the UK to halve . what further measure have she take to ensure that legal migration be cut far ? the Government be commit to bring down legal migration . we will do so by make sure that british worker be upskille in key sector , with new requirement for employer to address skill shortage , and by introduce new training and workforce plan so that overseas recruitment do not remain the default for fill skill shortage in the UK . I have listen in absolute amazement to the outrage from Opposition Members about the careful consideration of security for Taylor Swift ' s concert in London , a week after her Vienna tour be cancel due to a terror plot . do the Home Secretary think that be cynical opportunism from Conservative Members , or have they lose all sense of reason ? I think it be a matter for we all to take the security of people immensely seriously , and to ensure that terrorist , extremist and criminal threat do not win in their attempt to pose threat not just to life , but to our way of life . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker , and I thank the House for put its confidence in I to chair the Home Affairs Committee . I look forward to work constructively with the Department on home affair matter . in that vein , may I welcome the news that the Government will recruit 200 new personnel to process modern slavery claim ? can the Secretary of State confirm whether those personnel be new head count , how long the training will take , and whether she be confident that the head count will survive the forthcoming Budget and spending review ? I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her new position . it be a great job , and I look forward to give evidence to she as she do to I — we will see what price I have to pay as the role be reverse . she ask an important point about modern slavery number . we be recruit additional member of staff , and I will happily provide she with more information about that crucial policy area . part 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 impose unnecessary obligation on the police , and require they to redact personal datum for information transfer to the Crown Prosecution Service . those obligation delay and obstruct the swift progress of the criminal justice system . the Police Federation of England and Wales have propose a new clause that , if introduce , would facilitate the free flow of personal datum between the police and the CPS . will Ministers urgently look at reform that unnecessary red tape to allow more police time on the street in my constituency of South Ribble ? that be an important point , and we be actively explore all way that we can improve guidance around redaction , streamline current process , make well use of technology , and ultimately reduce unnecessary burden on the police and prosecutor , so that they can get on with their primary task of keep the public safe and put away criminal . the Home Secretary tell the House that by end the retrospective element of the duty to remove she be save £ 7 billion in 10 year . the impact assessment assume that all those subject to the duty would have remain in Britain at a cost to the Home Office , but in his letter to I her permanent secretary say that the sum include the cost of send the same migrant to Rwanda . I write to the Home Secretary about that on 1 September and I have raise it with the Minister for Immigration in Westminster Hall , but I have not have an answer . can she explain that double counting , and if she can not , will she apologise for use that statistic in the House of Commons ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the impact assessment be provide by the Home Office , and what we inherit from the previous Government be not simply the incredibly costly Rwanda programme , but also the retrospective element of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which be so damaging that the shadow Home Secretary , when he be in the job , do not implement many of the measure . that retrospective element have cost the Home Office hundred of million of pound , and those cost would go forward into the future . we want to support genuine refugee , but will the Home Secretary provide an update on the progress on return and deportation of illegal migrant , and say how the new command arrangement improve on the arrangement of the previous Government ? my hon . friend make an important point . to tackle the chaos in the asylum system the rule need to be properly respect and enforce . that be why we have increase by more than 20 % the enforce return over the summer of those who have no right to be here . we have also increase the number of charter flight , include the big ever charter flight return . give that the turnout for the Devon and Cornwall police and crime commissioner election in May be just 18 % , will the Minister look to scrap that role and instead invest that money in proper community police in rural constituency such as mine of North Cornwall ? the Government have no plan to scrap the role of police and crime commissioner . we think it be a valuable role that can enable the mission that this Government have set out to be enact locally , include the safe street mission . we need to work with the pcc to make sure that mission happen in the different force area around the country . PCCs also have a role to play with their other partner , local authority and the voluntary sector . noisy off - road bike speed around neighbourhood such as Chapeltown in my constituency , deliberately disturb and intimidate resident . will the Home Secretary commit to properly tackle off - road bike by give the police the right power to crack down on this issue ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I thank she for stand up for her community . we want to strengthen the law to give the police more power to tackle the nightmare of dangerous off - road bike . when last year the now Home Secretary call on the then Conservative Government to use counter - terror legislation to proscribe organisation such as the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , she will remember that I support she publicly . since then , Iran and the irgc have get even more dangerous . have she change her mind , and if so , why ? I have huge respect for the right hon . Gentleman , but I gently point out that he be ask the Government to do something that the previous Government do not do in 14 year . I can say to he that we be lead work on counter iranian state threat , make use of the full breadth and expertise of our intelligence service and law enforcement agency . we keep the list of proscribe organisation under very close review . I can assure he that work continue apace to identify further way to tackle the threat . UK university have experience a fivefold increase in antisemitic incident since the 7 October terrorist attack . at a recent meeting of the Union of jewish Students , I hear distressing example of the iranian regime organise on our campus and stir up hatred against jewish student . can the Minister tell the House what step the Department be take to deal with the threat pose by Tehran here on british soil ? we have be clear that the behaviour of the iranian regime , include the action of the irgc , pose a threat to the safety and security of the UK and our ally . the Government continually assess threat to the UK and take the protection of individual ’ right , freedom and safety incredibly seriously , wherever those threat may originate . in 2023 , the Home Office commission the Fairfield review into the Independent Office for Police Conduct . it deem the delay in the IOPC as " unacceptable " . indeed , one of my constituent have be wait a year after the death of her daughter to have a case officer assign . do the Home Secretary agree with the review , and will she comment on when she will implement its 93 recommendation ? I have meet the IOPC chair to talk through the issue face that body . the hon . Gentleman be right that we need to speed up the decision - make process . he will also recognise that there be considerable challenge in the system that we have inherit . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for make time for Back Benchers in the question today . I rise to raise the issue of car theft in my constituency . many hundred of resident have have their car steal , and the police do not have the capacity to follow up . next year , I be host a car theft summit in Chipping Barnet , and I invite the Minister to attend with I . I would be delighted to . after a bungle fraud investigation by Renault Cr é dit International , it , together with Renault - Nissan UK Ltd move to seize the asset of a business in my constituency , Mackie Motors Brechin Ltd . this cost my constituent half a million pound and 25 % of his order book value . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the fine point of this clearly very dubious act by a UK bank ? I be concerned to hear about the case that the hon . Gentleman raise , and I would be happy to meet he to discuss it far . I put on record my gratitude to the Home Secretary and her team for release the Home Office commission report , " the Historical root of the Windrush Scandal " , which conclude that 30 year of racist immigration legislation cause the Windrush scandal . those now on the Opposition Benches spend three year try to suppress that report . will the Home Secretary meet I , other mps and civil society representative to discuss its recommendation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . it be a shocking report , and one that the previous Government refuse to publish . I would be very happy to meet he and other hon . member to discuss it . do the Home Secretary share my deep concern about two - tier justice , give that some people who say some bad , stupid thing on social medium can be arrest , charge and jail within a matter of week , but some people who brutally and violently assault police officer have not even be charge many month later ? the hon . Member will know that in this country we have operational independence for the police , and independence for the Crown Prosecution Service and the court . I strongly support police officer , who have face case of the most disgraceful violence and attack . it be important that we support our police in the face of those attack and ensure that they have the whole community behind they . the Home Secretary may be aware of the datum that the Internet Watch Foundation release last week on the increase amount of AI - generate child sexual abuse content available to everyone on the internet , find that it have increase in the last six month alone . that be clearly illegal , so what be the UK Government do to stamp down on that horrific crime ? let I make it clear that the new Government intend very swiftly to set up new taskforce to ensure that across Departments — in this case , with our counterpart in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology — we do everything we can to end the scourge of online child abuse , and child abuse not online . I call Jim Shannon — or be you not stand ? I be always stand , Mr Speaker . what effort have be take in school to show the opportunity available in the police force , to enhance career opportunity for young people ? I ' ll be watch you ! it be always a pleasure to answer the hon . Gentleman . that work will be ongoing . we want to recruit from the wide possible group in our community , and to encourage young people to think about a career in police . St Helena : UK Immigration ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if he will make a statement on the new immigration arrangement between the UK Government and St Helena . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I have be ask to reply as the Minister for the Overseas Territories . I know that these be issue of keen interest to you , Mr Speaker . the House be aware that a political agreement have be reach with Mauritius about the long - term future of the British Indian Ocean Territory . once any treaty with Mauritius come into force , follow its proper parliamentary scrutiny , Mauritius will be responsible for any migrant who arrive there . however , we need to find an interim contingency solution for the period before that agreement come into force . give that there be no permanent population , BIOT have never be an appropriate long - term location for migrant due to the logistical challenge of provide appropriate care in such a remote place without civilian infrastructure . on 15 October , a new memorandum of understanding be reach with the Government of St Helena so that any new migrant arrive in the interim period will be transfer to St Helena . the intention be for that agreement to last until the treaty with Mauritius come into force , recall that , in practice , no new migrant have arrive on Diego Garcia since 2022 . we be hugely grateful to the St Helena Government for their assistance . their Chief Minister have say : " this arrangement present a unique opportunity for a british Overseas Territory to be in a position to assist the UK , and we be pleased to be able to work in close partnership with the UK Government towards a mutually beneficial solution . " the UK Government have agree to provide one - off funding of £ 6 . 65 million to St Helena to improve health and education outcome , and upgrade government infrastructure . this be consistent with our long - term support to the community in St Helena , which be of course crucial . this be a long - term , consistent partnership . we will support St Helena by provide technical support , and fund the transfer and subsistence cost for any migrant affect . of course , this be not the first time that St Helena have support the wide UK family . the agreement be testament to its integral place in our family . we thank it for its support . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . I must say that I be disappointed that , once again , the Government have choose to make an important announcement outside this House , not within it , as they should . follow on from the Government ' s shameful decision to fast - track and capitulate on negotiation to hand over the British Indian Ocean Territory to Mauritius , it be clear that the policy announce over the weekend be a rush consequence of a deal that do not serve british taxpayer well . this aspect of the deal have not be properly scrutinise by this House , and there have be no announcement on how we will scrutinise the wide issue of the transfer of sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory to another country . during the treaty negotiation , be this plan discuss ? if the Government be so keen on sign away sovereignty , why be it not part of the deal that Mauritius would take responsibility for illegal migrant and take they to Mauritius from day one ? be Chagossians consult on the plan ? the Foreign Secretary say that they be update throughout , but parliamentary question have reveal that not to be the case . finally , how much will the deal cost , and what Department will be responsible ? will there be a drawdown of Treasury fund , or will the money come from Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office budget ? will the cost be add to the overall cost estimate for the sovereignty deal with Mauritius ? do this plan signify a change of heart on the policy of offshore as a whole ? before Labour mp stand up to espouse the deal and say how good it be , they should remind themselves that in the election campaign , they write in their leaflet that the offshoring of british citizen be immoral . do this plan represent a change of policy from this Government ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman have take that tone . I set out very clearly in my statement the answer to a number of point that he raise . matter have also be set out very clearly by the St Helena Government . they have indicate their full agreement . in fact , they be fully part of the process and there be full consultation with they . this be a mutually beneficial win - win for the UK Government and St Helena . as I say , the Chief Minister of St Helena have say that it be in a unique position to help the UK Government , and this will strengthen its reputation and enhance its partnership with the british family . the hon . Gentleman ask a lot of question about the arrangement with Mauritius . the Foreign Secretary speak at great length about the arrangement with BIOT recently . the agreement will go through this House in the proper way , as have be set out , and will face proper parliamentary scrutiny . I be sure that it will attract scrutiny , and that be only right . as I explain , this be a contingency agreement for the period before any agreement with Mauritius come into place ; after that , it will take any migrant . the situation on BIOT be not suitable , long term , for migrant . we have explain that at great length . I have to say that the Government inherit a mess , and we be take pragmatic , sensible and proactive measure to address the situation . I be hugely grateful to St Helena for the role it be play . this be a mutually beneficial win - win . the hon . Gentleman ask where the fund will come from . they will come from the fcdo . we already have a long - term establish partnership with St Helena , and it have hugely welcome this plan . it will help it to deal with a number of ongoing issue . I have set out the detail fully . the full detail of the agreement be also available from the St Helena Government . it be welcome to hear St Helena mention in the House . the money go there amount to an increase of about 20 % in financial aid from the UK this year , which be sorely need in a community that be so challenge ; but will the Minister explain how he will convey people from BIOT to St Helena , give the travel difficulty , and tell we what conversation he have have with the Chief Minister and her Ministers about where these people will be accommodate , if they do arrive ? I thank my hon . friend for her interest in St Helena , which have be long - stand . I understand that she visit the island recently , and I welcome she ongoing engagement with the people and the Government there . we have make it clear that we would support the transfer of anyone who do arrive , but let I reiterate that no one have actually arrive on BIOT since 2022 . this be a contingency measure only , and , of course , it be not a safe place for people to attempt to go to . this be about close that route and ensure that if anyone do make that attempt , they could go to a safe place and be properly support . the St Helena Government have make clear how they would accommodate and integrate people in that community . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) for raise this important matter . the whole House will welcome the Government ' s sudden conversion to offshore , even though this plan be not announce in the House in accordance with your specific instruction , Mr Speaker . I may be one of the only Members to have have the privilege of visit St Helena , along with the hon . member for Hackney North and Shoreditch — I have . and you , of course , Mr Speaker . we may have be the only Members to survey the island ' s new airport , which will in time relieve the british taxpayer of cost and open up the island to a very bright future , with connectivity massively enhance . while I be in St Helena , I meet the oldest mammal on the planet , bear a few year after Napoleon ' s death : Jonathan the tortoise . I also visit the island ' s impressive hospital , which provide very good healthcare but be a small facility whose function have be specifically tailor to serve the commensurately small community of St Helena . the cohort of people who might arrive from Diego Garcia be likely to have medical need — indeed , as experience show , quite complex medical need . that will place additional pressure on St Helena ' s healthcare infrastructure . what will the Minister do to help St Helena with that ? there be some disquiet among resident of St Helena at the thought that an influx of migrant could have an adverse impact on social cohesion and social provision in this very tightly knit community . what be the estimate number of migrant who will be send there ? bear in mind that the entire population be less than 5 , 000 , will the Minister impose a limit — admittedly low , but nevertheless a limit ? have he make an assessment of how much this transfer policy will cost the british taxpayer ? of course , Conservative Members do not oppose the principle of offshore , but we be perplex by the Government ' s choice of destination , a small british overseas territory thousand of mile from Diego Garcia , not least because a number of asylum seeker who land on the British Indian Ocean Territory have already be transfer to Rwanda . Labour have of course scrap the Rwanda scheme , so can the Minister tell the House whether the Government ' s approach have change , and whether they welcome offshore as a means of inject deterrence into the complexity of illegal migration ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment and question . he have always take a keen interest in the overseas territory , and St Helena in particular . I be surprised that he be perplexed , because he and his fellow Ministers be grapple with these very decision and issue in the last government . we be provide pragmatic and practical solution to respond to the situation that we inherit . there be no comparison with the Rwanda scheme . he will have just hear the Home Secretary say that spend £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money result in four volunteer for that scheme . this be a mutually beneficial win - win agreement between the United Kingdom and one of our overseas territory . I have set out the cost very clearly : £ 6 . 65 million for the contingency arrangement , and then the cost for anyone who do arrive . let I reiterate , however , that no migrant have arrive on BIOT since 2022 . this be a contingency arrangement that be absolutely necessary , but of course we hope that no one will choose to take such a dangerous route . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the healthcare position . that be exactly why St Helena be a more suitable location for any theoretical migrant to be relocate to ; facility on that level do not exist on BIOT . he mention that there be allegedly disquiet in St Helena , but that be simply not the case . I read out very clearly what the St Helena Government and Chief Minister have say , and there be huge benefit to this plan . St Helena be a wonderful place . I have not have a chance to visit it , but I have have a chance to experience its culture , food and people , and I look forward to welcome the Chief Minister to the Joint Ministerial Council in due course . I be interested to hear how offshoring be be rebrande ; the Rwanda scheme be a huge failure . do the Minister agree that any comparison between this plan and the Rwanda scheme be rubbish ? the latter cost £ 700 million and result in four volunteer be send to Rwanda . this be a far well scheme . my hon . friend make the point himself in his question : this be a mutually beneficial , win - win agreement between we and St Helena , whereas the other scheme cost £ 700 million and send four volunteer to Rwanda . there be no comparison . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats have already put on the record our concern about the deal that be strike with Mauritius and how it exclude the voice of Chagossians . we also have concern about the term of the agreement . what will happen to the individual who have be move to St Helena after 18 month elapse ? we can not just abandon they . will the Minister update the House on what will happen if an agreement with Mauritius have not be reach by the end of the 18 - month period ? can the Minister also update the House on the asylum seeker who have be detain on Diego Garcia , such as the 60 Sri Lankan Tamils ? they be not in the scope of the agreement . will the Government support those individual in claim asylum where they need it ? finally , it have be report today that there be an investigation under way into a major hack of the british high commission ' s phone during the Chagos island talk . what action be the Government take to address this potentially major security breach ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as I say , the Foreign Secretary answer question about the agreement with Mauritius on BIOT early , but the hon . Gentleman ask for further detail of the arrangement with St Helena . under the arrangement , if any migrant arrive on BIOT in the future , they will be transfer to St Helena . they will remain free to depart , and to return to their country of origin , but they will not be able to stay on BIOT . St Helena would take responsibility for accommodate those individual and , if appropriate , process asylum claim . the hon . Gentleman mention exist migrant on the island . they be not include in this arrangement , and we continue to work at pace to find long - term , durable solution . I will not go into the detail ; that would be inappropriate , give the legal complexity around the small group of individual who be there . on his point about the medium coverage of allege hack , those be subject to an ongoing police investigation in Mauritius , so I do not want to comment , but my understanding be that the allegation be historical , rather than relate to the recent negotiation period . I really welcome the statement , and the clarity that have come with it . who will ultimately be responsible for people when they find themselves in St Helena ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . fundamentally , as a result of this agreement , St Helena have agree to take responsibility for any theoretical migrant who arrive , but I draw he back to what I say early : Mauritius would take responsibility for any migrant who arrive after the agreement of the treaty , which we will seek to finalise follow parliamentary scrutiny . the Minister really should understand that the british overseas territory be self - govern democracy , and they must make decision about their own island ' governance . have the Legislative Council of St Helena vote in favour of this agreement ? have the people of St Helena be consult ? what impact will the influx of people potentially have on this small island territory of only 4 , 500 people , and will the agreement have any impact on Tristan da Cunha and Ascension Island , which , as the Minister know , form part of the overall british overseas territory ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; I know he take a very keen interest in this matter . we have discuss the overseas territory on many occasion , and he know how seriously I take their democracy and autonomy . that be why it be important to reiterate to the House that this agreement be freely enter into by the Government of St Helena . they have publicly welcome it profusely and explain why it be beneficial . obviously , they be responsible for their internal process within St Helena . we will continue to work with the Government of St Helena , their representative and , indeed , their Attorney General as we move forward with the agreement . if I may , I will come back to the hon . gentleman on the point he raise about Tristan da Cunha and Ascension , but the agreement be primarily about St Helena because of the facility that be available there . do the Minister agree that the UK ' s new agreement with Mauritius will close a potentially dangerous illegal migrant route ? my hon . friend be right : BIOT be not a suitable place for migrant to be present . there be no permanent population and there be not the necessary education and health facility . that be why we need to put in place that part of our agreement with Mauritius : to ensure that during the interim , contingency period , be any migrant to arrive — as I say , none have arrive since 2022 — they could go to a place where there be hospital , education , and an economy and a community to support they . we thank St Helena for its help in this matter . I call the Father of the House . if it be possible legally to deport illegal migrant from Diego Garcia to St Helena , be there any legal reason why we can not deport illegal migrant land on these shore to St Helena or any other overseas territory ? be it , as a former Home Secretary tell I recently , because after five year they would acquire right to british citizenship ? we be absolutely confident that this agreement be compliant with international law , and we will be work closely with the Attorney General of St Helena to ensure that it be compliant with our law , with St Helena law and with all our international obligation . do the Minister agree that the Government inherit a deeply troubling and complex situation for any migrant involve that the last Government fail to resolve over a number of year , and that we have now take the decisive action need to find a solution to this problem ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I have set out , we inherit a mess , quite frankly , on some of these issue and we be take the pragmatic , practical step to ensure that we have agreement that meet the need go forward . I accept what the Minister say — that there have be no immigration arrival since 2022 — but do he accept in turn that there be a danger of create a pull factor ? if that happen , and a much large number arrive than expect , will he put a cap on the number that can be transfer to St Helena ? that be exactly why we have conclude these agreement with Mauritius and St Helena . BIOT be not a suitable place for migrant to be present ; there be no permanent population and there be no suitable facility . we be take these step to close down that route and ensure that people do not make that dangerous journey . can the Minister confirm that british sovereignty over the overseas territory be non - negotiable , and that the comment from Conservative Members be not only wrong but deeply irresponsible ? my hon . friend make an important point . I have repeatedly make it clear , not least in the Falklands and Gibraltar , that we stand by their sovereignty and self - determination and will defend they . indeed , that go for the british overseas territory family , and it be a commitment that I will be make in person when the leader join I at the Joint Ministerial Council in a few week ' time . since no migrant have arrive in BIOT since 2022 , and give that this agreement lapse after 18 month , what be the problem that the Minister be try to solve ? and give that Rwanda be apparently consider immoral and this be not , be he not simply offer an insult to Kigali ? absolutely not . this be prudent contingency planning . unfortunately , we inherit a situation from the previous Government where many hole have be leave in these very arrangement and where there be significant problem . we be now take step to pragmatically address that . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to St Helena . do the Minister agree that the comparison with the Rwanda scheme that have be make throughout this urgent question be irresponsible and unhelpful , give that it cost £ 700 million and send only four volunteer ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be no comparison with the £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money that be spend on four volunteer , as the Home Secretary just set out . this be a sensible , win - win , beneficial agreement that benefit both the United Kingdom and St Helena and involve potentially very few people . can the Minister explain why the application for refugee status make by people who have come to the British Indian Ocean Territory , as it be currently call , can not be process now ? why be he instead take they to St Helena ? will he guarantee that St Helena be not go to become an offshore base for Britain to evade its international human right obligation by simply send large number of refugee there in the future ? I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of St Helena . it be a wonderful place with wonderful people , and its Government have voluntarily enter this agreement . it be obviously a much more suitable place , be people theoretically to arrive , than BIOT , which be not suitable . I be very confident that all our process comply with international law . the opportunity available to any migrant be vastly great in Rwanda , aren ' t they ? why didn ' t they go there , then ? as my hon . Friend say , why didn ' t they go there ? I mean , four people for £ 700 million be an absurd comparison . we be take pragmatic step to address the situation we inherit from the previous Government , and there be no comparison to be make between the situation in Rwanda and the situation in St Helena . if illegal migrant arrive in St Helena be grant asylum , do that mean they can then apply to come to the UK ? if so , do that not create another market for people smuggler ? no , absolutely not . there be no automatic right for they to travel from St Helena to the UK . St Helena will undertake the processing of any case in a proper way . of course , anyone who fail to get a positive decision will be remove . St Helena will process they , but there be no automatic right to come to the UK . as with any overseas territory , people will be able to apply for british overseas territory citizenship after a period of time , but it be not automatic . the Minister have repeat several time this afternoon that no migrant have go to BIOT in the last two year . he studiously avoid answer my right hon . friend , the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s important question about how many migrant he be provide contingency for . in order to calculate the £ 6 . 5 million , he must know how many migrant be likely to go to St Helena — or not , as the case may be . will he now tell the House what that number be , and will he publish the full impact assessment ? like most people , I do not have a crystal ball . our expectation , base on the evidence , be that hopefully nobody will make that journey because it be dangerous and BIOT be not a suitable place for migrant . however , it be only right that we put contingency arrangement in place be anyone to do so before any treaty be conclude with Mauritius , which will then take responsibility for deal with any migrant arrival . the £ 6 . 65 million figure be for health and education . as part of the agreement with St Helena , any support for additional cost , be anyone to arrive , would be negotiate on a case - by - case basis . the Minister say this deal will cost taxpayer £ 6 . 65 million . will he now be transparent and tell the House how much UK taxpayer will pay to Mauritius so that we can continue to use Diego Garcia , which he give away ? the fact relate to the agreement with Mauritius will be set out in due course , follow proper parliamentary scrutiny . this be very specifically about the agreement with St Helena , and I have set out the amount of money and what it will be use for . will the Minister outline how the airbase ' s security will be well serve within this new management , consider the importance of vet anyone seek to enter a military base under regular circumstance , never mind in this situation ? what assurance do military personnel have that their safety be important to this Government ? I think the hon . Gentleman may be refer to Diego Garcia , which be obviously not a suitable place for migrant , for the reason he set out . we have ensure that we put the base on a secure , long - term footing , in the interest of the national security of the UK and our ally . that conclude the urgent question . as the House can see on the Order Paper , there be many Bills to be present today . in order to save time and get on with today ' s main business , for member present more than one consecutive Bill , I will accept private notice of the Second Reading date for those Bills . those date will be record and publish accordingly in Hansard and in the Votes and Proceedings . for member present individual Bills , they will name the date for second Reading as usual . Bills present Company Directors ( Duties ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Martin Wrigley present a Bill to amend section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 to require company director to balance their duty to promote the success of the company with duty in respect of the environment and the company ' s employee . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 32 ) . Military Action Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Foord present a Bill to require parliamentary approval for the deployment of UK armed force for armed conflict ; to provide for exemption from that requirement in case of emergency or in respect of compliance with treaty obligation ; to make provision for retrospective parliamentary approval in certain circumstance ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 33 ) . Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Shockat Adam , support by Jeremy Corbyn , Kim Johnson , Ayoub Khan , Iqbal Mohamed , Mr Adnan Hussain , Brendan o ' Hara , Si â n Berry , Liz Saville Roberts , Ian Byrne and Stephen Gethins , present a Bill to make provision in connection with the recognition of the State of Palestine . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 34 ) . Hospices and Health Care ( Report on Funding ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Luke Taylor present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for the funding of hospice clinical service by NHS England ; to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the potential merit of include pharmacy , pathology , patient community equipment , palliative consultant cost , clinical nurse specialist service , and advance care planning cost within the NHS funding framework ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 35 ) . Animal Welfare ( Responsibility for Dog on Dog Attacks ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Luke Evans present a Bill to require a person in charge of a dog to take all reasonable step to ensure that that dog do not fatally injure another dog ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 36 ) . devolution ( Immigration ) ( Scotland ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Stephen Gethins present a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to grant legislative competence to the Scottish Parliament in respect of immigration . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 37 ) . access to Telecommunications Networks Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to require provider of electronic communication network to grant other such provider access to their apparatus where that be necessary to ensure consistent network coverage ; to prevent those provider from charge more than the standard market rate for such access ; to require the regulator to impose penalty on provider who unreasonably fail to grant such access ; to make provision for the purpose of incentivise provider to allow customer of other provider to use their network where access can not be grant to their apparatus ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 38 ) . Homelessness Prevention Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Bob Blackman , support by Paula Barker , present a Bill to make provision about the duty of public body to prevent homelessness . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 39 ) . pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Greg Smith present a Bill to change the period of life expectancy relevant to certain pension rule . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 40 ) . Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jim Shannon present a Bill to require the continue appointment of a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief and make provision about the special envoy ' s function . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 41 ) . National Cancer Strategy Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Clive Jones present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish a ten - year cancer strategy for England ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 42 ) . Bereavement Support ( Children and Young People ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Christine Jardine present a Bill to require specified organisation and public body to inform child and young people of local , national and online support service available to they follow a bereavement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 43 ) . Battery Energy Storage Systems ( Fire Safety ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Anna Sabine present a Bill to make fire and rescue authority statutory consultees for planning application relate to Battery Energy Storage Systems ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 44 ) . bullying and respect at Work Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rachael Maskell present a Bill to provide for a statutory definition of bully at work ; to make provision relate to bully at work , include to enable claim relate to workplace bully to be consider by an employment tribunal ; to provide for a respect at Work Code to set minimum standard for positive and respectful work environment ; to give power to the Equalities and Human Rights Commission to investigate workplace and organisation where there be evidence of a culture of , or multiple incident of , bully and to take enforcement action ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 45 ) . Domestic Building Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mark Garnier present a Bill to make provision about consumer protection in relation to domestic building work ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 46 ) . hunt trophy ( Import Prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) David Reed present a Bill to make provision prohibit the import of hunt trophy into Great Britain . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 47 ) . secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Emma Foody present a Bill to make provision about the notice period for termination of funding agreement for secure 16 to 19 Academies ; to make provision about the Secretary of State ' s duty to consider the impact on exist educational institution when it be propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy ; and to alter the consultation question require when it be propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 49 ) . animal in Medical Research ( Prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Steve Race present a Bill to prohibit the use of animal in medical research ; to require the use of non - animal method for conduct medical research ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 50 ) . child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Paul Holmes present a Bill to make provision about the maintenance of register by local authority of child in their area who be not full - time pupil at any school ; to make provision about support by local authority to promote the education of such child ; to make provision about school attendance order ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 51 ) . Employment Rights ( Special Constables ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Ashley Fox present a Bill to amend Section 50 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 to add Special Constables to the list of those grant the right to take time off work to perform their duty . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 53 ) . Agricultural Land ( Planning ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Whately present a Bill to prohibit the granting of planning permission in respect of Grade 1 agricultural land ; to provide for exemption from that prohibition in specify circumstance ; to place duty on local planning authority in respect of such land ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 54 ) . Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Gregory Stafford present a Bill to make provision about the misuse of litigation to suppress freedom of speech . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 55 ) . Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Liz Saville Roberts present a Bill to amend the Health and Safety at Work etc . act 1974 to place a requirement on employer to take proactive measure to prevent violence and harassment in the workplace ; to make provision for protection for woman and girl in the workplace ; and to require the Health and Safety Executive to publish a Health and Safety Framework on violence and harassment in the workplace , include violence against woman and girl in the workplace . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 56 ) . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Jeremy Wright , present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to establish an independent review of disablement cause by Covid - 19 vaccination and the adequacy of the compensation offer to person so disabled ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 58 ) . court ( Remote Hearings ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Oliver Ryan present a Bill to allow for certain civil and family court hearing to be conduct remotely . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 59 ) . Green Spaces Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Caroline Voaden present a Bill to define the term " green space " to include urban park , neighbourhood area , and significant natural landscape ; to establish a Government Office for Green Spaces and to make provision about the power and duty of that Office in relation to local authority and public body ; to require that Office to advise the Government on the preservation , enhancement , and accessibility of green space ; to make provision about the promotion of community involvement in protection of green space ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 60 ) . Educational Institutions ( Mental Health Policy ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Maguire present a Bill to require specified educational institution to develop and maintain a mental health policy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 61 ) . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Aphra Brandreth present a Bill to make provision change the law about the offence of livestock worry , include change to what constitute an offence and increase power for investigation of suspect offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 62 ) . Plant Protection Products ( prohibition on Public Sector Use ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Si â n Berry present a Bill to provide for the prohibition of the use of professional plant protection product by local authority and other public authority for amenity purpose ; to require the Secretary of State to publish guidance in connection with that prohibition ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 63 ) . Chalk Streams ( Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Green present a Bill to provide for a category of protection for chalk stream for the purpose of provide additional protection from pollution , abstraction and other form of environmental damage ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 65 ) . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rebecca Harris present a Bill to make provision regard pet with microchip ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 66 ) . football ( Gender Inequality ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) James MacCleary present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for measure to address gender inequality in football . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 67 ) . Heritage Public Houses Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mike Wood , support by Bob Blackman , Mr Richard Holden , Ben Lake , Mr Toby Perkins and Greg Smith , present a Bill to require local authority to maintain a register of heritage public house in their area and to make provision in connection with the compilation and maintenance of such register ; to make provision relate to planning application in respect of public house on such a register ; to place restriction on the sale of heritage public house ; to make provision relate to the nomination of heritage public house as asset of community value ; to make provision about the listing of heritage public house ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 68 ) . Building Regulations ( Minimum Standards ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Manuela Perteghella present a Bill to set minimum standard for the building of new home in relation to quality and energy efficiency ; to place requirement on developer of new home ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 69 ) . Public Services ( Targets ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Olly Glover present a Bill to require the Government to set target for the provision of public service and amenity , have regard to target for the building of new home ; to require the Government to publish a report of progress against such target every three year ; to require the Government to consult local authority to assess requirement for public service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 70 ) . state - relate death ( National Oversight Mechanism ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Carla Denyer present a Bill to establish an independent body to operate a national oversight mechanism to monitor recommendation arise from investigation into state - relate death , include inquest , public inquiry and official review ; to make provision about the power of that body to require action in relation to such recommendation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 71 ) . nature - base Solutions ( Water and Flooding ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Adrian Ramsay present a Bill to require water company and relevant public body to use nature - base solution as a means to improve water and flood risk management service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 72 ) . Social Media ( access to Accounts ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Max Wilkinson present a Bill to require provider of social medium account to grant parent access to the social medium account of their child in case where the child have die ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 73 ) . Climate Finance Fund ( Fossil Fuels and Pollution ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Burgon present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a Climate Finance Fund , to be fund via a levy on fossil fuel company and other organisation that contribute to pollution ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 74 ) . carer and Care Workers Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish and implement a Care Workers Employment Strategy , with the aim of improve the recruitment and retention of care worker ; to establish an independent National Care Workers Council with responsibility for set professional standard for care worker , for establish a system of professional qualification and accreditation for care worker , and for advise the Government on those matter ; to require the Secretary of State to commission an independent assessment of the support available to unpaid carer , include financial support and employment right ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 76 ) . bus Services Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to place a duty on the Government to ensure that every town with a population of more than 10 , 000 people have a regular bus service operate seven day a week , and that local health service , include hospital and GP surgery , be serve by those bus ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 November , and to be print ( Bill 77 ) . meat ( information about Method of Killing ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to require producer , supplier and retailer of meat to indicate clearly whether the animal have be kill in accordance with religious rite without prior stunning ; to require the Secretary of State to collect and publish specified information relate to meat slaughter in accordance with such practice ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 78 ) . Bank of England ( Inflation Targets ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to make provision for penalty against the Court of Directors of the Bank of England for failure to meet inflation target . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 79 ) . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to create an offence of child criminal exploitation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 80 ) . Health Insurance ( Exemption from Insurance Premium Tax ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to provide for exemption from insurance premium tax in respect of health insurance ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 81 ) . exemption from Value Added Tax ( list place of worship ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to exempt from Value Added Tax repair to list place of worship ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March , and to be print ( Bill 82 ) . bailiff ( Warrants of Possession ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to set maximum time limit within which a bailiff ' s warrant of possession appointment date must be grant ; to make provision for alternative method of execute warrant of possession ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 83 ) . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Public Electric Vehicle Charging Points ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to exempt from Value Added Tax the supply of electricity at public electric vehicle charging point ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 84 ) . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Jeremy Wright , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to review , and publish a report on , the merit of increase the relevant statutory sum under the Vaccine Damage Payments Act 1979 for all claim since 1 January 2020 by an amount represent the amount of inflation since 2007 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 85 ) . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to amend section 58 of the Highways Act 1980 to restrict the defence available to highway authority ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 86 ) . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Jeremy Wright , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to make provision about financial assistance to person who have suffer disablement follow vaccination against Covid - 19 and to the next of kin of person who have die shortly after vaccination against Covid - 19 ; to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of a no - fault compensation scheme to provide such financial assistance , on whether there should be any upper limit on the financial assistance available , on the criterion for eligibility and on whether payment should be make in all case where there be no other reasonable cause for the death or disablement suffer ; to provide for a special time limit under the Limitation Act 1980 for action in respect of personal injury or death follow a Covid - 19 vaccination ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 87 ) . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to provide that a draft statutory instrument which be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure may be amend by either House of Parliament before it be approve ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 88 ) . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to provide that , before make any order to designate a type of dog for the purpose of section 1 or 2 of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 , the Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation and publish a comparative review of datum show the incidence of fatality result from bite of dog of that type in the last three year . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 89 ) . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to require the Government to conduct a review of every Arm ' s - Length Body in existence on 4 July 2024 and to publish the result of those review within four year ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 90 ) . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to exempt from Value Added Tax good or service which be beneficial to the environment , to health and safety , to education or for charitable purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 91 ) . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to amend the Mobile Homes Act 1983 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 92 ) . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to create an offence of disclose the identity of a person who be the subject of an investigation in respect of the alleged commission of an offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 93 ) . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to exempt from vat supply of electricity , oil and gas for domestic purpose ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 94 ) . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to amend the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 to make provision about parliamentary scrutiny of regulation make under that Act ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 95 ) . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemptions of Motor Homes ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to exempt motor home from caravan site licensing requirement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 96 ) . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to make provision about arrange alternative non - NHS England treatment for patient who have wait for more than one year for hospital treatment ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 6 December , and to be print ( Bill 97 ) . british Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to make provision for the privatisation of the British Broadcasting Corporation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 98 ) . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to extend the definition of child ' s clothing for the purpose of exemption from vat ; to extend the vat exemption to further category of school uniform ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 99 ) . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to de - criminalise the non - payment of the BBC licence fee by person age over seventy - five ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 100 ) . regulatory Impact assessment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to require a Regulatory Impact Assessment to be publish for all primary and secondary legislation introduce by the Government ; to make provision for associated sanction ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 101 ) . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to require public authority to exercise their statutory power to investigate and take enforcement action for breach of the law ; to make provision for sanction for fail to take such action ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 102 ) . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to create offence in respect of person who have enter the UK illegally or who have remain in the UK without legal authority ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 103 ) . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to make provision for co - funding and for the extension of co - payment for NHS service in England ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 16 May 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 104 ) . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to limit exit payment make by some public sector organisation to employee ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 105 ) . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope present a Bill to establish a national register of Green Belt land in England ; to restrict the ability of local authority to de - designate Green Belt land ; to make provision about future development of de - designate Green Belt land ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 106 ) . water ( Agricultural Pollution ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ellie Chowns present a Bill to make provision to prevent , reduce and regulate agricultural pollution of water . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 108 ) . Employment Rights Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Kevin Hollinrake have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I declare that I be a lifelong proud trade union member — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . ] when the Government take office and I take this job , we promise the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , nothing less than a new deal for work people . we say that we would introduce a Bill to deliver that within 100 day , and we have fulfil the promise we make to the british public . let we be clear : too many work people have have to wait too long for change . over decade , the good , secure job that our parent and grandparent could build a life on be replace by low - pay and insecure work . wage flatline , in - work poverty grow , growth be strangle and the Tories leave behind a battered economy that serve no one . today , this Labour Government , lead by work people for work people , will start to turn the tide . first , I want to note the reason amendment . our reform be ambitious — they have to be to bring real change . but we have engage extensively and will continue to do so . today we be publish a package of consultation on strengthen statutory sick pay , zero - hour contract , industrial relation , collective redundancy and fire and rehire . as the impact assessment we have publish today show , the Bill be a pro - growth Bill . this landmark Bill — pro - growth , pro - business and pro - worker — will extend the employment protection give by the good british company to million more worker . in a discourtesy to the House , the very extensive impact assessment to which the Deputy Prime Minister have refer be publish only a couple of hour before the debate , but one thing that it say be that the estimate cost of the measure could be £ 4 . 5 billion a year . how do load cost on to employer help to boost growth and job creation ? the impact assessment also make it clear that the Bill will have a positive impact on growth . More than 10 million worker , in every corner of this country , will benefit from Labour ' s plan , and the money in their pocket will go back into the economy and support business , in particular those on high street . across the business spectrum , from giant like Sainsbury ' s and Octopus Energy to small and medium - sized company like Richer Sounds , successful firm already know that strong employee right mean strong growth opportunity . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and I have just be to the Co - op in County Durham to see how it retain valuable talent , boost profit , and power ahead with enlighten policy that support good working life for its staff . the Bill will bring all business on board . the Government ' s own impact assessment state that " the impact on growth could " — only could — " be positive " , and that any such impact " would be small in magnitude . " the negative impact , not least on small business , will be very serious in magnitude , as my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) lay out . will the Deputy Prime Minister please explain how she will minimise the negative impact ? we have already be work with business while bring forward the Bill , and we will continue to do that through the consultation . we have recognise probation period , for example , but we do not think that people should not have right two year into their employment . we be listen , but I say to Conservative Members , who promise employment Bill after employment Bill and then never deliver they , that the people of this country deserve secure fairness at work , and this Labour Government will deliver it . almost 9 million employee will benefit from protection against unfair dismissal from day one , 1 . 7 million will benefit from new policy on flexible working , and up to 2 million will receive a right to bereavement leave . thousand of pregnant woman and mother will benefit from new maternity protection , and ten of thousand of father and partner will be bring into the scope of paternity leave . we will deliver a genuine living wage that match the cost of living . in total , more than 10 million people will benefit from Labour ' s plan in every corner of this country , so if you be in casual work , unable to rely on guarantee hour , this Labour Government be deliver for you . if you be work hard on low pay and struggle to make end meet , this Government be deliver for you . this be a Government back in the service of work people . can the Deputy Prime Minister define " work people " ? the Conservatives have 14 year to support the work people of this — [ interruption . ] will she give way ? will the hon . member listen to my response ? I give way to he . for 14 year , the Tories promise employment Bills and an industrial strategy , and in 14 year they deliver the high cost of live for the work people of this country . it will be this Labour Government who deliver for they . this be a Government back in the service of work people , build an economy fit for the future and make work pay . for the first time ever , we have instruct the Low Pay Commission to take account of the cost of live when set the minimum wage , because everyone deserve a proper living wage for a proper day ' s work . we have already move to protect 4 million self - employ worker from late payment with the new fair payment code , and we have already encourage employer not to use the ineffective and fail minimum service law , which do not stop a single day of industrial action while in force , before we repeal they for good . that be a bold start , but we be go far . the UK labour market be not deliver for worker or business , and it hold back the UK economy . we know that thing have to change . the Bill mark a momentous opportunity to chart a new route to growth — one build from the bottom up and the middle out — alongside the £ 63 billion of investment into the UK that be announce last week . high growth , high wage and high productivity — a new partnership between worker and business . rise — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I hope it be a point of order . I believe it be . the Deputy Prime Minister just talk about the amount of money come into the economy as a result of the measure . be it appropriate for she and other member across the House to speak in the debate without mention what they have receive in donation from trade union , give how central the law around trade union be to the Bill ? not a point of order ! you be correct : it be not a point of order , even if the right hon . Gentleman think that it be . sexual harassment in the workplace be absolutely horrendous and have be terrible in demotivate people from stay in their workplace . follow my Worker Protection Act 2024 become law , the Government proposal go even far on third - party harassment in the workplace . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that the Bill will encourage people by make our workplace safe ? I agree with the hon . member and thank she for her work in that area . we must ensure that workplace have a good culture that do not tolerate any form of harassment , include sexual harassment , because that be bad for business as well . the major achievement of part 1 and 2 of the Bill will be to strengthen right for work people . that be personal for I : I start my work life as a carer on casual term , not know if there would be a pay cheque next month . the fear of not be able to provide for my young family , and of lose everything , stick with I . now that I be at the Cabinet table , I be determined to deliver for the million of people in the position that I be once in , and to bring all company up to the standard of the good when it come to worker ' right . the Bill be a recognition and celebration of the many employer that be already implement such measure and , in many case , go much far . I welcome the new Labour Government ' s approach to ensure that my constituent feel the benefit of economic growth . as my right hon . friend will know , more than 1 million people on zero - hour contract will benefit from her guarantee hour policy . do she agree that the Bill will raise living standard across the country ? I agree , and can confirm to the House that the Bill will finally end the exploitative zero - hour contract . up to 2 . 4 million worker will finally have the right to a contract that reflect the number of hour that they work . for too long , work people have be subject to the shocking practice of fire and rehire . often , even the threat of fire and rehire mean that people voluntarily agree to low pay and reduce term and condition . our Bill will end those bully tactic for good , put an end to fire and rehire and to fire and replace , unless employer can prove that they face financial difficulty that threaten the survival of their business and that change the employee ' s contract be unavoidable . after year of campaigning , work people finally have a Government who listen . no long will work people face the scourge of fire and rehire . a number of our constituent be threaten with fire and rehire during the covid pandemic — shameful act by their employer . People be fear for their livelihood while that crisis be go on . do my right hon . friend agree that we have wait far too long and can not end the scourge of fire and rehire soon enough in order to give worker the protection that they need and deserve ? I agree with my hon . friend . the previous Government promise to do something about the practice but fail to do anything . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that growth , if it come , will come from small and medium - sized enterprise , which be the bedrock of industry in this country ? do she accept that although the measure may be capable of be accommodate by large business with big human resource department , they certainly will not be by small and medium - sized enterprise , so the Bill be likely to damage the growth that she insist will come under a Labour Government ? I agree with the right hon . gentleman on the importance of small and medium - sized business , which do a fantastic job and contribute widely to our economy . that be why we have engage with small and medium - sized enterprise . many of they understand that if there be clarity around what we be do and if we consult like we do with probation period , then we be work with they . but many of they also recognise that the scourge of insecure , low - pay work in this country at the moment be hold Britain ' s economy back . that be what we be go to change . the Deputy Prime Minister reference the extra help for work parent that the Bill will introduce . do she agree that that stand in stark contrast to the suggestion of some on the conservative Benches that maternity pay have " go too far " ? I agree with my hon . friend . when the previous Labour Government bring in the national minimum wage they have the same sort of argument make at they , but what we actually see be that the minimum wage lift million of people out of poverty . it will be this Labour Government who can stand proudly and say that we stand up for the worker , and for those good employer in our country that be do the right thing by protect and look after their employee . we be clearly go to hear a lot of the same argument that we hear year ago , when Labour introduce the minimum wage . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that good employer have nothing to fear from the Bill , and work people have a lot to celebrate ? I agree with my hon . friend . the Bill be pro - worker and pro - business ; that be the context in which the Bill have come to fruition . we have be consult wide and long on the measure , and we believe they strike the right balance to get our economy work across the board , so that people can contribute and feel that their contribution be value as part of the UK economy . the Bill also deliver a once - in - a - generation upgrade of the right of our proud seafarer . never again will any company be able to get away scot - free with exploit a loophole to sack employee without notice . no long will our sea be the byword for a race to the bottom on standard . the next step in our package to transform the right of work people be on unfair dismissal . at present , employee must wait two year for basic protection against unfair dismissal , so it be not surprising that they can be loath to change job and restart the clock . that be not right . it deprive people of promotion opportunity and pay rise , and it limit business ' ability to recruit . under the Bill , employee will not have to wait year for protection from unfair dismissal . instead , they will receive it from day one . those measure alone will benefit close to 9 million people . the Deputy Prime Minister talk about seafarer not be abuse , but do she apologise to DP World last week ? I do not know what the hon . member be get at . maybe he be get at the former Conservative Transport Secretary , who refer to they as pirate of the high sea or weasel — I do not know . I have just say clearly to all business in the UK that I want to work with they to ensure that we value their employee . many of they be onboard : they recognise that it be good for business , good for growth and good for their employee . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in relation to the point raise by my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , I understand that the right hon . Lady believe she be fulfil a manifesto commitment , and we have to respect that . however , I hope she recognise that while these regulation will apply across the whole of the economy , the dynamic within small business and — in particular — microbusinesse be very different from those within large business . for example , if a business only have four employee and all four apply for flexible working , as the Bill provide for , it become not just a logistical and administrative nightmare but a personal nightmare for the person who be try to run that business . I hope that as the Bill progress , the right hon . Lady will look at what have be a customary carve - out for small business and consider whether that might be appropriate for specific measure . some of the measure in the Bill do recognise the difference between large employer and small one , but we also have to ensure fairness and clarity of purpose in this country , and I think this Bill strike the right balance . as I have say to other hon . member who have raise issue regard small and medium business , we be work with those business . we have already listen regard probation period : the Bill now create a new statutory probation period so that employer and employee can check whether a job be a good fit . if it turn out not to be right , the Bill allow for a new light - touch standard of fairness for employer to meet when they dismiss someone , so I think we be strike the right balance . we have work very hard on this piece of legislation . if worker be dismiss unfairly , everyone deserve the right to protection , however long they have be in post . with Labour , they will have that right . turn to statutory sick pay , no one should feel force to struggle through work when they be not well . our view be simple : everyone should be entitle to sick pay from the first day that they be sick , regardless of their earning , yet 1 . 3 million employee be currently exclude because they do not earn enough . that mean that low earner , include carer , go to work when ill because they can not afford not to do so , risk infect the vulnerable , the elderly , and other with whom they come into contact . no one should want that . under this Bill , all employee will be entitle to sick pay however much they earn , and that sick pay will be pay from their first day of be ill . will the right hon . Lady give way on that point ? I have already give way to the right hon . member , and there be so many other member who want to speak . this government know that the current system do not support work family . we say that we would make flexible work the default , and the Bill will do just that . flexible working make worker happy , and we know that business that offer it benefit from big , well and more diverse recruitment pool . at the same time , we recognise that not all workplace can accommodate all flexible working request , so business will be able to negotiate or reject unworkable request as long as that rejection be reasonable . who would decide whether a rejection be reasonable or unreasonable ? there will be statutory guidance , but of course , it would depend on the various different circumstance . we see during the covid pandemic that people be able to be incredibly flexible in their work . it be with that mindset that I ask employee and employer to look at how they deliver service , because far too much talent go out of our economy because of inflexibility . employer should think about how much talent they can retain in their business by keep people in work ; many of the good employer already know that , and offer way more flexibility than we be suggest in our Bill . the current parental leave system be also outdate , which be not right . under the Bill , father and partner will be able to give notice of their intention to take paternity leave and unpaid parental leave from their first day in a new job . new mum also lack the protection they deserve . we know that the conservative party ' s solution be to go back to the dark age and scrap maternity pay altogether ; if the Conservatives have their way , as a single mum , I would have be leave with nothing . it be a Labour Government who introduce the maternity allowance as the number of mother in the workforce grow , and while the conservative party — out of step with modern Britain — can not wait to get rid of it , I say that we will never , ever stop defend it . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way — what an incredible legacy she be set down today ! adoptive parent clearly need time with their child as they bring they into their family , but self - employ adopter do not have the same privilege . will my right hon . friend look at how we can ensure that those parent also have proper statutory right to take leave and receive pay ? I thank my hon . friend for make that really important point . this be the start of a process . there be a number of consultation , such as for the self - employ and on a single category of worker , and they will continue , because some of these thing be more complex than what we can deliver in this Bill . but I say to my hon . friend and to other member : please come to this in the spirit of what we want , which be to improve work people ' s life . as I have say , many employer already go above and beyond what we be say in this Bill . I hope we can start to celebrate those employer who do so and to spread that across the economy . may I join other in celebrate this Bill and what it represent ? my right hon . friend talk about employer who be already go above and beyond . frankly , they get it that , out there in the real world , support family be good for the economy and good for growth ; that include dad , who we all recognise have responsibility . what more can she tell we about that spirit of openness in the Bill and the opportunity to look at parental leave , particularly paternity leave ? what more can we do to help more family to take it up and get long ? I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . we all agree across the House that family play an important role , that business can help to support family , whatever size or shape they be , and that we must go much far to make that happen . the Bill go far by make it unlawful to dismiss pregnant woman , mother on maternity leave and mother who return to work during a six - month period after they return , except in certain specific circumstance . for woman in work , we will not stop there . eight out of 10 menopausal woman be in work . for most , there be no support . when workplace fail to support woman , we fail in our moral duty to treat people equally , and employer lose out on talent and skill . on pay , too , we be fail woman . the national gender pay gap still stand at over 14 % and be not narrow fast enough , so we will be require action plan for large employer to address the pay gap and support woman during the menopause . it be a sad reality that woman often find the workplace uncomfortable and unsafe . sexual harassment at work can destroy confidence and ruin career . we will do everything in our power to tackle it . the Bill will strengthen the duty on employer to prevent sexual harassment of employee , and it will strengthen protection for whistleblower by make it explicit that if they do the right thing and speak up about sexual harassment , the law will protect they . through this Bill , the party of maternity pay and of the Equal Pay Act 1970 will introduce the next generation of right for work woman . central to all these reform be our belief that all employer should always support their employee . the good one already do . in early September , over 500 Oscar Mayer worker , organise by Unite the Union , launch strike against the company ' s appalling use of fire and rehire . many of these worker be my constituent and be face serious threat to their pay and working condition , with potential loss of up to £ 3 , 000 annually . I hugely support this legislation , but immediate action be crucial to protect my constituent and worker across the UK from such exploitative practice . will my right hon . friend provide clarity on the timescale for reform to unfair dismissal ? order . before the Deputy Prime Minister respond , may I say that if there be declaration of interest to be make , even in intervention , they should be make on the Floor of the House ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . that be why we have move at pace . the previous Government promise an employment Bill to protect worker and they do not deliver . within our first 100 day , we be deliver this employment Bill . lose a love one be among the hard thing for any of we . that be why in this Bill we be set a clear standard for business , give employee the right to bereavement leave . take together , these new right for work people — sick pay when they need it , an end to exploitative zero - hour contract and to fire and rehire , bereavement leave , expand entitlement , paternity leave and new protection for woman in work — represent the big upgrade for work people in a generation , but we be not stop there . do my right hon . friend agree that the Bill not only represent the big uplift in worker ’ right in a generation , but strengthen their enforcement through new enforcement measure ? that stand in stark contrast to the Conservatives , who bring in unlawful employment tribunal fee . my hon . friend make a very important point . we want the culture to change as well . we have have a race to the bottom where worker have not be protect , and we have see the big wave of strike action because of the previous Government . we want employer and trade union to come together to grow our economy . the employer and the union be up for that challenge , because we know that the world of work be fair and more productive when work people can come together to negotiate fair pay and decent condition . that be why we be reinstate the school support staff negotiate body in recognition of the vital role that support staff play in the workforce and in young people ' s education . as a former carer , I have say from day one that in this place I will champion carer and the complex , high - quality and professional work that they do . I be so proud to say that after 14 year , their extraordinary , life - save contribution to our community will no long be devalue by low pay and lack of career progression . for the first time , thank to this Labour Government , there will be a historic fair pay agreement process in the adult social care sector , with a new body empower to negotiate pay and condition and ensure that training and a career structure be in place . at last , care will be rightly regard as a multi - skilled profession and carer will be confident that they have the respect and income that they deserve for look after our vulnerable love one and help to manage the pressure on the NHS and in social care . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . do my right hon . friend agree that care worker be often the Cinderella service ? they be low pay , but certainly not low skilled . it be time we get to grip with hostile employer who do not pay travel time . my hon . friend make a very important point . the disparity in the term and condition for care worker actually impede recruitment : we be see huge number of vacancy in the care sector . through the fair pay agreement , I want to see carer be treat with fairness for the valuable contribution they make . they be also key to tackle the challenge we face in our NHS . I thank the right hon . Lady for raise the issue of care worker and the great contribution that they make by look after those who need care . do she agree that the minimum wage for a carer should be increase by £ 2 an hour , in line with liberal Democrat policy ? we have already write to the Low Pay Commission , as I have set out , and we want to go far through the fair pay agreement to make sure that carer be recognise for the valuable role they play . care worker be not just people who do the shopping or call in for 15 minute ; they handle complex need in the community and look after some of our most vulnerable love one . they should get the recognition they deserve , and that be why we be take these measure . we know the valuable contribution that trade union make . that be why we be reset industrial relation . the Conservatives preside over strike Britain with their scorch earth approach to strike . first , we be repeal the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 . anyone with a brain could see that that legislation would do two thing : increase tension and fail to prevent a single day of industrial action . we say so at the time , and what happen ? the rail dispute cost our economy over £ 1 billion . the law have fail and have no reason to stay on the statute book . we be also repeal nearly every part of the flawed Trade Union Act 2016 , which try to smother trade union in form fill and red tape and prevent they from do their job . we will go far by strengthen the voice of work people by make it easy for trade union to get recognise , give they the right of access to workplace and make sure that they have enough time to represent their member . when the right of work people be flout , a new fair work agency will be empower to investigate . today we be also launch a consultation on modernise trade union law so that they be fit for the modern workplace and our modern economy . in under 100 day , we have put together a transformative package that mark a new era for work people . we know that the Conservatives will oppose this every step of the way . we know because they have history , just as they oppose Labour ' s minimum wage and now , shamefully , want to take we back to the dark age when woman be deny maternity pay . it be clear that they be out of step with modern Britain . our plan mark a new way forward — a new deal for work people , make job more secure and family friendly , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , support woman in work at every stage in their life , a genuine living wage and sick pay for the low earner , far and fast action to close the gender pay gap , ensure that right be enforce and that trade union be strengthen , repeal the anti - worker , anti - union law , turn the page on industrial relation and end fire and rehire , while give work people the basic right that they deserve from day one in the job . this be a landmark moment , deliver in under 100 day . this be a pro - business , pro - worker , pro - growth Bill and a pro - business , pro - worker , pro - growth government . today , after 14 year of failure , we be start a new chapter and decisively deliver a well Britain for work people . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House note the balanced reform make by previous conservative government to improve worker ’ right , include the National Living Wage , the prohibition of the use of exclusivity clause or term in zero hour contract and the introduction of share parental leave and pay , and decline to give a second reading to the Employment Rights Bill because it have be rush into Parliament without full consultation to meet an arbitrary 100 - day deadline and Monday 21 October 2024 Business today : Chamber 19 have not be accompany by an Impact Assessment consider the impact on the Employment Tribunal , especially as a result of the removal of the qualifying period for the right to claim unfair dismissal or the impact of the extra red tape on sme or the impact of establish the Fair Work Agency ; because the repeal of trade union law will lead to more strike and intimidation in the workplace , and will force taxpayer to foot the bill for inflation - bust pay hike without public service reform ; because the Bill undermine choice for worker about whether they want to fund political campaigning and force firm and public body to bankroll more trade union facility time , include trade union diversity job ; and because the Bill be contrary to the Government ' s state goal of improve productivity and economic growth and will increase cost for business and consumer . " the conservative party will always be the party of business , but we be pro - business and pro - worker , not least because many conservative Members have be both worker and people who have start and grow their own business . those who have do so be the first to appreciate the symbiotic relationship between the two . we act during our time in office to improve worker ’ right in several area : flexible working , parental leave , redundancy protection , ensure that worker keep the tip leave for they by their customer , and significant increase to the national living wage . I start my first significant business back in 1992 . over three decade , we grow to become a national business employ hundred of people . we value every one of those people . we be one of the Sunday Times ' s good 100 company to work for and be certify by investor in People . I believe that business be a force for good and that businesspeople do great service to our community and the wide economy . as Winston Churchill put it , they be the strong horse that pull the whole cart . the question I now ask myself be whether I would start that small business again today if the Bill be in place . sadly , the answer be probably no — certainly not a business that employ any people . the very high cost of these measure will be bear by all company and pass on in the form of high price , reduce wage and lose job . the measure will fall most heavily on small business , for which they could be existential . do the hon . member remember 1997 and 1998 , when the conservative party say that the social chapter and the national minimum wage would cost half a million job ? in the late 1990 , half a million job be actually create . I be not here at the time , but it be clear nevertheless that the minimum wage and the national living wage have have a positive effect on prosperity in this country , and I would be the first to admit it . I want the hon . Lady , and other Government Members , to understand that those measure fall equally on all business across the UK . the measure in this Bill fall disproportionately hard on small business . what the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) fail to understand be that the implication of these measure , such as a day one right to an employment tribunal , be that even a spurious case of unfair dismissal cost time and money . it be potentially ten of thousand of pound to defend that case . as one business organisation put it , " you lose when you be accuse . " Most small business saddle with such a cost would be sink without trace . it be not just that , but the deterrent effect , which it would have have on I , and which will be feel right across the economy and by every exist and aspirant business person across this entire nation . when the Deputy Prime Minister reflect on what she be hear from people who have actually run a business , will she at the very least consider exempt small and medium enterprise from this catastrophic Bill ? like my hon . friend , I start a business — I start mine a little early than he , but that be how much old I be . I follow the Deputy Prime Minister ' s speech as carefully as I could . from what I could understand , because of the change in the Bill , someone can fail to turn up to work on day one claim that they be sick and then , because they will now have right against unfair dismissal , they will be able , without ever do a day ' s work , to hold a small business to ransom and put that business at risk . as draft , that be certainly the case . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . member may not know that small business stand the cost of statutory sick pay . it be not reimburse by the Government , so the Bill would have a significant cost for business . rise — I be happy to give way to the hon . member for Leeds East . I have listen with interest to what the shadow Minister be say about people be entitle to go all the way to an employment tribunal hearing from the moment they take up employment . have he ever hear of pre - hear review for employment tribunal ? the point I be make be that the case may go all the way to an employment tribunal , as the hon . Gentleman know , but there would also be the cost of defend the case even if it do not . that small business will have to bring consultant in and will have to speak to lawyer . that itself cost money , and in many case that will be thousand of pound . that be what the hon . member fail to understand : when you be accuse , you lose . rise — no , I will make a little progress . the cost of all these measure — in individual opportunity and to the wide economy — be huge . the Government may try to deny that , despite their clear lack of experience of the real world of business . it be extremely alarming that not one of those on the Front Bench today have ever start or run a business that employ anyone . even bad than that , only one member of the Cabinet have ever do so , and that be the Secretary of State for Scotland . shamefully , give what be at stake , the Government can not deny our case that the Bill will have a huge economic cost , because today — finally , two hour before this debate — they have actually produce the impact assessment . the cost of the Bill be on the very first page : up to £ 5 billion per annum . the word " uncertain " appear 302 time in those impact assessment , and the word " risk " be use 432 time , so the cost be likely to be much more . the shadow Minister have just say that shamefully there be only one person on our Front Bench who have run a business . how many of his front - Bench team be trade union member ? I be not a trade union member , and I would not know about my colleague , but I start a business , as do my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , as do the shadow Chancellor and as do many other in our party . we be proud of that fact . this morning I meet business representative cover all part of the british economy . like we , they have serious reservation about this Bill . the Institute of Directors highlight the fact that 57 % of its member will be less likely to hire staff , with only 2 % say that would be more likely . the Confederation of British Industry say that the cost associate with this Bill can not be afford by 54 % of business . this legislation apply to England and not Northern Ireland , but I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I be concerned about small and medium business that employ a small workforce . if one or two of they have a long - term illness , they may be off for a while , come back to work and then go off for a while . be there not a need — I look to the Deputy Prime Minister — for a methodology whereby small business can employ someone in the short term for those position , otherwise they will go to the wall ? I agree . I be interested that the Deputy Prime Minister say that her menopause measure would be exclusive to large business . I welcome that , and I ask she to look at attach the same condition , ideally , to the entire Bill , but if not to certain part of it . the risk for small business be simply catastrophic . even one or two case could completely sink a business . when it come to risk , be my hon . friend concern about the timing of this legislation if , as report , the Budget raise national insurance for those business ? be that yet another risk in addition to this legislation ? my hon . friend be right . this morning we meet representative from ukhospitality , who say exactly that : the Bill be come on the back of a number of change and some difficult time during covid for industry that employ a lot of people , which will be particularly badly affect by this legislation . the Government should think twice about implement it at this moment in time . my hon . Friend mention the 302 mention of uncertainty . it be hard to know how that can foster growth . let we be honest : business be already more highly taxed and regulate than ever before . we all know the reason — the pandemic — and we have to take responsibility for that . will he assure I that , as a party , we will use this period of opposition to once again proclaim our value as a low - tax , deregulated economy ? otherwise , how will we foster growth in an increasingly competitive world ? if we tax business more , we simply lay the foundation of a future Labour Government . I agree . we should be low tax and low regulation . one of the save grace of this legislation be the detail , although the Bill itself be light on detail : many of the measure will be bring in through secondary legislation , therefore make it easy for a future government to reverse some of the catastrophic change . rise — I will make some progress . the Government ' s own impact assessment acknowledge that the measure will mean price rise for consumer and job loss . in it , 40 % of firm survey say that price would go up , and 17 % say that they will reduce the number of employee . that be hundred of thousand of job at risk . the criticism of the Bill do not stop there . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn that it risk low employment rate and low wage for employee . the Local Government Chronicle have warn that the Bill will place financial pressure on council . the Recruitment and Employment Confederation have say that the Bill will fuel long and complex litigation . the Financial Times have warn that the Bill be cause deep unease among business leader . in short , job down , wage down and price up . in their fail attempt to allay concern about the Bill , the Deputy Prime Minister and the shadow Business Secretary have state that they have consult business — you be the shadow Business Secretary . sorry , though I think the Prime Minister be guilty of similar ; I do apologise . the Deputy Prime Minister and the Business Secretary have state that they have consult business . really ? the Federation of Small Businesses say not only that the Bill will " inevitably deter small employer from take on new people " , but that it be a " rush job , clumsy , chaotic and poorly plan " and that the Government be guilty of shallow engagement . so much for the " strong horse " . several representative at this morning ' s meeting say that they have be talk to but not listen to — include those represent the hospitality and retail sector some of the most labour - intensive in our economy , which be acknowledge in the impact assessment . alongside the many negative relate to the Bill that my hon . friend have lay out , do he recognise the strong possibility that , particularly in small and micro business , the legislation could inject quite significant resentment among the staff body itself ? for example , just to amplify my previous point , if you have six member of staff and three of they apply for flexible working , that have an immediate impact on those who do not have flexible working . the ability of the business to offer flexible working to future worker be also reduce , which turn the whole thing into a massive negotiation between six or seven people . that could have a significant impact on morale and sense of fair play within business themselves . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . there speak somebody who have actually run a business and understand the impact on a small employer . that be why we say there should be a carve - out , certainly for small and micro business . we have to ask ourselves this : if the Government be not listen to business who " pull the whole cart " , who be they listen to ? I think we all know the answer to that . a consultation be not five minute inside no . 10 and a photo opportunity . proper consultation be work with business , listen , take your time and not rush thing — the exact opposite of what the Government have do . we know why that be . the Deputy Prime Minister make a misguided promise to labour ' s trade union paymaster that legislation would be introduce within 100 day . despite 100 day of gloom and doom , talk the economy down and wreck business confidence , they manage it — just . the Government be not even listen to their own legal expert . only last week the Attorney General say : " excessive reliance on delegate power , Henry VIII clause , or skeleton legislation , upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive . " because the Bill be such a rush job , it take swathe of delegate power , include Henry VIII power , mean the final policy will be decide later at the Secretary of State ' s whim — not now by Parliament . legislate that way be cause real concern for business today . the Deputy Prime Minister and her colleague preach stability , yet in the same breath they be cause instability , uncertainty and fall confidence at a cost of job and investment today . there be already 58 , 000 few payroll job than when Labour take office . confidence level at the Institute of Directors on future investment intention have drop from plus 30 in June to minus six today . the Government be plan 30 consultation on the measure in the Bill . they should have take place before the Bill be introduce , so the legislation could be precise about what it will do . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for give way . he talk about trade union . I have just see a news update on the Unite union ' s Birmingham hotel and conference centre be investigate by the Serious Fraud Office . the total cost be £ 112 million , but it have now be value at £ 29 million . who will hold the trade union to account in the Bill ? my hon . friend make a strong point . that certainly need look at very carefully . as the Government ' s attempt at business consultation have clearly fail , and as no one on their Front Bench have any business experience , I will draw the right hon . Lady a picture of what the Bill actually mean for business . as the owner of two successful small business — [ interruption . ] I know Opposition Members like to do that — it ' s pantomime — but they can listen . as the owner of two successful small business and an employer of 25 people in the hospitality sector , I welcome the Bill . do Opposition Members agree that the main reason they be against this groundbreaking employment Bill be because they be embarrassed about their own record over the past 14 year ? I welcome the fact that there be at least some business experience on the Government Benches . perhaps the hon . Gentleman join the wrong party . the hon . Gentleman will recognise the picture of what the Bill mean for business . they will be terrify to take new people on for fear of huge compliance cost and legal action . they will be tie up in red tape , something that the Prime Minister say he be take an axe to . they will have to cope with measure such as the need to frequently recalculate all worker ’ hour for each reference period for each separate employee , each of which will have a unique date as they will be require to proactively offer guarantee hour . this be not even restrict to those on zero - hour contract . it will be for anyone on low hour — a bureaucratic nightmare . they will have to deal with a new right to demand flexible working , such as a four - day week . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) must be proud . business will have to become the free speech police to prevent any of their customer offend their staff . they will have to deal with a new regulator , the fair work agency , which will have the power to enter any business premise , confiscate document and levy fine — all back up by new criminal offence with penalty of up to two year in jail . as someone who have start and run a business , I should like to know the hon . Gentleman ' s opinion of the view of the former Business Secretary , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , that the minimum wage be a burden , that statutory maternity pay be excessive , and that equal pay protection in respect of race and disability be akin to segregation policy in South Africa — or do he want to distance his party from her comment ? that be not what my right hon . Friend say at all . I work with she when she be Business Secretary , and at no point do she ever say that about maternity pay . she be talk about regulation cost . she be simply point out that for many business , particularly in retail and hospitality , the rise in the national living wage have be very difficult to cope with . she be not talk about abolish it . business will have to deal with new union power to gain access to any business premise and contact its staff — wonderful ! — in order to recruit and organise member and make it much , much easy for a union to gain recognition . as the impact assessment state — this be great news ; this will really cheer everyone up — there will be " increase industrial action " and tax rise to pay for increase pay demand . [ interruption . ] that be what the Government ' s impact assessment say . Labour Members should check their impact assessment . 1970 , here we come ! there be much more , but in short , it all mean that the tail will be wag the dog . I be sure that my hon . friend will be aware of the history of Labour government since the second world war . every single one of they have leave office with employment high than it be when they start . be he concerned about the possibility that this Government will repeat the same mistake , especially give their lack of business awareness and understanding of the private sector ? I be very concerned about that . today there be 4 million more job in our economy than there be in 2010 , and 1 . 2 million few people be unemployed . I be very worried about the thing that my hon . friend be very worried about . make work pay be a laudable aim , but as one stakeholder put it this morning , " work doesn ' t pay if there ' s no work " . Most people recognise that one of the reason why the UK be the third most popular destination in the world for inward investment , which create hundred of thousand of job throughout the economy , be the flexible labour market that the Government be now seek to eliminate . do the Deputy Prime Minister and her Cabinet colleague realise that ? perhaps they secretly do , give that nine out of 10 of those Cabinet colleague recruit on term that be at odd with these new regulation . sixteen Cabinet Ministers , include the Chancellor , the Foreign Secretary , the Home Secretary and the Energy Secretary , have hire people for role that involve work outside regular hour and at weekend ; six Cabinet Ministers have hire people to role with extended probation period ; and seven Cabinet Ministers , include the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Deputy Prime Minister , have hire on " insecure " fix - term contract . why would they introduce legislation that they do not understand or even comply with themselves ? the answer be , of course , their union paymaster . much like the more than 200 Labour mp who have take trade union cash , the Deputy Prime Minister have her donation to think of . she declare her interest as a union member , but she do not declare her interest as someone who have take £ 13 , 000 from union in donation . the question of what be orderly be up to your judgment , Madam Deputy Speaker , but it seem to I that that should be declare at the start of any Member ' s contribution . this be not an Employment Rights Bill , but a trade union charter — a charter that will bring about no - knock warrant that allow union to access all business premise , from the local takeaway to the local pub . clearly , shut the beer garden be not enough for this government ; they be now rely on strike action to stop you get a pint . under this trade union charter , trade union will revert to require people to opt out of donate to union ' political fund . that will line labour ' s pocket with default donation from work people . this trade union charter will abolish the threshold for strike action , unleash wave of low - threshold strike , and cripple public service by put power in the hand of militant trade union . this trade union charter will force employer to inform their staff that they can join a union at every turn . this trade union charter will reduce notice period for strike action , mean that business will be plague by zero - warning strike action , which will unleash misery on the public at the last minute . we have just have a general election . the Labour party win a historic majority on the basis of a manifesto that be pro - business , pro - worker and pro - growth . through the Bill , we be bring forward provision that be sketch out in our manifesto . why be the hon . member choose not to listen to the result of the election ? in choose to reject the provision in the Bill , he be not learn from the result of the general election . we deserve to lose the election fair and square , but the hon . Gentleman should look at that result , because it be not a popular vote for Labour . the party ' s popularity be drop by the day , and the business confidence that we need to protect in this country be drop by the day . the Bill be a trade union charter . by repeal the Trade Union Act 2016 , it will increase the number of strike by 53 % . it be a charter that will take Britain back to the 1970 — a state goal of the Deputy Prime Minister . the public will pay the price not just through uncollected waste , dysfunctional local government and picket line outside hospital , as in the 1970 ; they will be force to pay through high taxis — a fact that the Government have now admit in the impact assessment , despite pledge not to increase taxis on work people . at a time when the Government claim to be scramble for cash and be take the winter fuel payment from 9 . 5 million pensioner , they have the gall to drive up taxis to reward their trade union paymaster . that will be do not just through high national insurance , a hike in fuel duty or whatever other punishing measure the Government choose , but through council tax . because of the Government ' s corbyn - style collective bargaining for social care , council will be require to stump up an additional £ 4 . 2 billion , or £ 150 per household . the path that we take in government be pro - worker and pro - business . whereas this government put party first and country second , we work in partnership with business and worker to deliver improvement without risk investment , unemployment and business go bust . I just want to double - check : have you actually read the Bill ? it talk about a consultation period with business , and the provision will not be roll out until 2026 . there will be a probation period for certain business . we be pro - business , and maybe the shadow Minister should read the Bill properly . order . we should not refer to other colleague in the Chamber as " you " . it be quite simple . I wish the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) be with I for the hour I spend with the representative of organisation this morning . they do not feel as she do — that there be nothing to see here and nothing to worry about . they be very concerned , and we should all be worried about that . through our approach , we double the minimum wage , boost employment by 4 million , cut taxis on work people by £ 900 , cut youth unemployment , slash the employment rate and roll out the big ever expansion of free childcare . our approach recognise that by harm business , which be the strong horse that pull the whole cart , we be harm worker — a fact that this Government have clearly fail to grasp . this Bill put the cart firmly before the horse . for small business particularly , it create an existential crisis of a magnitude not see since the pandemic . the future of hundred of thousand of business people and million of job be in the Deputy Prime Minister ' s hand . I urge she to think again , withdraw this legislation and listen carefully , not just to the union but to the voice of business , before it be too late . rise — order . over 80 member wish to contribute . to try to accommodate most of they , I will limit Back - Bench speech to three minute and maiden speech to five minute . the first Back - Bench contribution be from Mike Amesbury , and I know that he will not want I to cut he off . I stand here not only as the Labour MP for Runcorn and Helsby , but as a former trade union convener and shop steward for the wonderful trade union Unison . I be also a GMB member and a member of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers . I be proud to have the opportunity to speak in this Parliament with a trade union voice , come from a working - class background , and as part of a Labour Government . how fantastic be that ? I also proudly refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . have a look : it be very clean money — trade union money . this be an important day for the history of the labour movement and for industrial relation in this country . this Employment Rights Bill be pro - business , pro - worker and pro - growth . this be exactly the change that we be elect to make , just a few week ago . the Bill work in partnership with business and trade union . it be not the work of fiction — I say this respectfully — that the shadow Minister describe in his response to my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister . Labour Members be pro - job , but pro good job . we be pro - business , but pro good business . the Bill be also good for Britain . we want to turn the page on an economy that have be blight by insecurity , poor productivity and low pay , and we want growth that leave nobody behind in our community . I pay homage to the architect of this landmark legislation : the trade union , of course ; the former shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) ; my good friend the Deputy Prime Minister ; and my neighbouring MP and good friend the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . we be elect on a manifesto for change , and today that change begin — deliver within 100 day , as the Deputy Prime Minister say . the Bill bring forward 31 employment reform to help young and not - so - young worker alike . it mark the end of exploitative zero - hour contract and fire and rehire practice , establish day one right to paternity , parental and bereavement leave for million of worker , improve statutory sickness pay and collective bargaining , and provide for fair pay agreement . it mean that 9 million people will have protection from unfair dismissal from day one , and that over 1 million people on zero - hour contract will benefit from a guarantee hour policy . this will help many in all our constituency . an additional 1 . 5 million parent take unpaid parental leave will be bring into scope of employment right from day one . this Bill be a game changer . it be a manifesto commitment that I and everyone on the Labour Benches be proud to be elect on , and I look forward to our labour come to fruition over the next few month and year . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Sarah Gibson . broadly speak , the Liberal Democrats support the Government ' s desire to modernise employment right and make they fit for the modern work world . I hope the Government will appreciate our constructive scrutiny of the Bill today , to ensure that it be as helpful as it can be , for worker and small business . in the interest of transparency , I would like to mention that I have be a small business owner for most of my adult life , but I have also be an employee . I will start by outline the improvement that the Government should make to well support carer , parent and those who fall ill . I will then move on to what adjustment must be make so that small business receive adequate support . member across this House will know that fix our social care system and adequately support carer be a key issue for the Liberal Democrats . the Bill make no clear statutory commitment to introduce pay carer ' s leave . that omission strike we as a miss opportunity for the Government to adequately support carer ' ability to juggle employment with their caring responsibility . the Government ' s " next step to make work pay " paper , which accompany this Bill , commit to review the implementation of pay carer ' s leave . however , the liberal Democrats believe that the Government should go a step far . we will be look to strengthen the legislation in this area , and we hope that the Government will not waste the opportunity to make genuine progress on carer ' s leave . as ever , I be happy to meet Ministers at any time to discuss this in great depth . the Bill could do more to support parent . we welcome the Government ' s proposal that parent should be able to benefit from support , irrespective of how long they have work for their employer . we also support the proposal to introduce new right to bereavement leave , which will allow employee to take much - need leave from work to grieve the loss of a love one . this will be especially important to those who lose a close relative or who experience a miscarriage . the Liberal Democrats have call for measure to support parent through unemployment , and to extend parental pay and leave to self - employ parent , as have be mention . we have also call for measure to increase statutory maternity leave and share parental leave to £ 350 a week , and to increase pay for paternity leave , with an income cap for high earner . in addition to improve the Bill ' s support for carer and parent , we also believe it could do more to support people when they fall ill . at £ 116 . 75 a week , statutory sick pay remain far below the minimum wage and be effectively a disincentive to take time off . this have a severe impact on public health , productivity and , ultimately , economic growth . a high rate of sick pay would enable people to take time to recover without have to worry about make end meet . of course , any such measure should go hand in hand with appropriate financial support for small business . that bring I to how this Bill can be improve for the benefit of small business owner , and I have already state my interest . it be vital that small business be actively consult on how to support they with any additional cost that the Bill may bring . have speak to many sme in my constituency , I would like to know what consideration the Government have give to the Bill ' s proposal on change to unfair dismissal during probationary period . how will small business , which do not have the resource of hr professional , be support through these change ? unfortunately , much of the crucial detail that would help such business to prepare for the impact of the Bill have be leave to secondary legislation and further consultation . although we support as much consultation as possible , the lack of detail in the Bill do not facilitate certainty and stability for business or worker . the Liberal Democrats urge Ministers to ensure that new measure to support worker go hand in hand with support for small business , start with the reform of our break business rate system . the current system effectively tax business premise and machinery , which discourage investment and heavily burden key sector in my constituency , from retail and manufacturing to renewable energy production . again , if Ministers be open to meet I and my liberal Democrat colleague , we would be happy to discuss our proposal for reform this break system and bolster our sme . this Bill have the potential to mark a new chapter in how we deliver fairness for both business owner and employee . we believe it will modernise our legislation to reflect the need of today ' s workforce . my hon . friend have say that the Bill do not go far enough to support family . in my Woking constituency , 350 child be unable to join the Scouts because of a lack of volunteer . do she agree that the Government should consider add to the Bill a right to ask for statutory volunteer leave ? my hon . friend make an important point about volunteer across the country . but the Government must go far . we must do more to support carer , parent and those who fall sick . the Bill must do more to provide small business with certainty , stability and transparency . we on the liberal Democrat Benches look forward to the Bill ' s passage and will work with colleague to ensure it deliver on its full promise , but we hope that our proposal to improve the legislation be fully consider . as a proud member of the Community and USDAW trade union , I be delighted with the legislation . in the short time available to I , I will focus on the particular issue of whether we work to live , or we live to work , because so far the debate in this place , particularly in the remark make by Conservative Members , have sound like something from the mesozoic era and the die era of the dinosaur . let we get something straight : tackle sexual harassment in the workforce be not about free speech , but about stop a crime ; flexible working do not mean people work less , just that they work flexibly ; and right do not make people irresponsible employee , any more than it be noticeable that our competitor internationally be ahead of we on this work . the measure in the Bill be about entrench good practice , so that we have a race to the top , not a flounder to the bottom , as we do under the previous Government . that be why I and other hope to push the Government to go far on maternity and paternity right . it vital that the Bill contain protection for mother around maternity discrimination , but such measure will only work if we include the other 50 % and bring dad into the equation . we do not really have a gender pay gap in this country any more : we have a motherhood pay gap and a motherhood penalty . woman face the discrimination of be make unemployed not only when they have child but because they might have child , and woman who have kid find that when they go back to work , they be consider to be less committed , capable and competent . woman who be childless be six time more likely to be recommend for a job and eight time more likely to be recommend for a promotion . the issue cut the other way too , because there be a fatherhood premium as father be consider to be more reliable employee . we must not entrench these inequality but overturn they , so that dad can be part of their kid ' life and mum can get a fair crack at be in the workforce . a third of dad in this country take no paternity leave at all ; half of they say that be because they feel pressured financially to go back to work early . modern employer get the problem and be offer more than the statutory minimum . some 92 % of father who be job hunting say flexibility make all the difference when they choose which job to take . after the pandemic , the number of stay - at - home dad increase by a third . frankly , dad want to step up to the plate , whatever member on the conservative Benches may think , and mother want they to be there too . make such change matter to the economy . the loss of productivity that come from woman care for their parent or their child mean that million be be cut out of our economy . we have some of the long work hour for dad in Europe , and some of the short work opportunity for mum . put in measure to support paternity leave will be good for both side of the equation . let we not be the generation in which dad say they never get the chance to know their teenage kid , and mum say they never get the opportunity they want . let we amend the Bill to ensure paternity leave match maternity — order . I call Sir Alec Shelbrooke . I will speak to the amendment , especially about the Bill be rush through without full consultation . on 13 May 2014 , I table a ten - minute rule Bill on the prohibition of Unpaid Internships , as member will see in volume 580 of Hansard , column 593 . on 14 November 2016 , I table a private Member ' s Bill , the National Minimum Wage ( Workplace Internships ) — volume 616 of Hansard , column 1156 . on 27 October 2017 , Lord Holmes of Richmond table the Unpaid Work Experience ( prohibition ) . and on 5 February 2020 , I co - sponsor the Unpaid Work Experience ( prohibition ) Bill introduce by Alex Cunningham , the former Member for Stockton North , now retire . despite unpaid internship be mention in the Government ' s policy document on work , they be not in the Bill . the Government have say that they will tighten up the ban , but there be no ban on unpaid internship — they exist , as they do in the last Parliament , not least with many a member on the opposite side of the House . if there be such a ban , it would not have to be mention in policy document . a ban should have be bring in alongside the Bill . there will be a lot of hubris on the Government Benches about bring forward a landmark employment Bill , with Labour Members say the Conservatives do nothing , despite all the evidence lay out by my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) in his excellent opening speech . [ interruption . ] it be all very well bury one ' s head in the sand , but every one of the Bills I bring forward get kick into the long grass , not least my private Member ' s Bill , when the only Labour Member present be the shadow Minister . if Labour mps have turn up , we might have be able to get a closure motion , but they decide not to . that have be the story throughout . if the Deputy Prime Minister do want the Bill to go through , she need to fight off whatever it be that stop it each time ; I always start out with the commitment that it would happen , and then somehow people be convince not to do it . I say that in a constructive way to the Deputy Prime Minister , who I know very well . an intern should be define as a worker . we be talk about an amendment to the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 that say that work experience be important , but after 20 day or four week in work , an intern should be treat as an employee . work should always pay , and if someone be contribute after that period of time , they be add something to the business . do my right hon . friend agree that the fundamental approach behind the Bill should be one of pragmatism rather than tribal ideology ? I be grateful to my hon . friend ; pragmatism be important when we talk about business . in that spirit , there be a pragmatic reason why the Bill should not be give its Second Reading today — perhaps at some point it should , but I fear it have be rush through to meet the spin about the first 100 day . I would wager that few Labour Members today have plan to talk about unpaid internship , which be a very important issue . I could talk for a very long time about unpaid internship , as I have for hour in this Chamber previously . to ensure equal opportunity for young people , the issue of internship be vital , but it be one that be sadly lack from the Bill . that speak to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton : the Bill have to some extent be rush . I draw attention to my membership of the GMB . I support this landmark employment Bill , the big expansion of worker ’ right for a generation . today we see the difference that a Labour Government can make for people up and down the country . although I support all aspect of the Bill , I will focus specifically on the transport sector . during and follow the covid pandemic , transport worker face the short end of the stick of poor employment practice . I welcome the end of fire and rehire . that unfair practice be use as a sledgehammer against worker , particularly during the pandemic , by company such as British Airways , which try it on more than 35 , 000 staff member , include many of my constituent in Hounslow . BA staff who have work for decade face the prospect of be sack and rehire on poor pay and weak term and condition . after huge pressure from trade union , Labour mp and the Transport Committee , BA drop its plan , but other firm such as P & O have also exploit the weakness in UK employment law that the Bill be intend to address . those practice be still happen , as my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) highlight in his intervention on the Deputy Prime Minister . when worker be face fire and rehire , Labour be clear that a Labour Government would ban that practice , and I be pleased the Government be do that . I welcome clause 22 . on minimum service level , the Bill will also repeal and scrap the previous Government ' s Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 — a farcical bit of legislation design to limit strike action . in Committee , when I push the rail operator on the propose legislation , it be clear that they have not seek it and they appear to have no plan to use it . the fact that so few rail operator choose to use the power once they be enact show that the company themselves doubt their value and use . this Bill also bring in much - need modernisation of our maritime law . in the last Parliament , the then chair of the Transport Committee and the Business and Trade Committee — one Conservative , one labour — jointly write to the then Government about the need to update our law to protect maritime worker . I welcome the Bill ' s closure of the loophole whereby ship register overseas previously do not have to inform the UK Government of collective redundancy , and the fact that this Government have commit to far strengthen worker ’ right at sea . in conclusion — order . I call Shivani Raja to make her maiden speech . it be with great privilege and a deep sense of responsibility that I stand before you today , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I take my place in this historic Chamber , I be acutely aware of the profound trust place in we by the constituent of our great nation . I wish to express my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Leicester East for elect I to represent they in Parliament . my story , like that of many in Leicester , be one of heritage , resilience and opportunity . my parent arrive in Leicester from Kenya and India in the late 1970 , bring with they cultural and faith tradition and a remarkable work ethic . they make Rushey Mead their home , and I be bear and raise there . from Herrick primary school to Soar Valley college and De Montfort University , Leicester have nurture I every step of the way and for that I be deeply thankful . as be customary , I pay tribute to Claudia Webbe , my immediate predecessor , who serve the constituency to the very good of her ability . Claudia follow in the footstep of Keith Vaz who , alongside Paul Boateng and Bernie Grant , break new ground in the representation of people of colour in Parliament . in the election , I have the unique experience of stand against both Claudia and Keith — a testament to the vibrant political landscape of Leicester East . Leicester be a city of remarkable history and diversity . leicester host the large Diwali festival outside India . it be home to the UK ' s long running comedy festival . it be one of England ' s old city , so much so that we find a king under one of our car park ; for those who do not know , one of our early king , King Richard III , be find under a car park in Leicester . the University of Leicester be the birthplace of dna fingerprinting . Leicester be also home to the National Space Centre and we be proud of our contribution to the art , science and sport . we have get it all go on in Leicester , but if member remain unconvinced that Leicester have influence their life , because perhaps they be not a former monarch or a scientist in their spare time , Leicester have also give Britain icon like the late Lord Richard Attenborough and — very much live — Sir David Attenborough , Gary Lineker and Peter Shilton . our city be where walker crisp be bear and where fashion guru Gok Wan grow up . Leicester ' s influence even extend to music , with entertainer like Engelbert Humperdinck and Showaddywaddy . so whether you have tuck into a bag of ready salt , go to the cinema to watch " Jurassic Park " or boogie on down to " hey Rock and Roll " , you ' ve get Leicester to thank . this be what true diversity look like . in fact , in 2013 Leicester be describe as the most multicultural city in the UK . today , 59 % of people live in Leicester be from ethnic minority group , and 41 % be bear outside the UK . but most relevant to today ' s debate be employment and business in my constituency . Leicester be locate at the heart of England , and local business be the lifeblood of our city . Leicester be recognise as the UK ' s most entrepreneurial city — a title that reflect the resilience , creativity and determination of its people . our entrepreneurial scene be not just about number ; it be about story , of those who dare to dream big , hustle hard , and turn their idea into reality . the Employment Rights Bill threaten to undermine that spirit before those entrepreneur have even make their first £ 1 . the additional cost and regulation propose will act as a barrier to entry , discourage the very innovation and hard work that have earn Leicester that title . we must be cautious not to stifle the ambition of small business owner , who be the backbone of our economy . our journey be one of innovation and community — a story of people come together across different sector and background to build something truly remarkable . in a city as diverse as Leicester , many rely on flexible work to balance family commitment , faith observance or second job . by impose blanket regulation that do not consider the unique need of our community , the Bill risk alienate the very workforce it aim to protect . we must ensure that employment regulation support business and worker alike . impose regulation that add cost without first offer support will harm the very people labour claim to champion . for our small business in Leicester , many of which work with razor - thin margin , the burden impose by the Bill will be overwhelming . it be one thing to champion worker ’ right , but quite another to do so in a way that risk the survival of the very business that provide the job . let we not forget that successful business be the good way to secure meaningful long - term employment . our decision in this House will shape the future of our country for generation to come . it be imperative that we approach these challenge in a spirit of collaboration , transcend partisan divide to serve the good interest of all our constituent . with our nation face economic challenge , the Bill risk raise cost for consumer and worsen the cost of living crisis , particularly in community like Leicester East , where many be already struggle to make end meet . we must find solution that protect worker without penalise local business and their customer . I be honour to stand before the House as the Member for Leicester East , and I warmly invite you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all hon . member to visit our great city . you can join we for our glorious Diwali celebration , our annual Pride parade or our vibrant caribbean carnival . come and experience the city where fish and chip be just as popular as samosa and kebab , and where Stilton and Red Leicester cheese sit alongside italian pizza and french patisserie . the road ahead may be challenging , but it be also fill with possibility . I firmly believe that not only Leicester ' s but our country ' s great day be ahead of we , and I be grateful to be able to play my part , champion my constituent in that endeavour . I have to let that speech run over ; I be wait for my invitation to have samosa . I pay tribute to the maiden speech of the hon . member for Leicester East ( Shivani Raja ) . I enjoy her reminiscence about her community , and hear about some of the more lively figure from the recent history of the Labour party . I proudly draw attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include my former role work for Unison , my membership of Unison , my donation from Unison , and be co - chair of its parliamentary group . Unison be Britain ' s large union , represent public service worker and in particular the low - pay woman who will benefit so much from the Bill . I pay tribute to all those who have work tirelessly for year to build consensus around these change — the big change to right at work in a generation . in particular , I thank those within Labour ' s affiliate trade union , on the Front Bench , and in Labour ' s policy team for their hard work and dedication . hon . friend , include my hon . friend the Members for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) , for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) , for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) and for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , have be engage in this work throughout . that be not an exhaustive list ; many other on the Government Benches have work tirelessly to help we to reach this day , and deserve immense credit . this be the kind of Bill that be at the heart of why we be here . the Labour party be found upon the idea that work people deserve representation in this place , that we be fit to govern , and that those who put in the bulk of the graft deserve to reap the reward of their labour . today be a landmark day in our party ' s history , and in the history of employment right in this country . the Bill be cram full of improvement that be each worthy of a lengthy speech ; however , I be down to my last minute and twenty second , so I will not do that . let I say this instead : if you work , the Bill will change your work life for the well . we know why these change be necessary . one in five of we be suffer from the effect of insecure work , with low pay , exploitative zero - hour contract , and little or no sick pay . my hon . friend mention that the measure in the Bill will be good for employee . do he agree that they will also be good for business ? my constituency ' s economy be base on the entrepreneurialism of lot of small business and individual create work for themselves and for other . do he agree that the Bill will support good employment policy in small business , help with productivity and the retention of staff ? I could not agree more . the people who will benefit from the Bill the most be not those who will buy stock and share but those who will spend their money on our thrive high street , which this Government will build . the care worker and teaching assistant I be proud to represent while work for Unison deserve pay and condition that match the task of look after we when we grow up and grow old . strong right to collective bargaining through the school support staff and adult social care negotiating body be essential for recruitment and retention in those overlook sector . could the legislation go far in those area and in other ? of course — that be the nature of any Bill . the work of change be never do , but we should be in no doubt that this be the big , bold and most welcome set of employment right change that all but the most experienced of we in this Chamber have consider . I know that the Government be commit to consult widely with union and business alike to ensure that . this be what have a Labour Government mean — right from day one : ban exploitative zero - hour contract ; end fire and rehire to lift employee from the insecurity feel by those work in the foundation of our economy ; take action on sick pay , and maternity and paternity right ; and hold unscrupulous employer to account through a genuine and comprehensive enforcement body . the Bill be pro - business , pro - worker , and focus on the challenge that million of we face every day . it be one of the great honour in my life to have be involve with it , to speak on its behalf , and to vote for it this evening , mostly because I know the impact that it will have on my community in Gateshead Central and Whickham . the task of rebuild Britain after 14 year of Tory rule be great , but our ambition for this country be great still . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and the contribution from small business to my election campaign early this year . history be repeat itself . labour ' s antipathy and lack of understanding for business , and small business in particular , be rear its ugly head again . this legislation will have ruinous result for those who desperately need a job and hope . the Federation of Small Businesses say : " this legislation be a rush job , clumsy , chaotic and poorly plan . " the federation go on to say that the Bill will increase economic inactivity . that be a rather sanitise way of refer to the ruined life , dash hope and huge waste of human potential that the Bill will bring about . at the end of the debate , we need to hear from a Minister how the Bill will be change so that it support rather than undermine the 4 million additional job create since 2010 under the Conservatives . the economic impact assessment , so rudely provide so late in the day , show that the cost of the Bill will fall disproportionately on small business — something that we have hear no acknowledgment of from Government Members . five out of nine measure will have that effect . do Ministers have any plan to change that ? do my right hon . friend agree that provision that be bad for small business be also bad for worker , bad for taxpayer , and bad for those who rely on welfare payment ? I entirely agree , and place like the Isle of Wight , with so many hospitality business , will pay a particularly high price . we should celebrate and support our wealth creator , not burden they with excessive taxis and regulation that kill the drive to work , invest and create wealth . yet that be the destructive path that Labour be take , with a job tax plan for every worker ' s national insurance contribution in the Budget in a couple of week , and this Bill to deter SME employment . the impact assessment publish early be 900 page long , which compare pretty well with some of the impact assessment publish under the last government , a number of which I have the misfortune to read . it confirm that the cost to business will represent less than 0 . 4 % of total employment cost across the economy , and the majority of that will be transfer directly into the pocket of worker , help to raise living standard and offset the last 14 year of standstill wage . have the right hon . Gentleman manage to read the impact assessment yet ? well , the impact assessment be provide rather late , but it be always good to have a spontaneous contribution to any debate . remove the low earning limit and the wait period will also disproportionately hurt small business and microbusinesse . that be set out in black and white in the economic assessment , so will minister make change ? it be with dark comedy that the Government say that their top priority be economic growth . Labour inherit the fast grow economy in the G7 , with 4 million more people in work than in 2010 — 4 million . in 2010 , by comparison , we inherit a note that say that the money be all go . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . history tell we that Labour government always end with unemployment high than when they begin . they do not do it because they be evil . as have be say , no one in the Cabinet come from a business background ; they simply do not understand the reality . this Government seem bent on destroy employment even fast than their predecessor . small business be the lifeblood of our economy . they do enormous social good . as the FSB say , small employer be " the one most likely to give opportunity to people furthest from the labour market , such as those return after long - term health issue or caring responsibility . " yet under these proposal , the " plan to give day one unfair dismissal right to new employee will add to the risk associate with hire people . " that increase risk will inevitably deter small employer from take on new people for fear of face an employment tribunal simply because a new recruit turn out to be unsuited to the role . how will minister ensure that a company sell food at summer festival be not bankrupt by have to offer a contract to someone who be not need after that period be over ? the Government have have a disastrous start . it be no wonder that the legislation be chaotic and poorly plan , give that Labour Cabinet Ministers be never early for work but always early for the free buffet at the Emirates or at Taylor Swift concert . the Deputy Prime Minister be sell out the country ' s interest in favour of trade union interest — sell out the people who vote labour for the people who fund Labour . the Bill be a catastrophe , and I hope the House oppose it today . I be proud to refer the House to my membership of Unite and my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and to advise member that I have run several of my own business . this be a great day , and I wholeheartedly congratulate my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister and colleague for introduce this landmark legislation , which will transform the life of million of worker for the well . we know why it be need : just look at the fire and replace at P & o , the fire and rehire of british Gas worker , and the denial of right at Deliveroo and Hermes . the legislation have long be in development , and I be honour , when I be shadow Secretary of State for Employment Rights , to work with our trade union and other stakeholder on the new deal for work people . I place on record my thank to the Institute of Employment Rights — particularly Lord Hendy KC and Professor Keith Ewing — and to my staff Karl Hansen and Eli Machover for their work on that paper . I be delighted that Labour will give all worker day one right on the job , ban zero - hour contract and outlaw fire and rehire . in the Bill , we establish the day one right to claim unfair dismissal and to paternity , parental and bereavement leave , we create a right to a guarantee - hour contract and we tighten unfair dismissal protection . labour will modernise union balloting , simplify union recognition and improve the right of entry to workplace . the Bill remove unfair balloting law on recognition and industrial action , and create new duty on employer to facilitate union ' access . I be proud that that be be do , but much of the Bill be about set up a framework , and there will be significant further step , consultation and work to craft the detail . in particular , we can not finally consign insecure work to history until we have resolve a define single status of worker . I recognise the Government ' s commitment to consult on that . on zero hour , I trust that Ministers will provide reassurance that employer will not be able to exploit new right to guarantee hour by issue short - hour contract . there be many other issue arise from that , but I ask Ministers to consider in particular a statutory right to pay kinship leave on a par with adoption leave . this be truly a landmark Bill , and it be crucial that we make these change as soon as possible . this historic Bill will help to deliver the well - pay , secure , dignified , skilled and productive job and the prosperous economy that we all wish to see . I be delighted to support it this evening . many small business in Meriden and Solihull East be rightly concerned about the Bill for a number of reason . since the election , I have speak a number of time demand that the Government be more ambitious for growth , for our entrepreneur and for our small business . indeed , it be the moral duty of every Government to unleash the full potential of our business and , where possible , to create an environment to embolden entrepreneur and encourage economic growth . instead , the Bill will kill off any ambition and any focus on growth . if we want to focus on inclusive growth , we must nurture our start - up , scale - up and small business , and let they be nimble in how they operate , rather than shackle they . that be how economic magic will start to happen . the business to which I have speak be worried about the insufficient consultation . the Government ' s impact assessment , which we receive late , show that small business be likely to be hit hard . the cost , accord to the Government ' s own analysis , will be in the low billion — up to £ 5 billion . for a government who keep talk about the alleged black hole , those low billion seem rather reckless . it prove that this be nothing more than an ideological Bill that do not ensure growth . do my hon . friend agree that , with just nine day until Halloween , the impact assessment we have see today be an early horror show ? my hon . friend make a valid point . a lot of people be in a holding pattern for business decision on investment and employment . all the Bill will do be leave our business at the mercy of the trade union and take we back to the 1970 . it will merely align we with the growth - gobble guideline set by bureaucrat in Brussels and hold our business back . it be not just I who think this ; I be go by the Government ' s impact assessment . the CBI claim that employer expect Britain to become the bad place to invest and do business over the next five year — a damn indictment of the Government . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . what business want be less government , less regulation and more freedom . when make employment decision , they require certainty and flexibility so that they can hire more people , but the Bill threaten to undermine the agility of business in ensure that their worker maximise productivity . it do not encourage business to take risk , hire a bud new employee and reap the reward ; in fact , it do the complete opposite . the Federation of Small Businesses call this legislation " clumsy and chaotic " and suggest that it will " increase economic inactivity . " let we be clear : the Bill be not really about employment right or well condition . its focus be on repeal the 10 - year ballot requirement on political fund , remove the opt - in default for trade union political fund , remove the need for proper consent to form a trade union , and so on . it be not the Employment Rights Bill ; it be the trade union appeasement Bill . the Government be not prepared to stand up to the union . we have see they cave in to train driver and give sweetheart deal without any saving for the taxpayer . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . we have see the union hold the Government to ransom at the expense of hard - work taxpayer . that be why the Bill be bad for small and medium - sized business — those argument have be make already . our sme can not afford dozen of french - style regulation that bolster the power of the trade union and threaten to increase the cost of employment by over £ 1 , 000 . I be speak to raise the concern of many small and medium - sized business in Meriden and Solihull East about this legislation . it be rush — business have not be properly consult — and it give more power to the trade union . it will fail to maximise productivity and will severely weaken the case for business to hire new employee . it be a flawed Bill serve a flawed ideology . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I support and welcome this transformative Bill . I place on the record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , and the Deputy Prime Minister , with whom I have have the pleasure of work to play a small part in bring this transformative legislation to the House . in reality , the balance of power in our workplace have be fundamentally set against employee for too long , mean that the UK have some of the weak labour protection in Europe , with legislation curb the right of work people to organise in defence of their right , and insecure contract and poor wage growth leave one in five people struggle in poverty . under the last Tory Government , we see an explosion in the growth of exploitative zero - hour contract , unscrupulous fire and rehire practice , and the unforgiving and abusive gig economy . ordinary work people across the country have experience the most sustained period of wage stagnation for hundred of year compare with our counterpart across Europe . despite that exploitation of work people by bad boss , the Tories never stray from their mission of dismantle the power of trade union to secure well job , pay and condition for the ordinary people they represent , even in the middle of a cost of living crisis . the Bill that we be discuss today , however , set we on the road to implement the transformative new deal for work people and to repeal the last Tory Government ' s draconian anti - trade union legislation , which restrict people from organise in defence of their pay , term and condition . span over 30 different measure , the Bill could give any of we a lot to talk about . however , as time do not permit that , I will concentrate on two or three area . with the establishment of a framework for fair pay agreement in the adult social care sector , the Government have acknowledge the immense benefit that collective sectoral bargaining can play . social care worker be among the most crucial yet worst pay and badly treat group of worker in our economy . I very much hope that the Government will introduce that framework for further sector , and I encourage they to do so . secondly , by ensure that workplace offer a guarantee - hour policy to end the exploitation trap of zero - hour contract that million of worker find themselves in , the Bill ensure that we can provide the eight in 10 worker who desire great stability more certainty over their contract hour . thirdly , the Bill take an important step towards widen access to statutory sick pay by remove the requirement to earn the low earning limit , and by make SSP payable from the first day of sickness . my sincere request to the Government be that , with the rate currently at £ 116 . 75 per week , we need in the consultation process — order . I call Alison Griffiths . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise today to express my concern about the impact of the Employment Rights Bill on one of the most vulnerable group in our workforce : seasonal worker . those individual form the backbone of key sector such as tourism , agriculture and retail , particularly in my constituency of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , where many depend on seasonal job for their livelihood . I fear that the Bill will put their livelihood at risk , as well as the viability of the business that employ they . the devil be in the detail , and detail be what the legislation lack . labour claim that the Bill will protect worker , but for seasonal employee the increase regulation will likely have the opposite effect . small and medium - sized business that rely on flexible , short - term contract to meet seasonal demand will face rise cost and great bureaucracy when try to bring on staff . clause 1 on the right to guarantee hour be so laissez - faire about how that will be implement in a real - world business environment that it leave significant ambiguity and doubt in employer ' mind . do my hon . friend agree that we need more detail from the Minister tonight on that specific provision , before the House can in good conscience give the Bill a second reading ? I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend that detail be precisely what be need for the Bill to be implement effectively . in my constituency , seasonal employer such as theme park be at the mercy of the british weather and a short season . on a rainy day taking will be minimal , and manage cost accordingly be vital to remain viable . moreover , the student and retired population in my constituency value the flexibility that those contract offer . the Bill will disincentivise employer from offer short - term opportunity and reduce employment option for those who depend on temporary work . my constituency also have a lot of seasonal worker and a seaside economy . do my hon . friend agree that young people often get their first step on the job ladder through those job ? they may well not get that opportunity if the legislation be pass . I thank my hon . friend for a stellar point . I think most of we , certainly on this side of the Chamber , start our work career in those job — I certainly do . disincentivise employer from offer short - term opportunity will reduce those employment option . about 1 million people age 16 and over report be employ on a zero - hour contract between April and June 2024 . on average , those worker work few hour per week than other , and 60 % say that they do not even want more hour . in the hospitality sector , 90 % say that it be their desire contract . in conclusion , we must ensure that protect worker ’ right do not come at the cost of the job they rely on . I urge the House to carefully consider the consequence and to amend the Bill to safeguard opportunity for seasonal worker . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — I be a proud trade union member . it be with great pride that I rise to speak on the Bill today . I have spend my career champion a well deal for work people at the Living Wage Foundation , the organisation that work tirelessly to champion the plethora of business benefit of be a good employer , as well as at the GMB union , where I be proud to work alongside an army of volunteer trade union rep who have great courage in stand up for their colleague , day in , day out . the Bill have be warmly receive by business because it be not radical . the Bill be reasonable , and it be illustrative of the way that Labour will govern for the time we be give that privilege . it be reasonable that people can earn a minimum wage that meet the cost of living . it be reasonable that people can not be force to sign away their current term and condition or lose their job . it be reasonable that people be not sexually harass at work . it be reasonable that people work the same shift pattern , week in , week out , be give contract that protect and reflect that . the Bill will do all that and more . the Bill will right some of the wrong that have be push work people into wholly unacceptable hardship over the last 14 year . in the spirit of that mission - lead approach to Government , I ask the Minister to consider the following point that will improve physical and mental health outcome , as well as support more people back to work . will the Minister consider pay time off for preventive cancer screening ? I meet a woman who work in a hospital as a key worker for a private company . she could not afford to take unpaid leave to get her smear test , so she miss they and then discover she have stage 4 cervical cancer . pay time off for preventive screening , which good employer already offer , will support our health mission as well as save life . People must not have to choose between catch cancer early and feed their family . on parental right , I welcome the strengthening of maternity right in the Bill . for too long woman have be penalise for have child , and the hard truth be that mother be be force to leave the workforce or take low - pay part - time work to make end meet . I appreciate that the Bill will make paternity right a day one right , and I look forward to the review on parental leave , because we need to normalise father be able to support their new family and bond with their baby . protect father to enable they to take paternity leave will help level the play field and improve man ' s mental health , as father want to be with their baby . sixty - one per cent of people in my constituency be in poverty despite be in work . do my hon . friend agree with I that it be only when work be make secure that we can truly grow our economy ? I absolutely agree , because people want to work , and they want to work in good - quality job that allow they to spend a decent amount of time enjoy the thing that matter in life . the Bill will make thousand of my constituent in Darlington well off , safe and more secure at work . More than that , it will benefit business ’ bottom line , as they will have a happy , healthy and more productive workforce . that be essential for the growth we need to see , it be good for work people , it be good for business , and it be great for the economy . I call Katie Lam to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for let I make not just my first contribution to this House , but the first contribution from the newly form constituency of Weald of Kent . my predecessor be illustrious : William Hart Dyke help invent tennis , Charles Barnett be a first - class cricketer , and Edward Percy Smith be a scriptwriter like I , pen the Hammer Horror hit " the Brides of Dracula " . we even have a Prime Minister in our history : Benjamin Disraeli begin his parliamentary career represent a patch of Kent that include the village of Linton , which be now in my constituency . however , only one of my predecessor , Ann Widdecombe , can boast Britain ' s high honour : an appearance on " strictly come dancing " . [ laughter . ] two of my most recent predecessor have leave this place . damian Green and Damian Collins both work doggedly for the area and for the country in government — Damian Collins especially in the field of digital , culture , medium and sport , the Select Committee for which he chair for many year , and Damian Green with senior role in government , all the way up to First Secretary of State . both serve my constituent with distinction , and on their behalf , I would like to say thank you . I be not the first politician in my family . my grandmother come to Britain in 1937 at the age of 13 as a refugee from Germany . her grandfather , Paul Heide , be a state senator and a fierce critic of the Nazis . when Hitler come to power , the whole family be arrest and strip of their citizenship . after year in prison , Paul jump out of the window of his second - floor cell and make it to Czechoslovakia despite his broken ankle . there , the family set up a resistance radio station broadcast back over the border , until one night they be raid by the SS and one of the operator be shoot dead . they manage to escape , and flee to England and freedom . my grandfather ' s family be far less fortunate : Jews from Amsterdam , almost all of they be murder in Sobibor and Auschwitz . one of they be eight year old . my grandparent ' story help make I who I be , so even as a small child , I already know the power of politic . it be an honour to take my place in Parliament , to serve my constituent and this country — the country that save my family and save the free world — but freedom do not come for free : it must be fight for . every time I come into this Chamber , I see the shield that surround we and think of our country ' s sacrifice . Colonel Victor Cazalet , whose shield be on the other side of the Chamber , live in Cranbrook in my constituency . he have already serve with distinction in the first world war , receive the Military Cross for gallantry in 1917 . he be kill in an air crash in world war two , as be Commander Rupert Brabner , whose shield be a few place far down . Commander Brabner be the Member for Hythe , a constituency that border my own , and an ace Royal Navy pilot award the Distinguished Service Cross . we will remember they . the weald of Kent have play its part in our nation ' s sacrifice . Headcorn aerodrome operate in the second world war as RAF Lashenden , at the same time as Benenden school be convert for use as a military hospital , and Coxheath be once the british Army ' s large training ground . the constituency may be new , but the kentish weald be anything but : Appledore be raid by the Vikings in 893 , and the Archbishop of Canterbury have his palace at Charing as far back as the year 900 . enrich by ironmake in Biddenden and clothmake in Marden and Staplehurst , today the weald of Kent boast hundred of square mile of the most gorgeous countryside , surround two delightful town — Tenterden and Cranbrook — as well as over 100 of Britain ' s most charming village , many 1 , 000 year old or more . from Aldington to Yalding , every one of the weald of Kent ' s 56 civil parish be a rural jewel . the area be awash with medieval church , cricket club , intricate garden , and a mosaic of farm grow the nation ' s food — and now , vineyard grow the very fine british wine . do not take my word for it : the glory of the weald of Kent have be immortalise in film , book and television show . h . E . Bates be inspire by his home , Little Chart , to write " the Darling Buds of May " , and the tv adaptation be film in Pluckley and neighbour Bethersden . Godmersham Park be the inspiration for Jane Austen ' s " Mansfield Park " , while Agatha Christie fan will know Chilham as the backdrop for episode of " Poirot " and Smarden as a television stand - in for Miss Marple ' s home , St Mary Mead . the steam train in the opening shot of " Downton Abbey " be the Kent and East Sussex railway , roll from Rolvenden to Wittersham Road , and one of my favourite film , " Kind Hearts and Coronets " , shoot its countryside scene in Boughton Monchelsea . lastly , I should like to give a few personal thank . first , I thank hon . member on the Government Benches , for it be while deliver leaflet for their party that Grandma and Grandpa Lam meet in the late 1940 . have the Mill Hill Labour Club never exist , neither would this Conservative . [ laughter . ] secondly , I thank Alex , my family and my friend for all they have do for I . thirdly , I thank the good conservative association in the country . finally , I thank the people of Weald of Kent who have send I here to represent they . I will never look at the responsibility of be the Member of Parliament for Weald of Kent as merely a job ; I will always treat it as an honour . we now have another maiden speech . I call Sarah Smith . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a proud trade union member , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and congratulate the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) on her move maiden speech . it be with great pride and humility that I rise today for the first time as the elect Member for Hyndburn and Haslingden . I start by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Sara Britcliffe , for her commitment to Hyndburn and for lead the way as the first woman to represent the constituency . I can not make this speech without also pay tribute to the previous Labour Member , Graham Jones , whose selfless support and kindness I be privileged to have receive . Graham be the most fierce champion of Lancashire : he have fight tirelessly for the people of Hyndburn , and be a man you always want in your corner . with the north - west of England be scourge with gambling - relate suicide , particularly among young man , Graham lead the successful campaign to reduce the maximum stake on fix - odd bet terminal from £ 100 to just £ 2 . that campaign will undoubtedly have save and improve many life . it may surprise member when I say that Hyndburn be not a real place . no one really relate to be from Hyndburn ; instead , they identify proudly as a resident of Accrington , Great Harwood , Rishton , Altham , Oswaldtwistle , Clayton - le - Moors or Church . each of those community have its own rich history , culture and identity . my constituency be the home of the large Tiffany glass collection in Europe , the Accrington Pals , and the Nori brick , which be use to build the Empire State Building . it be also the home of one of the 12 founder member of the football league , whose legacy be continue by Accrington Stanley football club . I be sure the House will join I in congratulate the boy on their third win on the trot against Barrow at the weekend . perhaps most significantly , my constituency be the engine of the industrial revolution during the 19th century . the invention of the spin jenny , the mechanisation of calico printing , and the creation of turkey red and khaki dye enable the globalisation of the textile industry , but the huge wealth that the mill owner make be often at the cost of the worker , whose live and working condition be terrible . I also represent the magnificent and diverse town of Haslingden , whose coat of arm read " nothing without labour " . that motto be a statement of solidarity : in 1826 , amid loom - break riot in east Lancashire , hundred of people in Haslingden attack machinery in protest at pay cut and their awful working condition . many perish due to poverty and hardship , but by 1850 and with the support of church and reformer , a minimum wage be eventually introduce . we stand in this Chamber almost 200 year later , and although thing have of course improve hugely , too many of my constituent be still struggle to make end meet with zero - hour contract , low wage and insecure work . while in the 19th century worker have to literally fight for basic right , we now — thank to trade union and the Labour party — have representation of work people in this more civil way . that be why I welcome this Bill , which strengthen employee ’ right , stop the exploitative use of zero - hour contract and , importantly , give people the right to maternity and paternity pay from day one . Hyndburn and Haslingden be a magnificent and beautiful constituency that I be proud to call home . it be where my husband James grow up and where we get marry , in the beautiful church of St Peter and St Paul ' s where his dad , Paul , be the vicar for 18 year . as well as show dedication to his parish , Paul be instrumental in establish the sixth - form provision at St Christopher ' s school , which have change the life of countless young people . tragically , we lose Paul within day of my election , so he be not here with we today , but I will continue to fight to break down all the barrier to opportunity that our child and young people face . without my family , I would not be stand here . I want to put on record how grateful I be to my parent , Rosemary and Gary , to my brother Mark , and to Margaux , James , Ellie and both the Ruths for believe in I and stand by I every step of the way . as a Christian , I also give thank to Jesus for give I this opportunity . as I go on this journey , I will remember always the verse in Micah and aim to carry out justice , to love mercy and to walk humbly with God throughout my time here . I first get involve in politic because I think it be wrong that , far too often , the postcode where people be bear determine so many of their life outcome . for as long as I be privileged to represent Hyndburn and Haslingden , I will work tirelessly to ensure that child bear in Clayton have the same life chance as those bear in Chelsea , and I will make it my mission to represent they in the corridor of power , but I will also make it my mission to be present , transparent , and accessible as a local champion for the resident of Hyndburn and Haslingden . I congratulate the last two speaker on their powerful maiden speech . both of they be most move . as we always discover in this place , there be more that unite we than divide we . what unite I with the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) be clearly Jane Austen . I say to the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) that I live in east Lancashire for 15 year , and I know the area well . I be sorry to hear about the loss for her family . I be pleased that many of the measure that we Liberal Democrats have be campaign for over many year have be include in this Bill . I be most pleased about the reinstatement , in clause 15 and 16 , of the original wording of my Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Act 2023 . introduce as a private Member ' s Bill , my Act amend the Equality Act 2010 to well protect employee from workplace harassment and sexual harassment . in addition to create a direct preventive duty , it would have create new liability for employer in case of third - party harassment , unless employer take all reasonable step to prevent it . that would have create protection similar to those that be originally in the Equality Act 2010 , but be remove by the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 . amendment to my Bill in Committee in the Lords remove that clause , so that no such liability be create . the ridiculous argument be make that it would have prevent free speech . it therefore remain the case that employer have no liability for harassment of staff by third party . my original Bill would also have create a new legal duty for employer to take " all reasonable step " to prevent sexual harassment of their employee . as a result of amendment make by the Lords , that be reduce to " reasonable step " . since my Bill pass into law , excellent progress have be make . a study by Culture Shift find that 66 % of business feel that the prevention of sexual harassment be of high importance . however , accord to WorkNest , three quarter of employer cite protection from harassment by third party as a concern . there be clearly an appetite among business for include these protection in the Bill . too many people suffer still from sexual harassment in the workplace . I congratulate the Government on take further step to remove that blight on our workplace . as an MP from Cornwall , where we have seasonal worker aplenty , I should say that although the Bill talk about a suggest reference period of 12 week , after which average hour will be offer , employee do not have to accept that if they do not want to . they can choose to stay on zero - hour contract . we have a large demand for social care in Truro and Falmouth . our population tend towards an old demographic . as many people leave friend and family to retire to Cornwall , the availability of care be especially important . assistance for people who have disability , so that they can live independent life and be support into work if they choose that path , be crucial . skilled care worker be chronically underpaid for what they do — they be often on the minimum wage — and good people leak out of the system , as it pay more to work in the local supermarket . I work as a teaching assistant at a local secondary school — I declare my interest in the register as a Unison member — and I be also an equity partner in a trade union law firm , so I have some experience of employ people , too . the pay for work in a school in a support role can also be very low — sometimes minimum wage . what the care and school sector have in common , apart from poor rate of pay , be that , as other have say , they involve highly skilled job that be incredibly important for our society , and those who work in they be far more likely to be woman . the Bill have many provision that will help with sick pay and parental leave , and will give protection from unfair dismissal from day one . it also improve family - friendly right , provide for flexible working , and have measure to tackle zero - hour and minimum - hour contract . however , it also specifically give respect and recognition to social care worker and school support staff through a fair pay agreement for adult social care , and by reinstate the school support staff negotiate body . this will be a game changer for those low - pay worker , mostly woman , who work in care and in school . it will mean that pay , term and condition for care worker and school support staff be negotiate nationally , and that a minimum be set across the country . I be so pleased that the Government have choose those two sector as the first to have the opportunity for fair pay agreement . woman with caring responsibility be often limited in the hour they can work . historically , that have mean that , however skilled and important their job be , they have not be properly reward or look after . change that will be transformational . Truro and Falmouth have Cornwall ' s only acute hospital and the seat of Cornwall unitary council within its boundary . that mean that we have a large number of people who work in the public sector . many of those job have be contract out , and the term and condition for those role have be gradually erode . this Bill enable Ministers to create a code to prevent the emergence of a two - tier workforce when outsourcing occur . a new national procurement statement will make sure that the Government use their contract to raise employment standard , not dilute they . this employment Bill be a huge step forward , and I be proud of it . it be a pleasure to follow several excellent maiden speech this afternoon . for an economy to thrive , both employer and employee must feel protect . protection enable both party to draw comfort . however , this Bill do not uphold that principle . in its approach and in its drafting , this Bill have fall off its axis . it have , without doubt , land in a place where it overwhelmingly favour the employee , to the detriment of any work balance with the employer . this should come as no great surprise . after all , give the paucity of private sector experience in the Cabinet , it be almost inevitable that this Bill would be see through the prism of trade union bias . have study the Bill , one can not fail to conclude that the Ministers who commission it have no understanding of the struggle face by small and medium - sized business up and down the country . while there be much to be deride in the Bill , there be two point I wish to raise for Ministers ' consideration . first , the abolition of the qualifying period for bring an unfair dismissal claim will inevitably mean a rise in the number of claim present to the employment tribunal . this will flood an already overwhelmed system . I ask the Minister : what true impact assessment have be make of that ? under this Bill , bring a claim for unfair dismissal become , to all intent and purpose , a day one right . there be a lack of clarity about the length of any probation period and the obligation on an employer when seek to dismiss in that period . inevitably , these obligation will increase the burden on sme , which will not have the depth of resource of their large counterpart . the predictable consequence be that small business be likely to sink under the weight and cost of these additional requirement . my second point relate to the propose change in respect of industrial action and trade union relation . by repeal the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , lower the ballot threshold for union action and require employer to direct their staff towards union , the Government have demonstrate their willingness to bow down to their union paymaster , to the detriment of hard - work business and industry . the public will see this for what it be : a cheap effort to curry favour with the union while line the pocket of the Labour party . it be clear from my conversation with small business owner in Solihull West and Shirley that the Government ' s proposal will only hinder growth and productivity . these measure fail to strike the balance between employer and employee . they will choke our court , cripple small business and stifle employment growth . I remind the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) that across those european country with the high union density , people have the good wage and working condition and the great productivity , which somewhat undermine his last argument . I refer you to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be call this the Employment Rights Bill , but it be not about right as such ; it be about power . when trade union first discover the concept of solidarity in the early industrial revolution , they discover that , through unity , they could exert power to influence , to improve work condition and wage , and to secure a well overall quality of life . since 1979 — I start work a few year before then — successive conservative government have understand the distribution of power , and as a result they have use legislation to undermine trade union right , so as to reduce the power of worker to defend themselves at work and improve their working condition . all that the Bill do — I welcome it wholeheartedly — be take a small step to rebalance that power . it will not just improve wage and working condition , but lead to a well economic situation for all concerned — employer and employee — full stop . that be what it be about . would my right hon . friend agree with I that the step outline in this Bill will help to address insecure work , and will allow people to enjoy decent , secure wage and dignified work , as well as to plan for their future and that of their family ? yes , and as a result , people will work well , increase their productivity and improve the profitability of company , which be beneficial to we all . it be as simple as that . however — there be a " but " — there be a few point on which I would press the Government to go a bit far . the first be sectoral collective bargaining and fair pay agreement . in the early 1970 , 86 % of our workforce be cover by collective agreement , but that be now down to 20 % . where collective agreement have operate , they improve productivity , wage and condition , and increase industrial harmony in the economy . we as a Government be start off by introduce they for adult social care , which I thoroughly welcome , because there be such low pay and exploitation in the sector . however , I would like to see an enable clause in the Bill , so that we can move on swiftly to other sector in which we can get agreement across the trade union movement and engage with employer . the second point be on single worker status , to which my hon . Friend allude . consultation be take place on that , and it be absolutely critical , because we have see some of the most exploitative practice in part of the economy where worker have be force into bogus self - employ status . the third point be on insource . the Government have promise the big reform of insource in a generation . there be no mention in the Bill of insource , but there be mention of reform to procurement , and it be important that through our reform to procurement , we bring forward insource as rapidly as possible . outsourcing have produce an insecure , low - pay form of employment that be already result in industrial strife . over the next couple of week , we could see strike in virtually every Government Department because of what be happen on outsource . on fire and rehire , the question be what a company have to do to prove that there be financial stress because of the economy . I also have two final point . one be on the seafarer ’ charter ; it have be mention that the second stage of discussion be take place . that charter be critical if we be to provide basic protection for seafarer . finally , prison officer have be deny the right to strike since 1994 , and even Tony Blair say that he would restore that . I want to see that in this Bill , and I shall table an amendment accordingly . I congratulate those who have give their maiden speech today and speak with such passion for and about their community . there be much in the bill that I support , and I support the sentiment behind it . I be sure there be common ground in want to improve condition and right for worker , but there be a balance to be strike , and I have grave concern about some provision in the Bill — those that increase burden and red tape on employer and on employee , and those that be a threat to and a drag on economic productivity . my first concern be the unnecessary introduction of a new concept of statutory probation . as the law currently stand , worker get protection against thing like unfair dismissal . those long - stand principle have survive different government , and indeed survive in this Bill . the debate have be about when those right be accrue — whether it be after two year of employment or one — and there have be a fluctuation . this Bill attempt to introduce those right from day one , but then to row back on they by introduce a statutory probation period , during which , in the Deputy Prime Minister ' s own word , there be only a " light touch " approach to unfair dismissal . it create a new concept that be vague and unclear , and it will increase the glut of litigation in the employment tribunal . indeed , it will need to do so to create case law so that employee and employer can understand what a " light touch " approach to unfair dismissal mean . my second concern be the increase burden on small employer . indeed , that be contain in the Government ' s own analysis , and much have be say about that , so I will turn to my third issue : specific burden in specific sector , such as social care . the Government ' s own analysis say that the Bill will increase cost for employer , but employer in social care can not bear any more cost . the Government have say they will bring forward reform of social care ; that must come first , before this law be bring into force . do my hon . friend agree that the crux of the issue be that the Bill be lack in detail ? the issue he be discuss have be identify and indeed reference in the Government ' s own economic analysis , and we can not get into the detail of this debate without have that level of information on the face of the Bill . I agree that the Bill lack detail . it also contain a lot of power that be intend to come about through secondary legislation . for example , we do not know how long that probation period will be , because it be not set out in the legislation . turn to the NHS , we understand that the Chancellor will increase the money to the NHS in the Budget but , as an employer , the NHS will have increase cost through this Bill . if national insurance contribution on employer be to be raise in the Budget , it will have that cost as well . that mean there will be less money available to cut waiting list . I urge the Government to delay this Bill , get the detail right and put some detail into it , and ensure that sector such as health and social care get the support first so that , as employer , they can deal with the increase cost from this legislation . Madam Deputy Speaker , I refer you to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , where you will see that I have work for a trade union that be not affiliate to the Labour party and that do not donate to my campaign . you will also see a number of other trade union list , not because of any campaign donation or vested interest — I can see why Opposition Members be lead there ; that be far more familiar to they — but because of the fantastic trade union representative who have support I and , I be sure , many member on the Labour Benches . for I , that be Jim , my Unite rep in my very first job when training as a finance management trainee , all the way through to Laura , Trudy and Claire , the GMB rep who look after I and support I in my job before I be elect to this place . I rise in support of the Bill , which be a central tenet of the Government ' s policy to put work people at the heart of our economy and make work pay . as I say , I be a proud trade unionist , and I be proud to stand alongside million of work people across the country who we depend on to drive our economy and provide the service we all need . I wish to call out some claim that I have hear from Opposition Members throughout this debate — and before ; they be quite tired claim — that support the advancement of people ' s right at work be in some way a vested interest . when be the work people of this country ever just a vested interest ? it be in the interest of the work people of this country that we should be govern . as a former trade union industrial officer , I know that find a way forward in collaboration with those on both the employee and employer side be not always the easy thing to do , but it be always the right and most productive way forward , so I be pleased that within their first 100 day , as promise , this Labour Government have present this excellent Bill , and in do so have rip up many of the provision in the Trade Union Act 2016 . rather than ameliorate industrial relation , that legislation be symptomatic of an aimlessly combative approach in that area that the previous Government drive forward . the effect , as we sadly know , be some of the bad disruption in decade . the public respond in July ; they have have enough of that toxic and self - defeat approach . I be delighted that measure in the Bill will modernise employment law , with much of the Trade Union Act 2016 dismantle and , quite rightly , throw in the bin . this upgrade for worker ’ right establish day one right for parental and bereavement leave for million of worker , and statutory sick pay will be strengthen . the Bill be part of the platform for that approach . I welcome its content and the commitment to work with all stakeholder to ensure that it be implement in such a way that benefit all my hard - work constituent of Clwyd East . the SNP broadly welcome the core element of the Bill , have long call for many of these change . we have be clear in our opposition to zero - hour contract , fire and rehire , and other form of precarious employment that strip worker of job security . indeed , former MP Gavin Newlands try twice to introduce such measure with a private Member ' s Bill . we have support the removal of the low earning limit for statutory sick pay and the end of the waiting period , allow those who be ill to access support from day one . provision for unpaid parental leave , paternity leave , and the right to claim unfair dismissal from day one be progressive step towards worker ' right that we must endorse . similarly , scrap anti - trade union law such as the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , be an important step in restore the ability of union to properly represent worker . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if he be supportive of worker ’ right , those Unison member who be currently on strike in Perth and Kinross have a valid claim to a decent pay rise from his government ? I think the question that the hon . member refer to be with the Scottish Government , and of course we listen to trade union in all case . indeed , a fair pay settlement be agree with all union , until we hear about this one recently . our former colleague , Chris Stephens , fight tirelessly for trade union , and speak passionately in this House about right for worker . however , Labour have not go far enough or act swiftly enough with this Bill . gap remain in its plan , with around half the promise reform be kick into the long grass through consultation , mean that we will not see change implement until next year , the year after , or perhaps even 2027 . critical element — such as the commitment to a single status of worker , the right to switch off , and address pay discrimination through mandatory reporting of ethnicity and disability pay gap — be miss entirely . the Bill be mean to be a defining piece of Labour ' s first 100 day in office , but what good be meet that deadline if the meaningful reform be miss or will not come into effect for year ? this government be look overly cautious and hesitant , and in the past week people have be write to I , ask whether that be because the Government want to delay and find a convenient way out of implement the measure . the SNP Government in Scotland have take meaningful step to promote fair work practice , such as support collective bargaining , achieve real living wage employer status , and close the gender pay gap fast than the rest of the UK , which contrast sharply with the environment create by the previous UK Government . devolve employment law to the Scottish Parliament would ensure that no worker in Scotland be disadvantage by Westminster Governments . indeed , Scottish Labour ' s 2021 manifesto support devolve employment right — that might surprise some mps present today . I look forward to their support to ensure that employment law be devolve to Scotland during this Parliament , so that worker in Scotland never again have to see their employment right erode by any future Tory - lead Government . the Scottish Trades Union Congress general secretary , Roz Foyer , comment that " the Employment Rights Bill isn ' t the terminus . it ' s the first stop . this can be the foundation on which we can build . " I agree . it be imperative that worker ’ right be improve by the Bill , but it must go far and fast , and look to devolve those power so that we can guarantee that the right of work people in Scotland be protect and strengthen . I call Dr Marie Tidball to make her maiden speech . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud member of the GMB , Unison , and community trade union . when I be bear , the room in Barnsley hospital be fill with flower . no one know how long I would live for or what operation I might need . our community in Penistone and Stocksbridge nurture I grow up , and world - class NHS care at Barnsley and Sheffield child ' s hospital enable I to walk and follow my ambition . my local state education in Penistone help I to catch up , and to go on to study law at university and fulfil my potential . my inimitable parent teach I that there be no such word as " can ' t " , as well as the value of fairness , equality and justice — value at the heart of this Bill . I will use my skill and experience , as the MP for our constituency , to give back to the community that give I so much , include incredible teacher and teaching assistant who help to make education a way to overcome people ' s assumption about my disability , and to feel free . achieve health and education equality be a huge asset to our country and critical to the health of our economy . I be proud to be the first Member of Parliament for Penistone and Stocksbridge in over 100 year to have grow up there . our rich agricultural heritage have put food on the country ' s table , and the grit and determination of local miner , the steelwork in Stocksbridge and ironwork in Thorncliffe power the industrial revolution , with the latter also produce Churchill tank , which defend our country in world war two . those site remain economically important today , with the specialist LIBERTY Steel now produce steel that power our UK aerospace industry . the landscape of our very special constituency have help to shape our law before . poignantly , the day of the general election mark 186 year since the Huskar pit disaster on 4 July 1838 , when flooding cause the pit to collapse , kill 26 child . that tragedy lead to the Mines and Collieries Act 1842 , which ban woman and girl , and boy under 10 , from be employ in underground work . I learn about that tragedy at school and I know then , as I know now , that law and politic have the power to improve people ' s life . the past we inherit ; the future we build . this Bill make the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , with the drive purpose to change the life of people across our country and make they well off . ensure that the very special people of the place that make I continue to innovate to change the world will be central to the work I do here . like the bloom heather that sweep down the moor past the crystal water of our river and reservoir , towards our town and village , talent burst forth in our constituency out of the dramatic landscape , gruelle weather , and live hard - worked and hard - won . People in my constituency literally shoot for the star : grenoside ' s Helen Sharman be the first british citizen to go into space in 1991 ; thurlstone - bear Nicholas Saunderson be a blind 17th - century lucasian professor of mathematic at Cambridge university ; and England international footballer , John Stones , also hail from that village , and follow a long and proud history of footballer who have go through Penistone Church FC . this summer also see Olympians make in our constituency . Gunthwaite ' s Becky Moody win bronze in dressage with her horse Jagerbomb . Caden Cunningham , who win silver , be train in oxspre at Quest Taekwondo . musician abound , too . Alex Turner of the Arctic Monkeys make sure that High Green be resolutely on the map . we can also boast stellar folk singer like the talented Rachael McShane of Bellowhead and Cawthorne ' s award - win Kate Rusby , whose elegiac music of home have heal many a heart and inspire the mind . Ecclesfield produce Barry Hines , the author of " a Kestrel for a Knave " , which be turn into the acclaimed film " Kes " . he document working - class life for more than 40 year . local author Matt Coyne ' s " Frank and Red " be the literary comedic mug of hot chocolate that keep I go through the general election . while our belief start from a different place , I share my predecessor Miriam Cates ' s passion for education ; I hope her new role give she the chance for leadership on change the safety of social medium for young people . Angela Smith ' s legacy as a good constituency MP be something that I aspire to . Helen Jackson ' s work on community building in Northern Ireland , as parliamentary private Secretary to Mo Mowlam , provide lesson of hope that resonate in the time of hate that we must combat today . I be also grateful for Mick Clapham ' s support ; I know we will see his legacy on the mineworker ' pension scheme continue under this Government . love , tolerance and do thing for other people be value knit across the place I call home like the blanket weave from the yarn of Penistone sheep . to the people across Penistone and stocksbridge : it be the privilege of my life to serve you . as your MP , I will work hard every day to be a strong voice for our community and ensure that people grow up and grow old in our constituency can fulfil their potential . I will do what it take to get thing right and to get thing do . we be a Government who will restore hope across our community and bring people together . I can not wait to work with member across this House to make that change happen . I thank hon . member for make their maiden speech . as I have say before , I be a geographer , so it be a real pleasure to hear about our great United Kingdom and the different constituency that we all represent . entrepreneur in the town and village I represent across Broxbourne be work hard to take risk day in , day out to get our local economy grow and to create job , but I fear that the Bill could put all that at risk . security in work should be available to everyone , but above all else it be get the job in the first place that be the first vital step . regrettably , the Government ' s plan will only make it hard for business to hire new employee . small business owner in my constituency can not call on large human resource department to make sense of these new rule . increase the number of day one right will see they hesitant in make hire decision . as the Federation of Small Businesses have say , plan to give unfair dismissal right from day one " will inevitably deter small employer from take on new people " by raise the chance that new recruit will take their employer to a tribunal simply because they turn out to be unsuited to the role . the principle of qualifying period for workplace right be sensible and fair . the Government must recognise that , because they have choose not to include in the Bill a reform of the qualifying period of two year for statutory redundancy pay . a balance must be strike to avoid the burden fall too heavily on either the employer or the employee — especially for small business employee , who need the security and confidence that the qualifying period provide . it be clear that the Government ' s plan do not strike that balance . one thing I agree with the Government about be that we must get our economy grow fast , but this Bill , on which the Government have not consult , be not the right way to achieve that . in this place , we should talk more about how to encourage firm to create growth . my hon . friend talk about growth . do he agree that growth for small business be good for worker and that what be good for small business be therefore good for worker ? small business need well protection in this legislation . I absolutely agree . if we do not create the next generation of entrepreneur in this country through the education system , which the Government should be focus on , rather than place burden on they — we have yet to hear the Government ' s new Budget , which could increase taxis and put more burden on small business — there will be few job in the market and few job for the people we be try to represent and protect in this place . it be Opposition Members who be stand up for small business . small business be the backbone of my local economy in Broxbourne and the country at large . if we do not ensure a fair balance between worker and small business , small business will close and people will lose their job . I do not think the Government want that , so will they please reflect on the Bill , have a proper consultation and come back with something more suitable for small and medium - sized business across the country ? I rise to speak as a proud trade unionist . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . too many people be in job that offer little or no security . my constituency casework have highlight the reality of insecure work in the UK and have expose the inadequacy of the law around worker protection . the rise of in - work poverty , workplace precarity , zero - hour contract , bogus self - employment and contract out put worker at risk . we know that woman and black , asian and minority ethnic worker continue to face the disproportionate burden of work in insecure job with few right and ongoing pay gap . after year of attack on worker ’ right and hostility towards trade union , it be a pleasure to welcome the Employment Rights Bill , which be without doubt a significant step forward for worker . I be particularly pleased to see the ballot threshold from the Trade Union Act 2016 do away with , and to see the repeal of the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , which trade union have criticise as be undemocratic , unworkable and illegal . I have long be concern that current law be already restrict the right of worker to join and participate in trade union and may breach international labour standard . many of we would have like to see the Bill completely end fire and rehire and zero - hour contract once and for all . I also understand that some union be concern about the rule allow worker to have access to trade union . they argue that the single good way to ensure that work pay more fairly be by expand collective bargaining . I remain committed to strengthen trade union right across the board . I listen carefully to the Deputy Prime Minister , who rightly raise the plight of carer and parent in relation to employment right . I would also like to raise the plight of survivor of domestic abuse and violence . the statutory guidance on the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 remind we how pivotal the role and action of an employer can be in the life of a survivor , who might only speak to manager and colleague outside the home , as I know only too well as a survivor of ongoing abuse and harassment and have speak to countless survivor . employer should have a duty of care towards employee who be experience domestic abuse . I believe that the Bill could be far strengthen by bring into scope the experience of survivor of domestic abuse in the workplace . we should look at provision such as flexible working and pay leave in that regard . a thriving and just economy can not be create without the full involvement and empowerment of the workforce . the Bill be an opportunity to lay the groundwork for a future in which worker can defend their pay , dignity and working condition . we have hear some electrifying and remarkable maiden speech today . I rise to speak as a former member of a trade union . I do not miss the sub go out of my pay packet ; it do little for I . this be no mere Bill , but a time machine that could take the whole country back decade . the union be go to party like it ' s 1979 . for your benefit , Madam Deputy Speaker — you be not there — 1979 be the winter of discontent when the union bite back , the rubbish pile high in the street and a Labour pm be soon out with the bin . with this hastily assemble Employment Rights Bill , Labour be feed the union alligator that may yet eat it , too . that be because the Bill lack balance , assume that all employer be robber baron intent on exploit worker . the Prime Minister have talk of grow the economy and cut red tape , yet now we see the reality : proposal that will frighten firm away from take on new staff and burden they with still more rule and regulation . my constituent Rory , a forward - think dairy farmer , have write to I about Labour ' s pledge " to make Britain the good place to start and grow a business . " like I , he see fine sentiment , but the Bill risk the opposite effect . there be even an expensive new layer of bureaucracy : the fair work agency , whose cost will be bear by business and pass on to the public . the people ' s tape be deep red . the Bill make it easy for militant union to infiltrate workplace , and it strip out sensible curb on their power . strike will hit the public hard without conservative safeguard such as those that guarantee minimum service level . an impact assessment of the Trade Union Act 2016 indicate that it would cut strike by about 35 % . will the hon . member give way ? no , I have wait 40 year for this . much of the 2016 Act will be toss into picket line brazier , and as ever it be the public who will suffer . the plan to make union funding of Labour opt - out , not opt - in , be another back - to - the - future move . it be naked opportunism from the Labour party . the Bill will be hard on small and medium - sized business , the backbone of the economy . we must not forget that they be run by people who be themselves worker and striver . Napoleon disparagingly call we a nation of shopkeeper . with legislation as skewed as this , labour risk shut the shop and turn we into a nation of striker and their union rep handmaiden . this skimpy Bill be so heavily skewed that it resemble the blade in Edgar Allan Poe ' s " the Pit and the Pendulum " , leave employer strap in red tape between the ever - present pit of insolvency and the slice , slice , slice of costly , pro - union , anti - growth legislation . I call Lorraine Beavers to make her maiden speech . I congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today . I be a proud member of Unite the Union and the Communication Workers Union . I would first like to pay tribute to my predecessor Paul Maynard . Paul work incredibly hard for his constituent and be rightly proud to be the first person with cerebral palsy to become a Government Minister . I want to say thank you to Joan Humble , the first Labour MP to serve in my constituency , and to my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) for all her hard work and commitment to the people of Fleetwood . I also want to pay tribute to my mum and dad , the wonderful Ronnie and Brenda Shewan , who both sadly pass away this year . my dad see I get select , and my mum see I get elect . oh , how I miss they ! as a lifelong trade unionist and socialist , I be incredibly proud to be make my maiden speech on the Employment Rights Bill , which will be transformative for the work people I represent . the 16 - year - old I begin her journey in the labour movement at Larkholme high school in Fleetwood . in assembly one day , the headmaster ask if anyone ' s dad be a lorry driver , and a girl call Susan raise her hand . he ask whether her dad have go to work that day . when she say no , the head inform the school that the reason they do not get their cornflake that morning be that Susan ' s dad be refuse to go to work . I be incense . I organise a demonstration outside the school gate that very lunchtime . the head be furious and demand that we come back in , but we stand unite and refuse . eventually we negotiate a deal , agree that the head would make a full apology at the next school assembly . I understand that the Bill might not allow for picket line inside school , but without doubt it be the big upgrade to worker ' right that we have see for a generation . the fair pay agreement outline in it will be transformative for the work people of my constituency , especially in social care , where low pay and poor condition have lead to a recruitment and retention crisis . with an end to fire and rehire , a clampdown on zero - hour contract and more right for union to represent work people , the Bill will not just improve the life of my constituent , but empower they . it be an honour and a privilege to be the voice of the resident of Blackpool North and Fleetwood . I be the 15 - year - old girl who bring the school out on strike . I be the Army wife . I be the mum who could not afford to buy new shoe for her girl . I be the mum who cycle an extra mile to save 50p because fund be low . I understand what it be like to be poor and struggle between payday . sadly , I know that some of my constituent be go through far bad poverty than I could ever imagine . I see the cost of living crisis , the massive rise in rent , food and clothing and the mortgage that young people can only dream of affording , and I want to make it well . my constituency have the most beautiful coastline , nature reserve and community . we speak to each other , we care for each other , we smile at each other and we look after each other . that be why so many people move to the Fylde coast . it be where I live with my husband John and where we bring up our two beautiful daughter , who have bless we with four wonderful grandchild . I would not live anywhere else but on the beautiful Fylde coast . it be where I be from , where I be bear and where I have love , laugh , work , cry and grieve . it be my home and my safe space . my constituency include the town , village and hamlet of Fleetwood , Thornton , Cleveleys , Stanah , Anchorsholme , Carleton , Norcross , Norbreck , Bispham , Little Bispham and northern Blackpool . Carleton be list in the 1086 Domesday book . Bispham be several hundred year old than Blackpool , and Fleetwood be the new kid on the block , with the first brick not be lay till 1836 . I will serve every corner of my constituency and fight for a well future for all . I be here to fight for investment into my community , to fight for my constituent and to make sure that the fund my constituency so desperately need be bring back home . that be the job my constituent send I to do , and I intend to do it . I be proud to have be elect alongside a Government who will deliver dentist for all , save our NHS and invest in our young and old alike ; a Government who will invest in our community , our armed force , our police , our firefighter and more ; a Government who care and leave no one behind ; and a Government who make those with the broad shoulder carry the heavy load . this be my Government , this be my party , and we will deliver . I congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) on a powerful maiden speech . I broadly welcome the Bill before we — after all , it be clear up the mess leave by the previous Tory Government . however , I be concerned that the Government be not go far enough in certain area , particularly on statutory sick pay . presenteeism may mean that people be turn up to work when they should not be , both for their health and for productivity . it be important to enhance statutory sick pay , and I hope that Ministers will give it serious consideration . as somebody who be adopt , I be delighted that the Bill talk about adoption , but I be shocked that the Government have not explore how they could support foster . it be part of the rich tapestry of our family and our society in the United Kingdom , and it also help our child ' s service . why be the Government choose to be wilfully blind to foster carer in the Bill ? it be shameful . I would also like to reflect on Disability Confident employer . Disability Confident be a really important scheme . we know — I hear it on the news — that the Government be talk about try to get people with health condition out of benefit and into work . we applaud that , but why be the Bill silent on Disability Confident employer ? this be a real opportunity to do thing in a positive way , rather than blame people with disability . I hope the Government will see common sense on that . I refer the House to my declaration of interest . the Employment Rights Bill be most welcome . it have be describe by some on the conservative Benches as a horror show . it be definitely not a horror show . it be describe as a trade union Bill . I remind Opposition Members that it be the Conservative Government who introduce the Trade Union Act 2016 , among many other anti - trade union piece of legislation . one of the good thing in this Bill be the repeal of much of what be in the 2016 anti - trade union legislation . this be the first time in my time as a Member of Parliament that there have be any repeal of anti - trade union legislation . I have to say that , like many other trade unionist and many other people in the workplace , I welcome that fact . labour recognise that the relentless attack on the trade union movement — the battering of ordinary work people from pillar to post — can not and should not continue . do my hon . friend agree that the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 be a deliberate attempt to undermine people in the workplace ? it be completely ignorant of the fact that the union provide minimum service level throughout some of the most difficult circumstance . do that not tell we a lot about the previous Conservative Government ? thank for that intervention . of course it say a lot about the previous Conservative Government . we on the Labour Benches should always remember and never forget what the Conservatives do whenever they be cornered or in difficulty : they revert to type and attack the trade union movement . that be what they do and have always do . you have see some of the contribution here this evening . [ interruption . ] do you want to intervene ? [ interruption . ] oh , so be you just go to continue to chunter ? and when I give the opportunity of say something responsible — order . the hon . Gentleman can sit . he have be here long enough to know that when he say " you " , he be refer to I . I sometimes let it pass when it be new member who be not quite used to it , but he should know well . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . yes , you be right , I should . I be be chuntere at by a Member on the Opposition Front Bench . my deep apology . as I say , we must remember that the Conservatives revert to type . the hon . Gentleman be do a very impressive impersonation of Arthur Scargill . the reality be that the Conservative Government leave office with 4 million more people in work compare with the labour inheritance , a grow economy and a smashed deficit . that be something we be proud of on this side of the House . thank for the compliment . I be say that the Bill simply restore the balance . it seek to reverse the injustice mete out to the trade union and work people , and to rebuild the workplace that be ideologically destroy by the Conservative Government . these be the first step and they be so , so welcome . I have fight for they all my life . they be the first step in a long journey , but look at what we have do within the first 100 day . I have only mention a few . as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) say , we be repeal the minimum service level law and most of the Trade Union Act 2016 , and ensure that individual have employment right from day one , include sickness pay , although there be an argument that sickness pay be far too low . we be look at bereavement payment and so on from day one . we be look to address the scourge of zero - hour contract . we be look to address the scourge of fire and rehire . we be look to introduce flexible working and entitlement to paternity and parental leave . we do this because it be the right thing . I could spend hour outline what I think be right in the Bill and perhaps some thing we need to focus on in the come week , but I will not do that . the reality be that this be a historic Bill that set a framework for fairness for generation to come . remember , the louder the scream from the conservative party — the screaming , shout and chuntering — the more we on the Labour Benches know that we be win the argument . we know we be do the right thing , so however loud you shout , we welcome it . I congratulate those hon . member who deliver their passionate and authentic maiden speech today . I be proud , like so many member , to represent a constituency that be home to so many small and medium - sized business , which comprise the backbone of our local economy . I be deeply concerned that the reform in the Bill will hurt both business and employee , as well as damage the economic growth that the Government claim to be strive for . the previous Government introduce and raise the national living wage , end low pay and ensure that work always pay more than benefit . they ban exclusivity clause in zero - hour contract , ban business from stop worker on a zero - hour contract have another job , and deliver 800 job a day from 2010 . the Conservative Government also introduce share parental leave , give more choice to family . we introduce new regulation on share parental leave to give family more choice over how they take parental leave follow the birth of a child . change to business regulation need to strike a careful balance , but labour ' s Bill get it wrong and will instead make it hard for business , damage job creation and economic growth in the process . the Labour party have introduce a Bill at pace that do not strike the correct balance . as a result , our economy will be less competitive and growth will be hinder . those warning come not just from the conservative Benches , but from across industry . the Scottish Chambers of Commerce highlight how " the propose new right to a tribunal access from day one will inevitably lead to more settlement agreement to avoid a lengthy and costly tribunal process , place more burden on business . " the change to employment law risk " fuel long , complex litigation " , accord the Recruitment and Employment Confederation . there be a few part of the new Bill to which I would like to draw attention . the likelihood of draw - out dismissal process have already be refer to . there be the question of how poor performance will be prove . there be the unnecessary right that will be give to trade union to gain access to workplace . on zero - hour contract , many employer and employee do not want guarantee hour and a minimum threshold . on flexible working , there be the material change proposal , a reasonableness test that will make — my hon . friend be make a very good speech highlight the fatal flaw in the Bill . do he agree that the Government ' s own impact assessment on the economic implication show that it will be a disaster for small business , not just in Bromsgrove but in Fareham and Waterlooville ? the cost that will be bear by business will cripple investment , strangle job creation and further stagnate growth . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for her intervention and agree wholeheartedly with her point . the Bill will inhibit economic growth and ultimately bear down very heavily on those the Government claim they be try to protect . the reform will prevent business from hire new people and expand . the Institute of Directors have warn that 57 % of business be less likely to hire due to measure in the Bill . there be concern that the Government have not carry out a consultation on collective redundancy , and have fail to outline why they view those proposal as beneficial . make UK , an important industry body , have warn that the regulation will " significantly increase " red tape for business that be force to make redundancy , and ukhospitality , which represent thousand of business on which many of our constituency rely for their economic vitality , have say that for 90 % of worker on zero - hour contract , those be the desire contract for they . what we see here be a generational shift in employment law that will ramp up grievance and dispute and entrench unproductivity . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , point out , it will make it easy to strike and send we back to the 1970 , support militant union . it will increase the number of strike hour in public service , and , as Unite the Union have point out , it be like swiss cheese : full of hole . I hope that , as the Bill progress through Parliament , the Government will listen to both the opposition and industry in order to limit the damage it will cause business and work people . I congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister on introduce this groundbreake Bill within the Government ' s first 100 day . it be a careful product of many year of work and think . I proudly declare the interest set out in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , include my position as chair of the Society of Labour Lawyers , which have consider and campaign on these issue for year . the many measure in the Bill create the condition for job around which people can build life and family , and will prevent legitimate business from be undercut by those who avoid their responsibility . I welcome the provision to tackle exploitative hiring and employment practice , which will benefit worker and business . I will confine my remark to enforcement and the fair work agency , because a right be not worth the paper it be write on unless it can be enforce . I be a barrister for 17 year , and for part of my career I have the honour of represent work people . I see at first hand the race to the bottom on employment that take place under the last government . our country be unusual in have no labour right commissioner , or central or local regulator . many of the right that successive Labour government have establish , and for which the wide Labour movement campaign , be instead delegate to individual require to act themselves through the employment tribunal system . as the Low Pay Commission have find , low - pay and exploit worker can be reluctant to speak out about abuse of their right . regulation of the labour market in the UK be fragment and under - resource , with an estimate one inspector per 10 , 000 worker . the creation of a fair work agency will help to enable enforcement of the national minimum wage , statutory sick pay , and a wide range of right such as holiday pay , so that everyone play by the same rule . it will help to protect business that be undercut by act as a real deterrent . the current system clearly do not do that : last year 1 . 1 million employee do not receive any of the pay holiday to which they be entitle , and one in five of those on the minimum wage do not receive the correct pay . it be to the Government ' s credit that the fair work agency will help the most vulnerable worker , include those who be victim of human trafficking . I hope that , as the Bill progress , we will be able to consider whether the agency will also be able to help with safety and other workplace right . we have see conservative government provoke conflict and disruption in industrial relation , but growth and prosperity be only serve by well co - operation and work practice , and that be what the Bill will deliver . I rise not to speak about the Bill as a whole , but to focus on the provision that will have an impact on unpaid carer . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a trustee of the Links Trust . I be to become a member of the board of the Fife Carers Centre , which support unpaid carer across Fife include my constituency , and that will shortly be publish in the register . it should therefore be no surprise to the Government that the first issue that I want to raise be their failure to include pay carer ' s leave in the Bill , or even to commit themselves to it in their " next step to make work pay " document . I think that that be a mistake , and also a u - turn from their previous position . I remember that during a debate on my private Member ' s Bill that become the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 — I double - check this in Hansard — the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , who be then shadow Minister for employment right and who be no long in the Chamber , say : " we of course support the Bill , but it fall short of what unpaid carer really need , which be pay carer ' s leave . under the proposal set out in our new deal for work people , the next Labour Government will legislate to introduce just that " . — [ Official Report , 21 October 2022 ; Vol . 720 , c . 1004 . ] indeed , he commit himself to do that at all subsequent stage . I acknowledge that the " Next Steps " document do make some promise in relation to carer ' s leave — both to review the operation of the 2023 Act that I be proud to pass , and to look at the benefit of make that leave pay — but that be it . I look with excitement at today ' s write statement — I do not know what that say about I — only to find four consultation , none of which refer to unpaid carer . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be call on the Government to give certainty to unpaid carer : certainty about when that review will take place , certainty about what it will entail , and certainty that the Government be keep their pre - election pledge to move forward with pay leave . will the Government provide an update on what be be do to inform business about carer ' s leave as it stand , namely unpaid ? it concern I that there be not enough information out there for employer or worker . what be the Government do to ensure that company be pass the information to their employee , and that it be be record correctly in system ? that last point be important . if the Government want to review the operation of the current Carer ' s Leave Act , presumably they will want to know about take - up , but I be hear worry story that carer ' s leave can not be properly record in hr system , and be therefore record as general unpaid leave or something similar . we do not need to wait for a review to ensure that the new leave continue to be roll out properly and effectively . there be other element of the Bill that I welcome , especially those relate to flexible working . we know that for unpaid carer , flexible working can be one of the most important tool for stay in work . my request of the Government be that during the passage of the Bill , they flesh out a bit more what they mean by a reasonable or not reasonable rejection of a request for flexible working . I urge the Minister to use his time today to reassure unpaid carer that the Government be not turn their back on they , now that he be in a position to help they . let I begin by proudly declare my membership of Unite , the GMB and the Community trade union , and at some time in the past , a member of the National Union of Mineworkers , like my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) . the Bill will transform the life of worker across the United Kingdom . it be not just a set of reform ; it be a commitment to the hard - work people of this nation , a promise to ensure that their right be protect and their voice be hear . for far too long , many worker in this country have endure poor working condition , low pay , and a lack of job security . the previous Conservative Government fail to address these critical issue , leave million of worker vulnerable and undervalue . the Bill be the Government ' s response to these injustice . it be a comprehensive package of reform design to upgrade worker ’ right , tackle poor working condition , and benefit both business and worker . it be part of the Government ' s broad effort to deliver economic security and growth to business , worker and community . one of the key aspect of the Bill be the improvement of pay and productivity . we recognise that fair wage be essential to the wellbeing of worker and their family . the Conservative Government ' s policy lead to stagnate wage and widen income inequality . the Bill aim to rectify that by ensure that all worker in the UK be pay fairly for their hard work , and that business be incentivise to invest in their workforce . from my conversation with business and employee in my constituency , it be clear that foster sustainable business and promote growth be crucial . I have observe numerous business form partnership with their workforce , ground in fair treatment that acknowledge employee ' dedication and hard work . the Bill support and strengthen that approach . it also represent a new approach , a pro - business , pro - worker strategy that recognise the connection between economic growth and worker ’ right . by address issue such as poor working condition and low pay , this Government aim to create a more balanced and sustainable economy . the Bill be a testament to the Government ' s commitment to create a fair and more equitable society . I be proud to support it , and to stand up for the right of worker in my constituency and beyond . I begin by welcome this Bill on behalf of my Green colleague . I would like to gently comment on the tone of some of this debate . I find myself on the Opposition Benches , but that be not to say that I share the sentiment express by Conservative Members . in particular , it be a shame that we have see some very polarised debate today . I want to challenge the rhetoric of , " it ' s worker versus employer and union versus small business . " that be both ahistorical and economically illiterate , frankly . it be ahistorical because if we do not have worker organise together to improve their condition , we would still have child up chimney and woman be pay a small fraction of what man be pay for do the same work . such rhetoric be economically illiterate because inequality be bad for growth . it be not just I and Labour Members who say that ; the International Monetary Fund have specify that inequality be bad for growth . let we try to look for the common ground together , and to welcome measure that will improve work and the security of people who work . let we recognise that , frankly , this Bill be long overdue , because we have see the erosion of worker ’ right over decade . we be now in a position where work do not pay well enough for far too many people in our country , which be why we have so many people on in - work benefit . I really welcome the sentiment express by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who point out that there be much well labour relation in country where there be a positive recognition that worker ’ right go along with improve economic growth . as a country , let we try to move towards that point . I want to briefly mention a few area where I would like the Government to go far . the Bill ' s failure to fully ban fire and rehire practice be inexplicable . it leave a loophole or get - out clause that effectively condone this practice , and I do not think there can be any ground for treat worker in purely transactional term . zero - hour contract be a complex area . I know that some people welcome the opportunity to have zero - hour contract , but this fly in the face of what the majority of the public want . the current model leave far too much power in the hand of employer . I want to briefly mention other aspect of equality . it be disappointing that this Bill do not uphold previous labour pledge on mandatory disability and ethnicity pay gap reporting . it will lead to increase inequality between migrant worker and other , because it do not address the risk that migrant worker face when their visa be dependent on employer , and they may exit the country before they have have a chance to pursue their employment claim . I would like to see kinship care treat in the same way as adoption leave . the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) talk about foster carer , too . in summary , I welcome this bill , but there be area where I would like to see the Government go far to protect worker ’ right . I call Mike Tapp to make his maiden speech . it be an immense privilege to be here today as the Member of Parliament for Dover and Deal . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a proud small business owner and a union member , and it be fantastic to see so many Labour Members who be small business owner speak in support of the Bill . over the past two year , I have knock on thousand of door , speak to family , business owner and worker , and listen to their hope and concern . today , I bring their voice to this House , but first I pay tribute to my predecessor , who be and still be an ardent champion on housing issue . before the general election , she send a clear message to the country when she cross the Floor of the House to join the Labour party . Dover and Deal be the gateway to Britain , with our port bring £ 144 billion of trade into the country , but it be also a place rich in history , resilience and community spirit . from the iconic white cliff to the fine castle in Britain , and from the newly reopen Roman paint house to the proud former mining community in Aylesham , Snowdon and Betteshanger , we represent the very good of what it mean to be british . we also have beautiful coastal path with some truly great pub stop along the way , as member have probably see from my social medium ; they include the King ' s Head and the Forresters in Deal , the Zetland Arms in Kingsdown and Cullins Yard in Dover . we have castle in Dover , Walmer and Deal . I wonder whether my constituency have the most castle in the country , but I be open to challenge on that . my commitment to public service and hard work stem well and truly from my upbringing . one grandad fly the Catalina fly boat that take out Nazi submarine , and then go on to sell Colman ' s mustard from Cambridge . the other grandad be a lifelong , distinguished Royal Mail worker , and that generation ' s unwavere spirit of hard work run through my family . my father , a dedicated police officer , and my mother , a social worker , show I that real service be about stand strong for other . their steadfast dedication to help those in need teach I that strength be find not in title , but in the service we provide to those around we . that lesson have guide I in my own life — in the Army , in a counter - terror role at the National Crime Agency , and now as the proud Member of Parliament for Dover and Deal . I do not stand here alone . I pay tribute to my wife — my hero — who come from Estonia at just 18 year of age , 16 year ago . she have always be and will always be my rock , have support I through a very difficult and long campaign . Linda have show remarkable resilience and dedication in turn her passion for dog into her own thrive small business , which will continue to thrive and grow under this new Bill . we have two dog of our own . some member will know Scooby from the campaign trail . he have become so famous that my Wikipedia page simply state : " personal life : he have a dog call Scooby . " I assure the House that I have more of a personal life than that — and a second dog , a puggle call Monki . it be no secret that I be just a little bit patriotic . when you represent Dover and Deal , how could you not be ? for century , we have stand strong against invader and threat , from Napoleon to the Nazis . Dover and Deal have always be at the heart of Britain ' s story , and I be committed to ensure that we remain a proud and prosperous part of the country ' s future . Dover and Deal be where national challenge meet local reality . we be a community on the frontline of issue such as border security , immigration and trade . we face these challenge with the strength and sense of duty that have always define we . under this Government , Dover and Deal will be treat with the respect it deserve . my vision be for a Dover and Deal where our community can thrive , with improved infrastructure , strong public service and more opportunity for young people to build their future there . we be more than a point of transit ; we be a community of hard - work people who keep our port run , our business thrive and our public service go . as we debate the future of worker ’ right , I want to say on record that the P & O Ferries scandal , which affect so many of my constituent , must never be repeat . that be why I fully support this Bill . I congratulate the hon . member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) on his maiden speech . I look forward to the good dog in the world , Monty , take on Scooby in the Westminster dog of the year competition . everybody in the House know that every Labour Government in history have end with unemployment high than when they start . bill like this be part of the reason why , whatever the intention . if the purpose of this Bill really be to improve worker ’ right , and it be not just about pay back £ 40 million of union donation make over the past few year , why be there no provision address one of the bad labour market abuse in our country : substitution clause , which allow delivery driver to lend their identity to other ? these clause be in contract from huge firm such as Amazon and Deliveroo , and they fuel worker exploitation and immigration crime . we know that hundred of thousand of people , many of whom can not work here legally , trade identity . by undercut british worker and exploit those with no right to be here , these company be privatise profit and socialise the cost that they cause , so why be that issue miss from the Bill ? why will the Government do nothing about the international trading system ? country aim to run trade surplus , such as China , hold down their labour cost and destroy industry in deficit country such as ours . trade war , as two author like to say , be class war , and the Labour party usually like to fight a class war , yet this Government want to flood Britain with cheap chinese electric car because of the Energy Secretary ' s obsession with net zero . that be just one way in which our economic model need to change , because while the Government ' s characterisation of their inheritance be , I be afraid , cynical and wrong , there be a case for economic change , if only the Government be prepared to undertake it . I think the Business Secretary might be one of those capable of do that , but I be not sure that some of his colleague be . today , Ministers could be launch a plan for reindustrialisation , for competitive energy price , for domestic steel manufacturing and for a strategy take in well infrastructure , skill and training , planning , regulatory reform and more — [ interruption . ] would the hon . Lady like to intervene ? no ; I be fine , thank you . the Government could be do something about the fact that nearly 22 % of the workforce be economically inactive and a record number of man be leave the labour market . they could be back british business . this again highlight the point that there be so much detail yet to be release into the public domain about this Bill . I highlight this before . do my hon . friend agree that if we have that detail , we could provide more reassurance to the small and large business deal with the challenge he have mention ? my hon . friend be exactly right ; I agree . the Government could be back british business , not burden it with all these new regulation . instead , we have an Energy Secretary drive up energy price , a Chancellor plan a job tax , increase to capital gain tax and the imposition of inheritance tax on small family business , and a Deputy Prime Minister reregulate the labour market at a cost to business of £ 5 billion , to pay back the union who fund the Labour party . the Prime Minister promise we that his priority be " growth , growth , growth " , but like everything else he say before the election , he do not mean it , because the only three thing that this Bill will bring be more cost , less investment and few job . let I start by proudly declare that , like 1 . 3 million work Brits , I be a member of Unison . Bracknell be a fantastic place to do business , and since my election I have speak to plenty of business in my community , from sme to international business . in speak with they , two thing have come out time and again . first , there be relief that they finally have a Government who will put economic stability at the heart of everything they do , instead of chaos . secondly , there be recognition that the Bill will be good not only for their worker but for business , because well support staff who have more control over their life and more reliable hour will work hard and for long . worker who can adjust their term , who be free from the threat of dismissal right after start a family , who be entitle to leave after a love one ' s death , who be give the time to recover when they be sick , who no long face exploitative zero - hour contract or fire and rehire , and who be free from harassment be obviously happy and more committed . indeed , many Bracknell business already offer many of the right in this Bill , because they recognise that do so make they more attractive to good , skilled worker . this government be pro - business , pro - growth and pro - worker , and this Bill demonstrate that commitment . I note that the chief executive officer of the CBI , Rain Newton - Smith , have say : " the government deserve credit for its willingness to engage with business and union " . there be a body of economic research that substantiate what we all feel to be true : worker ' right be the foundation of a resilient , grow economy . the hon . Gentleman just quote the CBI approvingly . can he name the chief executive of a real business who approve of this Bill ? I have speak to many chief executive in my constituency who approve of this Bill . I will not go into private conversation , because I have not warn they that I be about to quote they in the House , but I be sure that we will hear many such example in contribution from other member . this Bill will bring in historic new right for work people . it will make work pay , and it will be good for boost our national productivity and support business and growth in this country , because we all know that when worker feel that the job that they do be value , they contribute more to the economy . that be why this Bill be good not only for worker but for business . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , and commend she for all her work on the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , which come into play in the previous Parliament . I want to build on that , and to emphasise the importance of the interplay of pay and unpaid care in ensure that we look after the people in society who need our care . the comment of a constituent of mine in Mid Sussex come to mind . she be an unpaid carer for her mother , and tell I that have pay carer come in help she to sustain a normal mother - daughter relationship for that little bit long . the care workforce , and look after the care workforce , be extremely important , and the liberal Democrats welcome the fair pay proposal in this Bill , but we would like the Bill to go far . as I mention when I intervene on the Deputy Prime Minister , we would like the minimum wage for care worker to be £ 2 high than the normal minimum wage . we would also like to build the esteem and career path of people who work in pay care — for example , by establish a royal college of carer . without that , we have a blocker to our workforce productivity . care and working must go hand in hand , but because regulation do not enable unpaid carer to look after their love one adequately , 600 people a day give up work to care for a love one . one of those people be Amanda , who use to live in Mid Sussex . she and her husband Nick look after their 21 - year - old son Archie , who be autistic and learning disabled . Amanda be a modern foreign language teacher , and there be a shortage of such teacher . as Archie be approach adulthood , they realise that West Sussex county council would not be able to provide enough care for he , so the good thing that she could do be take her teacher ' s pension early and claim the carer ' s allowance . because of the £ 151 a week limit on earning for those on the carer ' s allowance , Amanda be now exclude from the workforce . she can not take up offer of supply teaching or exam invigilate that would boost the family income and be good for her mental health . we need to ensure that people can give care while be in the workforce , because this situation be not good for the nation ' s productivity , or for the Government ' s ambition to deliver growth . I call Kenneth Stevenson to make his maiden speech . it be a great pleasure to follow the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) , and the excellent maiden speech of the hon . member for Leicester East ( Shivani Raja ) and for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) , for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) and for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) . I make my maiden speech with a great deal of pride . serve the people of Airdrie and Shotts be an immense privilege , and one that I will never take for grant . I hope that my dad , Howard , will be pleased as he watch at home , and that he know that it be the value of hard work that he and my mum , Millie , instill in I — along with the assistance of many other , include my wife , Julie , who be watch here today — that have bring I to this place . the opportunity for I to make my maiden speech today be all the more special because we be debate the Employment Rights Bill . as we chap door across the constituency for over a year , our key commitment be to deliver an upgrade to worker ' right the like of which have not be see for a generation . I be delighted that we be make such rapid progress , and I thank the Minister and the Government for put this at the forefront of our effort to give Britain back its future . I look forward to see the impact of this Bill on worker in my constituency of Airdrie and Shotts , and across the country . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Anum Qaisar . I never question her commitment to the job she be elect to do , nor to the cause for which she fight so passionately . I wish she well in the future . look back a bit far into the history of the Airdrie and Shotts constituency , and of the seat that come before it , I have to mention some of the giant who have serve these community . from Jennie Lee , a key figure in the creation of the Open University , where I obtain my qualification , to Peggy Herbison , a Shotts woman to her core , who lead the way for woman in politic and whose impact be still feel in Shotts to this day ; and from John Reid , a pivotal figure in the last UK Labour Government , to John Smith , a truly excellent leader of my party , take before his time , who put the Labour party firmly back on the path towards Government . although , on reflection , I may be make a rod for my own back by mention such influential and consequential figure , it be only right that I recognise their contribution to this place , to the community I now represent , to the Labour movement and , indeed , to this country . member will be surprised to hear this , but I be go to make a comparison between Airdrie and the ancient city of Rome — before member ask , it be not the weather . like Airdrie , Rome be also build on seven hill . a popular Airdrie pub quiz question be to name they , but I will not attempt to do so today , because of the risk of miss one out — what a start that would be ! the community of Airdrie and Shotts , along with the many surround village , be steep in industrial history . these town and village , include Harthill , Eastfield , Salsburgh , Allanton , Bonkle , Hareshaw , Hartwood , Morningside , Cleland , Holytown , Newarthill , Newmains , Plains , Chapelhall , Gartness , Calderbank , Glenmavis , Caldercruix , Upperton , Longriggend , Wattston and Greengairs , be of great importance to the history of Scotland and the wide UK . in coalmining , manufacturing , textile , engineering and pharmaceutical , the community of Airdrie and Shotts have be home to skilled employment , and they have be at the centre of the various advance we have witness in previous decade . in fact , I complete my apprenticeship at a modern manufacturing facility in Shotts that be sadly close during the time of rapid deindustrialisation . it be there that I learn my trade as an engineer and grow as a person . the advice of ex - miner , steel worker and foundry worker be invaluable . my second career as a lecturer at Anniesland college be inform by the people of Glasgow . I learn so much from my fellow lecturer and from the area ' s student . the Shotts factory humour be not generally something I would repeat in this Chamber , but I can share the first piece of advice I get as an apprentice : " never argue with anybody stupider than yersel , son . " Oscar Wilde , it be not , and have listen to the discourse in this place , I be sure I will not need that advice here . regardless , I will forever be indebted to the people of the area I be bear , raise and work in . I hope that legislation such as the Bill we be debate today will reignite the industrial and technological potential that exist within these community . there be two thing I could not go without mention in my maiden speech . the first be the group and organisation at the heart of my constituency . my scottish colleague will be well aware of the work and impact of St Andrew ' s hospice in Airdrie . many , if not most , people in Lanarkshire will have a relative or a family friend who be care for by the hospice , and will therefore know its incredible value . it be an immense honour and privilege to serve these people and community . in I , they have a Member of Parliament who have live in the constituency throughout my life , who value its potential and who be determined to overcome the challenge it face . I will do my good to abide by my Stane primary school motto , " Persevere " , and by my Calderhead high school motto , " Facta non verba " — deed , not word . today ' s debate on the Employment Rights Bill be a critical step towards deliver a long - overdue new deal for work people , and it will be the work people of Airdrie and Shotts who I have in mind throughout my time in this Parliament . I congratulate the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) on his maiden speech . know his constituency a little , I can guarantee that the weather be not the link between Airdrie and Rome . I congratulate he on take his place in this House . today ' s debate be deeply important , and it will have huge ramification for business of all size across the country . hire new staff be a big moment for small business , like many in Keighley and Ilkley , and it come with huge potential but also risk . that be why many business in my constituency have contact I in advance of the introduction of this Bill to express their concern about the proposal before we today . at a time when we need to grow the economy , we do not need a Bill that the Federation of Small Businesses have describe as " rushed … clumsy , chaotic and poorly plan . " it have to be note that this Bill will have a disproportionately negative impact on small business compare with large company that have their own hr department . simply put , Labour ' s day one right and other similar measure be worry for many small business across the country . the Government have make this situation bad by add clause after clause of clarification , exception , regulation and definition , in an attempt to micromanage every possible situation for business across the country . this have create a quagmire of regulatory jargon that small business will simply have to cope with , and they will not be able to cope . the fear of fall foul of these regulation have be make clear to I by many business in Keighley and Ilkley . the Bill will also prevent the backbone of our economy from hire staff , expand and grow our economy . even the Government ' s own economic analysis stipulate that the risk be high for worker with the weak attachment to the labour market , such as low - pay worker , disabled worker and the young worker , who be still gain the experience and skill they require . an SME in my constituency once find someone sleep rough on its premise and offer they a job . do my hon . friend agree that , when this Bill be enact , it be very unlikely that a business will go to such length to give someone that kind of break in future ? I absolutely agree . my hon . friend highlight that this Bill will not give business the certainty and confidence to recruit individual who need that little bit more experience to get into the job market . indeed , the Government ' s own analysis point to an unintended consequence : " where business can not absorb the increase in labour cost , they may look to pass they onto worker by reduce expenditure that benefit worker ( e . g . staff training ) or scale back future improvement to T & CS ( e . g . wage growth ) . " this be not a pro - growth Bill , and it be not even a pro - work Bill ; it be a pro - union Bill . the Government have even say this themselves . their plan to make work pay have refer to this Bill as an " Employment Rights Union Bill " . perhaps that be because the Bill be chock full of change to union regulation make by our previous Conservative Government — change that be specifically design to protect the public from the unscrupulous practice of the union and their more militant member . minimum service provision be introduce by the last government specifically to protect the public from be catch in the crossfire between the union and the government — yet , by lift those restriction with this Bill , Labour be show that it be more interested in appease its union boss than in ensure that minimum service be guarantee throughout any dispute between the public sector and the Government . early , I ask the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) whether there be any business leader who actually support the Bill . be my hon . friend aware of any ? I have speak to and receive correspondence from many business , both small and large , in my constituency , but not one give the Bill their full backing . in fact , they raise concern about the relationship between the employer and employee be tamper with by the Government . one of the most unsurprising part of the Bill be clause 48 , in which the Government want to force union member to pay into the political fund of the union , unless they explicitly decide to opt out . no matter what view hon . member may have about union , this clause be simply not right ; work people should not be pay into political fund without give their prior consent , especially when that money end up in the pocket of a political party . have receive over £ 29 million in donation from the union , we know which political party that money will end up go to — the party in government ; and all this from a self - proclaim Government of suppose transparency . every employment be different , every job be different and every circumstance be different , but this Bill fail to recognise that . I will start by offer some home truth to opposition member : someone can be both a member of a union and an employer . I be a proud member of GMB , which donate to my campaign , but I be also proud to have start my own business . I have be an employer , take risk , and understand the balance of risk and reward . throughout the debate , Conservative Members , who claim to represent the party of business , have make false representation that be out of date and out of kilter with the debate that we be lead , have be elect with the majority that we have . they be keen to talk among themselves , with their plan to end maternity right and all the progress the Labour party have make sacrosanct in british law and the experience of work in our economy , but I urge they to look at the result of the election and understand the direction of travel : the Labour party be once again make progress in this country . today ' s leap forward for worker ’ right sit alongside the Government ' s no . 1 mission of economic growth — that is , do with the worker not to they . we will be more productive , protective and prosperous , pro - business and pro - worker . the Bill reject the idea that justice and fairness in the workplace need to come with an arbitrary waiting period . day one right will capture headline , but will not cause alarm for most employer . the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) ask which chief executive support this provision . I meet chief executive on Friday who tell I that as leader in their field , they already do much of what we be advocate — so I say to those on the Opposition Benches : get with the programme . labour have a proud record to recall again today , as we advance these new right . we have a record of raise the floor and the horizon for worker ’ right , whether through secure maternity , paternity or foster care leave , introduce the minimum wage or ensure bank holiday . through a principled link with our trade union , the Labour party have fight for and deliver right that once seem radical but be now weave into our national life and experience of work . these very advance , initially oppose by the Tories , have now come to be see as the very standard of how work life in this country should be , and I be all for it , Madam Deputy Speaker — with time to spare . as hon . member may be aware , I be not a career politician . I work as a pork delivery driver with Henry Denny ' s , until I open my own small business as a pork retailer . I work from early morning , before I do my work for the council and then for the Northern Ireland Assembly . I employ staff member . I do the book as well as I could , then hand they to my accountant . I deliver to local business and shop local . I understand what it be to be a part of small business ; indeed , it be a microbusiness . I say respectfully to the Minister that I know I would have struggle to implement some of the thing currently under discussion , so I remind hon . member of the implication of the Bill on small and microbusinesse . the Northern Ireland statistic will show why I hold those concern . microbusinesse in Northern Ireland be no different from those in the United Kingdom mainland . employment law be mostly devolve , but much of the law in Northern Ireland follow the direction of what be pass in the House of Commons , which be why I want to make my comment in a constructive fashion . the fact be that most employer be not skilled at make change . the change make by the Bill and additional obligation on employer must be make clear , be cost - effective and not mean that they need to hire an hr consultant , which be simply out of the question . for example , I recently hear about a case of a small business that have work out holiday pay use the online Government calculator . an employee move to another job and query the holiday pay . the Labour Relations Agency have say , accord to the employee ’ representation , that the owner owe approximately £ 800 per annum to each staff member . the owner have tell I that they will need to close the business . I give that example because I want to show what can go wrong — and , my goodness , it can go wrong at an absolute volume — with regulation that the Government put in place . the business be viable , but do not have the capacity to pay £ 10 , 000 in back pay to its staff . it use online tool to get it right , and yet have be leave in an untenable situation . that make it clear that when change be make to employment practice , the advice for employer must be accurate and easy to understand . this be clearly not currently the case . with great respect to colleague on the Government Front Bench , the Bill be a curate ' s egg — it be good in part , but not in every part . I welcome some of the measure , such as the end of zero - hour contract and the enhanced protection , and look forward to see the minutia of the detail . on Friday , I attend an event host by the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry . it offer the Government no ill will and want to engage positively and pragmatically on the issue , but it be concern . do my hon . friend agree that it would be useful if , instead of continual hubris and politic from one side to the other throughout this debate , there be a willingness on the part of Front - Bench Members to engage thoughtfully with business ? my right hon . friend make exactly the point that I want to make . through the Bill , the Government be push forward legislation that be necessary and welcome , but they need to work well and more closely alongside small business and microbusinesse of the kind I work with many moon ago , whenever I have hair — that be a thing of the past . we can not expect almost 80 % of small business to behave as if they have an hr department , a payroll department and a board when most of they be simply retailer as I be , hire local people and try to be a good boss in a world with change obligation . support must be central to any change in legislation . like my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , I ask the Secretary of State to take that point on board . if he be able to do so , I believe we can move forward constructively and help our business to maintain their status as employer . I call Imogen Walker to make her maiden speech . it be an honour to speak for the first time as the MP for Hamilton and Clyde Valley . I be delighted to have the opportunity to declare that I be a proud member of GMB , which do so much for so many . my constituency have play an important part in the progress of employment right , for reason that I will come to shortly , so it be fitting that it be acknowledge here today . first , I pay tribute to Angela Crawley , who represent a large part of the area that I now cover and who have be so helpful in ensure a handover ; she be a dedicated mp and I be grateful to she . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who be always a source of good advice and good humour . his historic win in Rutherglen and Hamilton West be the first sign in Scotland that people be prepared to put their trust in we again . we will remember that . Hamilton and Clyde Valley be an extraordinary place . the ancient wood of the Clyde Valley be the old in Scotland . enter they be like step into another world : you be as likely to meet a rabbit or a red deer as another human . you might see glimpse in the undergrowth of wall , building or just pile of stone . it be impossible to say how long they have be there , but they serve as a reminder that so many people have make their life here before we . Most be long forget , but not all . the great roman general Agrippa be think to have set up camp just outside Lanark , but he do not stay . opinion vary on how the Romans be oust from Scotland : some that believe the Caledonians be just too much for they , while other say that the tribe be nowhere near as bloodthirsty as the midge . either way , Lanark be a very welcoming place now . People come from around the world to see New Lanark , Robert Owen ' s vision of decent working and living condition . he believe that people deserve more than just the mean to survive , that man and woman be equal and that how we treat our child matter . most importantly , he put his principle into practice . that be what we must do here , because the progress we have make be hard win . it take courage as well as compassion , and it must never be take for grant . in South Lanarkshire alone , nearly 5 , 500 people be pay at or below the national minimum wage . many more have work condition that can and will be improve by this Government . across Hamilton and Clyde Valley , people need a Government who be back in the service of work people — from Hamilton , the fourth large town in Scotland and home to 55 , 000 people , to Larkhall , Lesmahagow , ancient Lanark and our many village , which all have their own character and close - knit community . from the deep forest to farm , village and town , we truly have everything . from there to Westminster be quite a journey in so many way . I will not forget that I make that journey to serve and to protect the thing that people care about : their home , their family and their job . I have be give the chance to do that because of the support of so many people , start with my dearly miss mother Isobel . she would have be so happy to see I here . she , too , believe in the power of education , hard work and opportunity to transform life . every evening , the television would go off so we could do our homework in peace . I can tell you from the bottom of my heart , Madam Deputy Speaker , that that be incredibly annoying when I could have be watch " Dallas " , but of course she be right . on my father Jamieson ' s side , generation across South Lanarkshire be shopkeeper and metalworker , the kind of people who keep our country go and whose life be change by the decision we make here — knock back if we get it wrong and raise up when we get it right . I be the product of generation who sometimes thrive , often struggle and be ultimately give the opportunity to fulfil their potential through hard - win right . I want that for everyone : the chance to make a good life for themselves and their loved one . that be why I be here , and that be what this Government will do . it be a privilege to follow the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) . I visit New Lanark on a school trip when I be young , as many people in Scotland do , and it be a fantastic portrait of a beautiful part of the country . I pay tribute to other member who have make a maiden speech today , include my hon . friend the Member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) . I , too , know some of the language to which he be refer . I draw attention to my declaration of interest , include my proud membership of Unison . I will use my short time to emphasise two element of the Bill . not only be it the great increase in worker ’ right in a generation , but it will ensure that the UK economy adapt to the change landscape in which we find ourselves and to the business that will contribute to it and make we a success . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to my proud membership of Community and Unison . my hon . friend and I be both proud to represent Fife , but in some area of Fife as many as one child in four still live in poverty . do he agree that by give over 8 , 000 more worker more money in their pocket , the Bill will mean that more family have more money to spend and will help to make an important contribution to tackle child poverty in Fife ? absolutely . at the core of the Bill be the need to raise wage for people across Fife , across Scotland and across the UK . that will be a key achievement of this Bill , which have be undertake by this Labour Government within the 100 day that we promise the electorate . the change in the landscape have be cause by a rapid advancement of technology in our economy , a shift in work pattern , the evolution of the large contributor to the economy and welcome change to the nature of family life , with an increase in share parenting , as we have hear from so many member across the Chamber . it be nothing but shameful that the previous Government take no action to adapt to those change or help they to drive forward our economy . as ever , it have fall to the Labour party to make the radical change that we need to see . a look at the Opposition Benches tell we how much the Conservatives care not only about worker ’ right , but about the economy for the future . I welcome clause 7 , which will apply the objective test for an employer to refuse a reasonable request for flexible working . like hon . friend who have speak today , I run and own a small business for 10 year . I know the benefit that business get from welcome and embrace flexible work pattern . they assist with staff retention and improve and facilitate communication between employer and employee . they lead to more constructive relationship at work and — as I see at first hand — to more productive team and a business that be well for everyone involve . a shift to a clear objective test will far aid the process and will help both business and employee . I also welcome clause 20 and 21 , which will provide additional protection for work parent . along with my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , I be delighted to support the Dad Shift campaign , which have be campaign for well statutory paternity leave to help mum , dad , child and our economy . the benefit of modern and flexible paternity leave would help family to raise their child in the way they see fit , so they can still progress their own career and contribute to the economy and to society . I would like to see more progress on those issue during the passage of the Bill , as hon . friend have highlight , but none the less it be an important first step in make sure that new parent have the right protection . this be a long overdue Bill that would only ever be bring forward by a Labour Government — a Government who understand the change nature of business , of society and of our workforce and who realise that only by bring the three together can we push forward and grow our economy together , create a more prosperous and fairer society across the UK . rise — Order . I will give an advisory notice : a lot of member still want to get in , and intervention be cut into other speaker ' time . the only people who suffer will be you . I be leave the time limit at three minute , which could just about get everyone in . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will keep an eye on the time . like many other hon . member , I refer the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a proud member of GMB and Unison . we have all just fight a general election ; the reality be that general election can be expensive , so I make no apology for receive support from the CWU , ASLEF and GMB union . without that support , I would not have be re - elect . it be important that we recognise that it be clean money from our hard - work trade union member . we should not be ashamed of that at all . for many people in my constituency , the nature of the workforce have change since 2010 , yet over the past few year successive government have almost roll back the hard - fight employment right that we and many trade union before we have fight for . during the covid pandemic , as I mention in an intervention early , a number of household - name organisation — multinational business make profit in the multimillion — think it be okay to fire and rehire their staff . I stand up in this Chamber and raise concern about constituent who face the threat of sack , include many BA worker and many GMB worker who work for British Gas / Centrica . at a time when we want those worker to go out and do their vital job , the fact that those job could be take away and they could be re - employ on bad contract be just wrong . we should welcome this legislation , which will be a big game - changer for many people across the workforce . in the short time I have , I want to highlight two area in which we will see a big shift . Vauxhall and Camberwell Green be home to many young people . TUC stat show that many people in their 30 have be with the employer for less than two year . young people should be able to go to work , be proud of their work , put their root down and start a family . instead , they have insecure work with the threat of dismissal over their head and a lack of security . if young people be plan to start a family or purchase a house , they can be discriminate against by their boss . we want to see right that will protect the very people we want to contribute to UK plc . I ask Conservative Members to get with the time and help we to support growth for this country and its worker , include the many worker who be trade union member and who contribute to society . it be about time we support worker and pass this legislation so that its pro - business and pro - worker measure can support UK plc . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have to start with reflection on some of the speech from Conservative Members , although their Benches be now desert . those speech bring back memory from when I be young of watch my favourite actor , Rik Mayall , in his role as Alan B ' Stard MP . many conservative Members seem to be try to reprise that role today . it be incredible and leave I wonder what planet they be live on . it also take I back to Conservative Members object to the last Labour Government introduce the national minimum wage . they say it would have a cataclysmic effect on job across the country , when in fact it help to move people towards get a decent wage . conservative Members do not seem to understand that many good employer follow such standard already , and we be enable those good employer to operate on a level playing field with bad , rogue boss who seek to undercut good employer leave , right and centre . before I be first elect back in 2015 , I be a trade union lawyer for 10 year , and I see day in , day out how work people be hold back by weak protection and anti - trade union law . I be really proud to be here today to welcome and vote for this significant step forward in employment right by a Labour Government . there be so much in the Bill to improve worker ' right in a range of area — parental leave , paternity leave , unfair dismissal , statutory sick pay , collective redundancy , tip , the duty to prevent sexual harassment and the requirement for firm of more than 250 employee to make equality plan . the Conservatives think this be bad news for business , for worker and for our country , but that could not be further from the truth . as this important Bill make progress , I hope that the Government will find way to clarify and strengthen a small number of point . some loophole on fire and rehire need to be close , and it would be great if we could far strengthen the right of union access to workplace . I would also welcome improvement in a host of other area . for example , it be 30 year since the Tories take away prison officer ' right to strike , and I would like to see that return . if people succeed in prove unfair dismissal at an employment tribunal and get a reinstatement order , I would like to see it make much more likely that they will , in fact , be reinstate . I welcome the Bill , I be proud to vote for it and I think it be shameful that the Tories will vote against it . I wish to make member aware that I be a member of the GMB , as many member on this side of the House seem to be . it be great to take part in the debate . it be important to recognise the great history of woman on these Benches and in our movement , such as Eleanor Marx ' s role in set up the GMB , Barbara Castle ' s in pass the Equal Pay Act 1970 and , today , that of our very own Deputy Prime Minister in set out another game - change piece of legislation . I want to focus on gender , because since the introduction of gender pay reporting in 2017 , we have make some progress in make people aware of pay disparity in some of our workplace , but the fact be still stark . the gender pay gap be stubbornly stick at 14 % . that be horrific enough , but in certain sector , include care , the gap be even high . pay inequality compound over the course of a woman ' s life , mean that she be more likely to live in poverty as a pensioner , and unable to gain opportunity that her male counterpart have have through their life . accord to the TUC , the pay gap mean that , on average , woman effectively work for free for nearly two month of the year compare to man . at the current rate of progress , it could take another 20 year to close the gap . that be 20 year too long . while reporting have become an accepted part of employment practice , we must do much more than just raise awareness of the issue . we need concrete action , which be why I be proud that the Bill introduce much - need regulation to require employee with more than 250 staff to publish a plan to address their gender pay gap . that will ensure that organisation be not only transparent about pay inequality , but actively work to close they . another critical part of the Bill be the provision to support woman experience menopause . woman between the age of 45 and 54 make up 11 % of our workforce and 23 % of all woman in the workforce — around 3 . 5 million woman . despite the grow number of woman in the labour market of that age , the challenge they face from the menopause be often overlook , lead to discriminatory practice and a lack of adequate workplace support . BUPA estimate that nearly 1 million woman have be force out of the labour market by menopausal symptom . that be simply not good enough , which be why I be proud that the Bill take step to address it . employer will be require to publish how they will well support woman go through the menopause . I declare my interest as a member of the GMB , Unison and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy . Dudley be home to thousand of small business and gig economy worker . some 89 % of those business be microbusinesse , and they will be watch closely to see that the Bill strike the right balance between be pro - business and pro - worker . I believe that it do so . alongside the " Next step to make work pay " policy , the Bill offer a consultation period for business and a probation period , allow they to shape practical and beneficial reform , give a voice to business and time to adjust , as it will not be roll out until 2026 . I dismiss the claim from Conservative Members that the Bill be rush , and I hope that the Business Secretary will reaffirm that and reassure conservative Members that specific guidance and support will be provide to small business in place such as Dudley so that they can implement the reform effectively , without excessive cost . the Bill include welcome provision that will strengthen statutory sick pay and provide financial stability for worker . currently , 10 million people be not able to access basic health support at work , include up to 12 , 600 people in Dudley . the change will ensure that no one be force out of work due to ill health , help to create workplace that protect and promote the health of all employee . for too long , worker have have to wait month for basic protection such as unfair dismissal right . the Bill will change that by make they day one right , so that worker be protect from the start of their employment . under successive conservative Governments , access to justice for worker be weaken . tribunal fee make it hard for worker to hold bad employer to account . although those fee be eventually scrap , the damage remain , and the Bill correct those failure by give worker the protection that they deserve from day one . the Bill be also a significant step forward on gender equality . it make parental leave a right from day one , allow parent to access leave as soon as they start their job . that be particularly important in Dudley in sector such as healthcare , education and the beauty industry , and will ensure that be a parent do not undermine a person ' s job security . at university , I be on a zero - hour contract in one of the big industry in Dudley . I remember when my colleague and I would wait for the supervisor to produce a rota , and the uncertainty of not know who would be on the shift next . we be not alone ; more than 1 million worker in the UK be stick on these contract , with more than 80 % of they seek predictable hour . the Bill reflect the value that we stand for of fairness , equality and dignity . I proudly refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Bournemouth be blight by insecurity , and Britain be paralyse by low pay . as somebody who grow up in very significant financial hardship , care for two disabled parent , work for I be a route out of poverty . by work on several shop floor in Salford , I be able to earn enough money to go to university . be it not for that opportunity , I would not be here today . thing be hard then , but they be so much hard today , so I welcome the Bill . the Bill give worker in Bournemouth the right that they need , employer in Bournemouth the security that they need , and our economy in Bournemouth the tool that it need to grow sustainably . I thank people across Bournemouth East , the constituency that I be so proud to represent , who have share their thought and insight , and meet with I about the Bill . I have represent their view and be a voice for their argument , and I believe that the legislation be strong as a result . across Britain , more than 1 million people on zero - hour contract will benefit from the new guarantee - hour policy ; 1 . 5 million parent will benefit from unpaid parental leave as a day one right ; and 9 million people who have be with their employer for less than two year will benefit from the new day one unfair dismissal policy . an estimated one in 25 employee do not get any of the pay holiday that they be entitle to last year . the new fair work agency will enforce holiday pay for the first time . the Bill be a crucial , long - overdue step that directly benefit woman at work . it will increase protection from sexual harassment . one in two woman have be sexually harass in the workplace , and four out of five do not report it to their employer . the legislation will empower tribunal to raise compensation in case of sexual harassment where the employer fail to take reasonable step to prevent it . an estimate 4 , 000 pregnant woman and mother return from maternity leave a year will benefit from new protection . the Bill will also introduce gender pay gap action plan , and strengthen protection for worker through the menopause . the Labour party make a promise to level the play field at work by introduce the Bill early in the life of this Government . promise make , promise keep . I be so proud and excited to be vote for this pro - worker , pro - business , pro - growth , pro - economy measure , and I commend the Deputy Prime Minister for bring it forward . Bournemouth and Britain have be hold back for too long . together , we take a big step forward , with a measure that have be agree and negotiate with business , trade union and worker . we be fix the foundation , and together we be shorten the journey towards the fairer society that so many people elect a Labour Government to bring forward . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in particular the perhaps interesting fact that , like the majority of journalist at the Financial Times , I be a proud member of the National Union of Journalists . I be able to enjoy that right to membership of a trade union , and the right to assembly and discussion that follow from it , because I be fortunate enough , unlike many of my aunt , cousin and uncle , to be a british citizen live in the UK who enjoy protection of not only my right to vote but my right to collective bargaining and representation in the workplace . it be fitting that , in this historic debate on this advance in worker ’ right , we in the mother of Parliaments defend not just the right to representation in Parliament through our electoral system , but the right to representation in the workplace through collective bargaining and union access , because strong union be a workplace form of democracy . I have see what happen when people be deny that right . I have report on labour abuse and wildcat strike — the desperate measure that worker across the international supply chain of Amazon and Apple have go to when their ability to form a union and advocate for their right have not be protect by the state . that simply push problem underground . Labour member know that when worker have issue , there need to be mediation and they need to be represent properly , through legal mean . if that do not happen , it store up long - term structural challenge for the economy . in the british economy , the wage share of our economic output have fall since the 1980 . union representation and density have also fall throughout that time . it be no coincidence that the two thing go together , in the UK and many economy across the OECD . there be a correlation between the strength of union , and union density , and strong wage growth and worker protection in the workplace . beyond the cost to the economy , there be cost to individual household . when I vote for the Bill , I will be think of resident and household in my constituency of Earley and Woodley . I will be think of the parent I have deliver food parcel to with Woodley Lunch Bunch , who , despite work multiple job , be still unable to make end meet and must resort to use food bank . I will be think of the supermarket worker in the low Earley Asda , who be — like many of their colleague across the country — concerned about the threat of fire and rehire . above all , I will be think of frontline NHS worker in the Royal Berkshire hospital in the centre of Reading , who go to work day after day during the pandemic to clean up after people , suffer the threat of contagion . many of they — especially those outsource from private company — be not afford statutory sick pay because they be below the low earning limit . during the pandemic , the sick pay of many outsourced worker in the NHS be less than a quarter of the national living wage . that be a tragedy . presenteeism cause by the lack of sick pay cost our economy by reduce productivity and increase the likelihood of chronic health condition . I be very proud to support the Bill . I be glad to draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to my membership of the GMB and Unite trade union . the Bill be at the start of its parliamentary stage , but today be also the culmination of year of hard work and consultation . it be important to recognise the accomplishment that the Bill ' s introduction represent , and the Ministers , civil servant and special adviser involve deserve great credit . the Bill be bear out of the undermining of the dignity and protection of work over many year , which fall heavy on those in working - class occupation . we all know the effect that 15 year of wage stagnation have bring , the shameful limit that in - work poverty place on the potential of the people we represent , and the unfairness shoulder by those who be trap on insecure contract , include in the security and retail sector in Birmingham Northfield . the Bill will make a real positive difference to their life . in the short time available to I I will focus on three measure . first , the 3 , 000 school support staff and care worker in my constituency be some of the lowest - pay people in public service . they be predominantly woman who work under inadequate and outmoded term and condition , and their professionalism have go unrecognised for far too long . I hope that the creation of a school support staff negotiate body and an adult social care negotiating body will have cros - party support . secondly , the condition of outsourced worker in public service have also be neglect . they be the invisible workforce who keep our hospital run and our nation secure . for more than 100 year , under the fair wage resolution and the initial version of the two - tier code , government of all colour recognise the principle that outsource worker should not be place at detriment . the reinstatement of that principle be of critical importance . finally , I welcome the propose reform to trade union recognition and access arrangement . when the system have be show to be open to abuse , it must be change . in that sense , there be a direct line of continuity between the Grunwick dispute of the ' 70 — in which the late Member for Birmingham Erdington , Jack Dromey , play such a prominent role — and the creation of a statutory recognition regime 20 year later . I have hear directly from GMB member about the disgraceful anti - union tactic that they have face , which be not anticipate when the current law be draft . they must not wait 20 year for remedy . this Bill be important and necessary , and I be proud to vote for it tonight . when Sam Woods , one of my predecessor as the MP for Makerfield , start his work life at just seven year old , he accompany his father in the pit . by the time he die in 1915 , he have become a strong representative for his fellow miner . he play an instrumental part in the formation of the Labour party and champion the legal limit of eight hour for a single mining shift in the Coal Mines Regulation Act 1908 . he be , like I — as my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests will attest — a proud trade union member . Sam Woods ' s story be partly about the Labour party ' s moral purpose : to improve through Parliament the condition , security and pay of work people in the United Kingdom . but his story be also about the transformative power of work itself . at its good , work be how we contribute to our family , our community and the trajectory of our nation . Coalmining power Britain ' s industrial revolution , provide industry , warmth and energy . it bind the work of ordinary man and woman to the path of our nation . that spirit of production instill the value of respect and hard work in the community I represent — value I continue to hold dear . by contrast , the conservative Benches — sadly , once again so sparsely populated — always seek to resist the change that make work more secure and well pay . they pit the interest of business against worker , of finance against industry , and even sometimes the interest of man against woman . in Sam Woods ' s time , Conservative Members say that regulation would bankrupt business and even increase unemployment . they say that they would harm community such as mine . that be why I be particularly pleased the Bill introduce day one protection for pregnant woman and right to paternity leave . the impact assessment clearly anticipate the reform will have a positive economic impact , which be good for mum , for dad and for growth . I look forward to the upcoming review of share parental leave , which will cover maternity and paternity leave . through work , woman organise their power to advocate for equality at work and at home . through work , we build social bond , relationship and our sense of purpose . now , Britain once again have a Government who recognise that work be at the heart of how we participate in , and contribute to , our family , community and country . the industry and ingenuity of work people up and down this country be what make we who we be . a century ago my predecessor Sam Woods change the law because he understand that . now , I be proud that this Government be once again restore respect and dignity to work , as well as ensure that all work be secure and well pay . that be why it be an honour to support the Bill tonight . as a proud member of Unison , I be delighted to refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be such a pleasure to be here on the Government Benches and rise to back this pro - growth Bill . I do that proudly on behalf of the people of Southampton Itchen , because I know that it will change my constituent ' live for the well . it be the large overhaul of work people ' s right in decade , and it will truly make work pay . that be what this Government be about . as thing stand , unfortunately too many employer put their profit before their staff , and for 14 year the Tory Government be happy to just sit back and do nothing about that . one of my constituent share with I their experience of have their contract change to zero hour behind their back , leave they without shift and unable to make end meet . that have to stop . the Bill rebalance that relationship and put an end to the underhanded move use by some employer . instead it give over 1 million people on zero - hour contract those guarantee hour , and provide all worker with the protection they deserve . we know that a secure job be about more than just a salary ; it be about someone have the peace of mind that they can put food on the table for themselves and their family . the Bill enshrine such basic right in law . with over 16 , 000 unfair dismissal case a year bring to tribunal , and over 200 case every month in the south - east alone , worker be clearly face unjust treatment . remove the qualifying period for unfair dismissal will offer people great security from day one and promote a fair workplace . I want my constituent to have well pay , a well life at work and well parental leave . they be already tell I about their optimism for the Bill . it be a Bill that will benefit employer too , by help to keep people in work , increase staff retention and reduce recruitment cost for employer . that be happen because this Labour Government be pro - business and pro - worker . by increase those protection , level the play field and modernise our working practice , today a new dawn be break for work people . I be proud that it be a transformational Labour Government bring forward the crucial Employment Rights Bill within our first 100 day . I declare that I be a proud member of GMB , Community and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers . I point member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , where I declare donation from those union . I stress that without that money , as a young mum with a small baby , fresh off maternity leave , I would not be stand in this place today . that be a privilege that I believe many member on the Opposition Benches , which I note be largely empty , take for grant . I welcome what be the big uplift in worker ’ right in a generation , build on the legacy of previous Labour Governments . Bolton North East have over 50 % more youth unemployment than the national average . those worker deserve dignity , stability and to know that their Government be on their side , and for the young people in my constituency , it be about know that they have a future . that be why I be incredibly proud to stand in this Chamber today , and I commend the Deputy Prime Minister and my right hon . and hon . friend on the front Benches on bring this legislation before the House . improve the life of work people be one of the thing I come to this place to do , as I be sure many of my colleague do too . with the Government ' s " Next Steps " document already publish , I sincerely hope Ministers will continue that close collaboration to finalise the practicality of the Bill with our trade union movement — the fine detail that will make all the difference to family in my constituency . extend worker ’ right and protection be a crucial step towards make work pay , and I look forward to see further measure to make work pay , such as extend right and protection for self - employ people so that all work people can benefit from these widespread change . this Bill mark a turning point for work family , not just in Bolton but across the UK . as a member of the Women and Equalities Select Committee , I be particularly pleased that among the Bill ' s 30 - plus reform be increase protection from sexual harassment , the introduction of equality action plan , and strengthen right for pregnant worker . I commend the Deputy Prime Minister and her ministerial team on bring this Bill before the House , and I look forward to see its progression . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my membership of the Employment Lawyers Association , the Industrial Law Society , Unite the Union , Community and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers . the treatment of woman in Harvey Weinstein ' s company , UKFast , and plenty of other organisation across the UK be notoriously horrific . a significant number of woman work in workplace that be basically run like medieval fiefdom . corporate governance in the UK appear to largely serve to cover up sexual harassment , and to do very little to prevent it . as someone who have negotiate settlement agreement for a lot of woman who have suffer sexual harassment or maternity discrimination , I do not recognise the description of UK employee that I hear from Conservative Members . they appear to regard employee as desperate to bring employment tribunal at any possible opportunity , but my experience of represent woman in those situation be that they be desperate to avoid bring employment tribunal claim . they think that if they talk about what have happen to they , it will cause they significant reputational damage — that they will be blame for their experience , and that they will never work again . as such , they sign settlement agreement mean that they can not talk about what have happen to they . they do so knowingly , and often for really quite small sum of money , because they be terrified of the amount it will cost they in legal fee if they try to pursue a claim to tribunal . that be one of the reason why I be proud to be a member of trade union and to have give advice to trade union member , because that enable those woman to get the support they need to assert their basic workplace right . a 2016 TUC report talk about the fact that young woman in particular , as well as woman on zero - hour contract , seem to be report high level of sexual harassment at work than other , old woman . in short , those of we who get to a certain age like to hope that thing have get well because we stop personally experience sexual harassment at work . unfortunately , the reality be that young worker , who have less access to advice and support and be more economically vulnerable , continue to receive that harassment year after year . thing be not get well . employment right be fantastic , and it be great that we be improve access to they through this Bill , but when Conservative Members oppose our move to restrict the use of zero - hour contract , they do not understand — so far as I can tell — that those contract , which keep woman in precarious employment , be one of the mechanism by which sexual harassment occur . as such , I commend the Bill to the House . I , too , be a proud member of the GMB . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . this Bill deliver on a key labour manifesto commitment . it provide a framework for the big change in worker ’ right in 50 year . we have hear in this debate that it will ban exploitative zero - hour contract , abolish the scourge of fire and rehire , and modernise trade union law . I would like to focus my comment , though , on the vital reform that this Bill will deliver for young family , and particularly woman , in my constituency of High Peak and across the country . as the conservative leadership debate be shamefully focus on whether woman should have less maternity pay , and whether a woman can be a mother and a leader , let I tell Opposition Members that they can — and they be , in business up and down this country . if the Conservatives join we from wherever they be — perhaps somewhere in the 1950 — they might understand that far well . before I enter this House , I be an employment lawyer advise business small , medium and large . one of the occupational hazard be friend and family want advice about workplace right . the most depressing aspect of those chat be that new mum want and need those conversation most . the story be always basically the same : they have just return to work from maternity leave , and their employer have inform they that they be no long need , their job no long exist , or that they be at risk of redundancy . the joy of that first year to 18 month with a new baby be all but tarnish because of worry about the security of the mother ' s job . an estimate 4 , 000 pregnant woman and mother return from maternity leave be dismiss each year . we have to do well if we be to improve productivity and grow our economy . we have to show young family and young mum that they matter , and that their contribution to society and our economy be value . this Bill will do that . it will create the power to ban the dismissal of woman who be pregnant , on maternity leave , or in the six month follow their return from maternity leave . it be depress that the opposition wish to portray protect mum from dismissal as red tape and a burden on business , when good business know that this be the right thing to do . when I vote for the Bill , I will do it to show every work family in High Peak and in Britain that we be on their side . we be the party that value family . thank you , Madam Speaker , for allow I the privilege of speak in this debate on the Government ' s historic legislation . this really be the moment that all Labour Members fight so hard for . this be what I promise my community , the people of West Dunbartonshire , that my Labour Government and our Prime Minister would deliver . some whom I speak to on the doorstep have give up hope that anyone could change their life for the well . we promise they that we would deliver change — that we would make work pay , and make work fair . this Bill will bring an end to year of low - pay , insecure employment , which not only fail our people but fail the economy . as a solicitor in private practice , I grow tired and demoralise from regularly have to advise my client that there be nothing they could do to save their job or improve their working condition because they have not work for their employer for two year or more . we will establish day one right , but please let we also take on board the Law Society ' s advice . we must properly resource employment tribunal and fully fund legal aid to allow access to this justice that we seek to introduce . I receive a thank - you card from my constituent Sharon from Clydebank . she say to I : " I want to tell you how the New Deal for Working People will make a difference to I . I be employ in social work . my wage have not increase in line with inflation , mean a loss of income . I do a difficult , stressful job in public service and all staff be at break point . from ban exploitative zero hour contract to ensure we have access to worker ' right from day one — thank you for support a New Deal for Working People . " that be the change we promise . this Bill signal the large right upgrade for worker in my constituency of West Dunbartonshire in a generation by end exploitative zero - hour contract and fire and rehire , and by establish day one right . some 7 % of the overall workforce in West Dunbartonshire be pay at or below national minimum wage rate . this Labour Government will make work pay for the lowest - pay in West Dunbartonshire , and assist employer in my constituency by help they to retain their hard - work staff . in Scotland , we have two bad government , and our job in Scotland be only half complete , because it have take the SNP 15 year just to attach condition to the Scottish Government ' s grant on live wage — order . as a proud member of Unite and a former TUC staffer , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in addition , I think ASLEF and the GMB for their kind support of my election campaign . during the election , I meet a young man in Great Bridge in my constituency who be live in a caravan on his parent ' drive , work in a warehouse on a zero - hour contract and not know what his pay packet would be from one week to the next . I say to he , to the one in eight black and asian worker trap in insecure job , and to the 1 million fellow citizen deny the security and the dignity of secure work : " we get it . we know you didn ' t choose a zero - hour contract . " eight in 10 worker on zero - hour contract want regular hour . we will ban those disgraceful contract and — listen up , colleague — we will do so with the support of reputable business , such as Julian Richer ' s Richer Sounds . raise of collective bargaining be indispensable if we want to drive down poverty and inequality , and that be what this Bill will do . this Bill will allow union to get into more workplace and tell more worker why they should join a union . no employer need to fear union if they be confident that they act fairly towards their worker , and that their site be safe , so we will legislate to make sure that union can get into every workplace . after all , do we really think that ambulance would have be at those Sports Direct warehouse 76 time in two year , include for a woman who give birth in the toilet , if there have be union check safety on that site ? that be why union need the right to go into workplace . as a side note , the rule on access have to be practical , so I gently say to my right hon . friend that the access agreement as draft in the Bill give rogue employer just a few too many way to keep union out , and I hope we can sort that . this be not just about get union into workplace ; it be about get union recognise , and have the right to negotiate as equal at the table with the boss on wage , condition and more . the change on recognition be fantastic , and be to be celebrate . I hope we can go just a little far and end the three - year lockout , follow a fail recognition ballot , that have keep union out of the workplace , just as GMB worker be keep out of Amazon . the work class be the backbone of this country . contrary to what opposition Front Benchers say , worker be the dog , not the tail . we all deserve security at work and a decent wage . I will be so proud to vote for this Bill — Order . I , too , draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and my membership of Unite and the GMB . I welcome the Bill , and I know that my constituent in Mansfield will , too . there be two key aspect of it that they will be particularly keen to see . first , it offer the right to collective bargaining on pay for those in social care . People in that sector do incredible work , with long shift and unsociable hour . I be sure that the whole House will join I in thank the more than 1 . 5 million people who work in social care across the UK . it be a scandal that , despite the importance of their work , many be pay the minimum wage and struggle to provide for their family . I recall a particularly striking encounter on the doorstep in Mansfield during the recent general election campaign ; I speak to a former adult care worker , who tell I that they have become a dog walker because the pay be well . we be a nation of dog lover , but that be not acceptable to I . the second aspect relate to sick pay . million of worker in the UK be entitle to minimum statutory sick pay only , which stand at £ 116 a week , and they be not eligible for any sick pay for the first three day of sickness . opposition member clearly feel that that be perfectly acceptable , because they take no action on it over the past 14 year , but I wonder how many of they could feed their family and pay their bill on £ 116 a week . only recently , almost 300 worker in my constituency have be on strike , include porter , cleaner and cook employ by Medirest , a private contractor in my local NHS trust in Mansfield . support by my union , the GMB , they take a stand , because Medirest company boss refuse to keep their term and condition , include on sickness pay , in line with those of colleague employ directly by the NHS . all those worker want be the right to reasonable sick pay . the Bill will help to strengthen statutory sick pay , and for that reason my constituent and I support it , and I commend it to the House . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud GMB member ; I be tell that there be now more of we here than there be conservative mps . our economy be fundamentally rig against million of worker . how else could we describe an economy where many people ' s pay do not cover the essential , where there be people in work who be reliant on food bank , and where the state have to top up poverty wage through universal credit ? Nottingham have some of the low average income in the country , and my constituent be tired . they be tired of live from pay cheque to pay cheque , tired of be unable to save , and tired of have to choose between go to work sick or fall into debt . People ' s mental health be suffer as they work multiple job to make end meet , or worry that they will not be give enough hour to pay the bill . that can not go on , which be why the Bill be so important . the Bill be about make work pay and create a well work - life balance , and a more family - friendly economy . it be about fix the problem that previous conservative Governments allow to fester , or even encourage . the 1 million people on zero - hour contract deserve security , and the Bill will give they the option of guarantee hour . those who miss work because they be sick deserve to be pay , and the Bill will entitle they to statutory sick pay from day one . every worker deserve to earn enough to afford the essential , and the Bill will mean that the cost of living be account for when set the minimum wage , and remove discriminatory age band . the Bill be an investment in our future . make work pay will give people more money to spend in the local economy , and improve people ' s health , ease the pressure on public service . we have hear scare story from Conservative Members before . they tell we that the minimum wage would cause an unemployment crisis ; it be not true . they want the public to fear trade union , but trade unionist be not the bogeyman that the conservative party present they as . they be our postman , our child ' s teacher , and the nurse who care for our sick parent . trade union be the combine power of million of ordinary work people . from health and safety improvement to hold bad boss to account and advance gender equality , trade union be a force for good in all our life . I welcome their strengthening through the Bill , but I would like we to go far and scrap every anti - union law introduce since the Thatcher Government come to power . we must not stop here . the Bill be a vital first step to deliver the new deal for work people and reset our rigged economy , but it be just that — a first step . we must also close all fire and rehire loophole , create a single status of worker , and extend collective bargaining . like many of we today , I proudly say that I be a member of the GMB and of USDAW . alas , I can not declare any donation from either of those organisation , but we do still have a good stock of USDAW carrier bag , which everybody know be the cornerstone of any labour campaign centre . I be also recently the director of a mid - sized technology firm . the attitude from those on the shadow Front Bench towards flexible working be frankly out of date and divorce from where the labour market be currently in that sector and many other . perhaps they might like to reflect on that . I welcome the Employment Rights Bill and its potential to reshape the landscape of employment in our country to help deliver economic growth and to make work pay . for too long , british worker have endure the burden of insecure contract , low pay and inadequate protection in the workplace . that can not and must not continue , and it be exactly what the Bill will fix . it will enhance the right and wellbeing of worker and restore dignity , fairness and respect to the workplace , while foster a robust environment for business and contribute to the overall health of the economy . whether it be end exploitative zero - hour contract and fire and rehire practice , establish day one right for paternity , parental and bereavement leave for million of worker , or strengthen statutory sick pay , this Bill be a pivotal step towards achieve fair and more equitable workplace . in the limited time I have , I want to consider the Bill ' s provision on collective bargaining in two sector . the return of the school support staff negotiate body be an important and welcome first step in improve the pay and condition of teach assistant , technician and other who do vital work keep our school run . their work often require specialist technical knowledge . they be provide essential support for child with special educational need , and they be also disproportionately woman , and their pay have not keep pace with teacher because of wide pay freeze in local government . I hope that this step will precipitate a broad reassessment of the value of school support staff and ultimately bring about the demise of unfair " term - time only " contract that see staff lose around £ 4 , 000 a year . the Bill ' s provision to establish an adult social care negotiating body be also incredibly welcome , but I urge the Minister to go far and provide a framework to provide for a negotiate body in any sector , with the sectoral specific definition implement in secondary legislation . that would the allow the Secretary of State to roll out collective bargaining more quickly and easily to other similar sector . I urge Ministers to give that consideration , as the Department bring amendment to the Bill in its passage through the House . take as a whole , the measure in this Bill , along with our wide plan to make work pay , promise to create a future where every worker can thrive , business can flourish and our economy can prosper . that be why I be proud to support it . I must declare that I be a proud member of the Community and GMB union , and — this may be of interest to the opposition — in my previous role I be an employment lawyer to organisation from FTSE 100 company to our NHS . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) might like to reflect on and apologise for his patronising comment to Government Members . the Bill will provide the most substantial upgrade to worker ' right in a generation and greatly benefit many in my constituency of Gloucester . secure , well - pay work for all my constituent be the good way to tackle the legacy of the Tory cost of living crisis . the Bill will take action on zero - hour contract , which leave worker vulnerable to financial instability and uncertainty . I support the Government in end that exploitative practice , so that my constituent can benefit from guarantee hour . the Bill will strengthen the right to flexible working , which be essential not only for enhance work - life balance , but for reduce pay gap in our workplace . I support measure by the Government to support people in Gloucester to enter back into work in an inclusive and supportive way . the Conservatives double the qualifying period for unfair dismissal , leave 8 . 5 million worker without protection . the Government will establish an unfair dismissal policy from day one , which will directly support many of my constituent , particularly those on low income . the Bill will strengthen paternity leave and champion the right of woman in the workplace through enhanced menopause support and protection from sexual harassment . it will improve the pay and condition of school support staff and social care worker . we all rely on those vital service , and I be pleased to support the Government in value the vital work of our social care worker , particularly those in my constituency . let we not forget the consequence of conservative policy , which have lead to chaotic industrial relation , leave many of my constituent bad off amid a cost of living crisis . after 14 year of stagnate wage , million of life have be disrupt and our economy have suffer immensely . industrial action in the NHS alone cost taxpayer £ 1 . 7 billion — a staggering sum that could have be invest in the public service that we all rely on . the Conservatives have consistently oppose worker ’ right , but we will always champion they . I have be shock by the vitriol from the Opposition towards hard - work people get basic right like not be sexually harass at work ; they be out of touch . this government will deliver a strong , fair and bright future by make work pay , grow the economy , raise living standard and create opportunity for all . the Bill mark the beginning of a new deal for work people and a bright future for Gloucester . I declare my proud membership of the Communication Workers Union and that , by virtue of my last name , I be the only legitimate union Barron in this House — I be proud of that fact . the Bill be a step change and a new deal for work people . it be transformational for so many in my constituency of Corby and East Northants because , for too long , the world of work have not pay . let ' s make no bone about it : this be about growth . we do not believe that the economy can grow base on insecure job , zero - hour contract and bogus self - employment . People need more than that to feed their family . that be why the Bill be so essential . this legislation will give work people a sense of fairness in the world of work , where they can play their part in build our economy and be treat as they should be in our society — with the security , dignity and respect that a job should bring . our value should not stop at the front door of our workplace ; they be an essential part of it . in this debate , Opposition Members have turn around and say that we be do this to they : " business don ' t want this ; no one want it apart from you lot . " well , if they have a look at the poll conduct by the Institute for Public Policy Research along with the TUC , they would see that 60 % of employer say that employee should have more security at work ; 74 % believe that strengthen employment right would improve workforce retention ; 73 % say that strengthen employment right would boost productivity ; 61 % think that strong employment right would have a positive impact on business profitability ; and 73 % say that they would be prepare to support give employee protection from unfair dismissal from the first day . this be not be do to anybody . it be be do with they , and we should be proud of that . here be my final point : we pay million to people who look after our money , but we pay peanut to those who look after our people . that need to change . that be why I be so pleased to support the improvement to pay and condition through fair pay agreement , start in the care sector . they be the one who need it . we need to deal with the recruitment and retention of the people who look after our love one , so that they know from one day to the next who will be come around and wash their body . it need to be do ; it can not stay as it be . that be why we should support the Bill . as many member have do , I proudly register my membership of the GMB and Unison , and that I be a co - owner of a small business . one of the consequence of the last 14 year be insecurity in every part of british life . Hartlepool people , who I represent , be insecure in their community , in their home and in their job . that be why I welcome the Bill , which have security at its heart , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , end fire and rehire , and provide day one right . listen to Opposition Members — maybe the shadow Minister could reflect on this in his wind - up speech — I would like to know on what day the conservative party believe it suddenly become not okay to unfairly dismiss somebody . what be that time ? if it be anything other than day one , then quite frankly they be abandon the worker of this country . the Bill do more than give security to worker . it give people dignity : the dignity to grieve without have to ask permission ; the dignity to choose to become a parent without have to worry if it will affect their opportunity in the workplace ; the dignity of know that they can afford to be ill ; and the dignity of know that they can turn up to work and be safe . security and dignity be what british worker , include in Hartlepool , deserve . when people have security and dignity in the workplace , they get opportunity : the opportunity to grow , to develop , to train , to become well at what they do and to become more productive . in recent day , I have hear people on the right of politic suggest that the Bill be somehow an attack on the " wealth creator " of our country . what nonsense . let we be absolutely clear : the wealth of this country be create by its worker . through the dignity , security and opportunity that the Bill provide , we will grow our economy and give respect to every worker in my constituency and beyond . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as a GMB member , it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate . I feel , and my hon . friend feel , that a substantial uplift to employment right be long overdue . for far too long , it have be too difficult to get ahead , and too many work people — people who have work hard — have see their finance deteriorate , push they into hardship . they have do the right thing that society expect of they and they be get very little in return : they have cut back on the essential ; they have seek extra hour at work ; they have have to find second job ; they have sell furnishing and access food pantry just to keep their head above water — and they find that there be still too much month at the end of their money . in 2022 , the Low Pay Commission estimate that 20 % of minimum wage worker and 20 % of living wage worker do not receive what they have earnt in wage , sick pay and holiday . the great pay robbery will not be leave to continue anymore . that be why it be crucial that the Bill establish the fair work agency , make sure that everyone be play by the same rule — and those rule be simple : dignity in work and fair pay . the Bill be long overdue and far too many be miss out on what they be owe . in the groundbreaking first day of this Labour Government , they mandate that the minimum wage must reflect the cost of live not just this year but every year , match the earning of hard - work people to the bill they face for food , energy and transport . across Scotland , that mean a direct pay boost to over 100 , 000 people , include to over 2 , 500 people in the west lothian area and 3 , 000 people in the Falkirk area . I be proud that this Labour Government be lead business and trade union to work together to get the economy fire up and to make sure that the people of this country be pay fairly . the Bill be start where we leave off , with a plan to make work pay , and with fair sick pay , real holiday pay , a clampdown on precarious employment , an end to fire and rehire , and proper hour of work and proper earning to match . the Bill make it clear that it be time to go for growth : a strong , fair , bright future for work in the UK . let I declare first that I be a proud member of both Unite the Union and the Community trade union , and secondly that I be even proud that the Bill will positively transform thousand of life across the Clackmannanshire and Falkirk council area that I serve in this place . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) for their comment about prison officer . under section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 , prison officer be ban from take industrial action . correctly , the Scottish Parliament restore the right to strike in 2015 , but today prison officer in the rest of the United Kingdom find themselves in a poor position than their scottish counterpart , in that they be not allow to withdraw their labour . section 127 have also limit trade union ' ability to protect prison officer from wage stagnation and attack on their term and condition , which have lead to a recruitment and retention crisis and , naturally , to low morale . as in profession such as nursing , the police , the fire brigade and teaching , it be often the camaraderie of colleague on the shift that keep thing go in a job that provide a vital public service that have be disgracefully underfunde . the state of our prison be well document . ruthless conservative austerity have hammer the service . More than a quarter of prison officer have leave since 2012 . prison officer be not exempt from the Conservative Government ' s raise of the public sector pension age to 68 , which , give the physical nature of the day - to - day work , be obviously unfair , unrealistic and , of course , incredibly dangerous . since that wealth of experience have leave , violence direct at both officer and prisoner have escalate . the prison system be another mess that this Government have inherit and must now sort . prison officer should have the right to retire at 60 or after 30 year ' service : it be just the right thing to do for employee . no one should feel like a disposable commodity that be there to be exploit and then discard when every last ounce of work have be wring out of they . it be also right that prison officer in the rest of the UK achieve parity with scottish prison officer : they too should have a fundamental right to withdraw their labour . rise — Order . there will now be an immediate two - minute speaking limit . I declare my interest as a member of Unison and Unite . in May last year , I condemn the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 for the consequence that it would have for trade union . I welcome the fact that this Bill will repeal that Act , and I pay tribute to trade union and their member for their tireless campaigning . I be keen to hear from the Minister whether the protection for pregnant worker , specifically the right to maternity pay , will be a day one right , and whether there be scope to circumscribe redundancy during pregnancy and maternity leave . if so , will he consider add those change to the Bill at a later stage ? there be no doubt that the Bill be hugely positive . however , like my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , I want to say something about prison officer , who can not strike because of section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act , that Tory - era legislation . there be three prison in my constituency and I know about the hardship that prison officer face , which be push many of they to the brink . I hope that the Minister will be able to meet representative from the POA and work to repeal section 127 so that its member can have real equality with their fellow trade unionist in other union . what we have here be a series of policy that will drastically improve the life of worker across the country . the Bill be an important first step towards ensure that all worker can realise their own dignity and worth through their work . the fact that we have it before we today be a testament to the strength of organise labour and the resolve of trade unionist throughout the country . I be a member of Unite the Union and be the parliamentary chair of the Fire Brigades Union . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . after year of tory attack on trade union and worker ’ right , the Bill will begin to reverse decade of thatcherite anti - union law , mark a real shift in the balance of power at work . the repeal of minimum service level for strike be a major victory : those law be tool of class warfare that be design to break the union and silence worker . scrap they restore the right to strike , a win for every worker . equally important be the removal of the undemocratic ballot threshold impose by the Tories in 2016 . those barrier undermine collective action . by remove they , we reclaim the power take from we . permit electronic and workplace balloting be another welcome move that will expand democratic participation , but it be not enough . we must go far and repeal every single anti - trade union law since Thatcher . in its current form , the Bill retain the six - month mandate on strike ballot . strike be not battle of a few day or week ; they be draw - out struggle for justice and dignity . worker in Coventry South who be fight union - bust corporate giant such as Amazon know that these fight can last year . they need mandate that match the reality . we should abolish they entirely and repeal the Trade Union Act 2016 in its entirety , as the Government commit to do . sectoral collective bargaining for social care and support staff be a good start , but all worker across all industry deserve that protection . voluntary agreement on union access be not enough . union organiser need guarantee automatic access . we should also guarantee automatic union recognition when a majority of member join . worker have already wait for a decade under Tory rule while their right have be strip away , their wage have stagnate and they have be subject to rogue operator such as P & o . we can not afford more delay while powerful interest water down reform . this legislation be a victory for the trade union movement , but the fight be far from over . we need radical change , and that be what I will keep fight for . I draw hon . member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a proud member of the Communication Workers Union and the GMB and be a former official of Unison . it be a huge source of personal pride to I as a former trade union official that our Government have introduce a Bill that will deliver the great uplift in worker ’ right in a generation . while the Conservatives have focus on scaremongere during this debate , it be important to remember the fact . hard - work people be the trade union movement of this country . no one on the Government Benches will deny our pride in that . the TUC estimate that 1 . 1 million employee do not receive any of the holiday pay to which they be entitle last year . this Bill support those ordinary hard - work people . last year , 4 , 000 pregnant woman and mother return from maternity leave be dismiss . this Bill support those hard - work people . some 1 . 7 million people be out of the labour market because they have to look after their family . this Bill support those hard - work people . there be 3 , 800 worker across my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South who earn the minimum wage . this Bill support those hard - work people . I commend it to the House and be pleased that our Government have strengthen its enforcement measure . rise — order . the Front - Bench speech will start at 9 . 40 pm , so the final Back - Bench speaker will be Michael Wheeler . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , to my membership of USDAW and the GMB and to the fact that I chair USDAW ' s parliamentary group . I spend my career as a trade unionist work to well the life of people in low - pay and insecure work . they be exactly the sort of people who will benefit from the measure in the Bill , but the Bill go so much far . I be proud to have stand on an election platform that put improve the condition of all worker at the heart of the change that be promise . I be even proud to be stand here today support the Government who be deliver that . I will focus on one element of the Bill : the right to a contract that reflect the hour that someone regularly work . too many people be contract for pitifully few hour and be utterly reliant on additional hour that can fluctuate too wildly to provide financial security , with no guarantee that they will not be take away at the whim of an employer . measure in the Bill will take step to rebalance that . if the hour be regularly need by the employer and work by the worker , it be only fair that they be guarantee in the contract . while hugely welcome the Bill , I urge the Minister to consider the use of the word " low " in its drafting , as it might unfortunately limit the benefit and lead to unintended consequence . I ask the Minister to work with trade union , as the organise representative of worker , to ensure that the maximum number of work people benefit from this new right . I will be proud to vote for this Bill tonight . I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . we be approach the end of a long and robust debate , with a total of 71 speech so far and no few than seven maiden speech . the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) speak powerfully and very impressively . the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) speak memorably of overcome considerable adversity and of her considerable achievement , culminate in her arrival in this House . the hon . member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) give a move tribute to her late parent . the hon . member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) lay down an ambitious claim to have the high number of castle in his constituency and talk of his grandfather serve on fly boat in world war two , which be something that he and I share . the hon . member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) speak of his and his family ' s great pride in his take his seat here in Parliament . the hon . member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) speak fluently about the history of her constituency , in a deeply impressive speech . on the Opposition side , my hon . friend the Member for Leicester East ( Shivani Raja ) talk about the entrepreneurial spirit of Leicestershire and about her fear that it could be erode by the Bill . she also , I suspect , achieve a first for Parliament by manage to shoehorn a reference to Showaddywaddy into Hansard . my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) speak movingly of her grandparent ' escape from Nazi Germany and amusingly of the Labour party ' s contribution to introduce her parent , ultimately lead to the creation of a future Conservative MP . I commend all hon . member who make their first mark in this House in a debate on so important a subject . I be sure that they will serve their constituent diligently in the come year ; I wish they all well . there be much that the opposition believe be wrong with the Bill , but I have limit time , so I will focus primarily on one element — the role of the trade union , because their influence run right through it . if , as expect , the House decline to support the amendment in the name of the shadow Business Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , and grant the Bill a second reading , there will be time to explore the Bill ' s many other problem in Committee . a run theme throughout the debate be hon . member ' enthusiastic declaration of membership of trade union , but for some reason they forget to mention how much they have receive in financial donation from they . I remind they and the House that , accord to the LabourList website , the Government mp who have speak today have accumulate a total of £ 371 , 974 in donation from the trade union . those donation be no surprise . the public be quickly become acclimatise to the idea that this Labour party be in the pocket of the high bidder , whether that be Taylor Swift , Lord Alli or indeed the trade union . I be , however , pleasantly surprise by the number of hon . member on the Government Benches who have speak in today ' s debate . when I attend the Bill briefing kindly organise by the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , just a handful of Labour Members be in attendance , but today they have turn up in great number to sing the Bill ' s praise . it be to their credit that they be here . perhaps they have read or watch news of the harm that this Bill will bring and be quietly apprehensive , but have put their head above the parapet regardless . however , when push come to shove , they remember that they will be up for re - election in four or five year ' time , and they have to think about their trade union donor . very early in this debate , my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) say that the Bill be about not growth , but ideology . he be right . this be a trade union charter that will send Britain back to the 1970 . of course , we know that that be a goal of the Deputy Prime Minister , who have say that she want to repeal union legislation date back as far as the 1980 . I appreciate that neither the Secretary of State for Business and Trade nor the Deputy Prime Minister be bear until the 1980 , so they will not remember the time when Britain be bring to a grind halt by the trade union . the light be switch off , body be leave unburied and rubbish pile up all over the place . it be at this point that I remind member that their constituent will see how they vote today . I understand that the inboxe of Labour Members be already full , follow the freebie scandal , the cash - for - access scandal , the political choice to take away the winter fuel payment and the concern about tax rise in the Budget . they have my sympathy , but I warn they that their inboxe be about to get even busy . when the junior doctor strike , mean that their constituent can not access important medical treatment , they will know that it be facilitate by this legislation . when local council strike , mean that their constituent can not get their bin collect , they will know that it be facilitate by this legislation . when the train driver strike , mean that their constituent can not see their love one , they will know that it be facilitate by this legislation . and when small business fail because they can not cope with the massive extra bureaucracy and cost , they will know that it be facilitate by this legislation . as the letter pile high from constituent who be unable to access the service they expect , Labour Members might want to hire more staff , or ask their current staff to work late , but they will be prevent from do so by the very regulation bring in by this legislation , which they support . labour ' s misunderstanding of labour relation go right to the top . when the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care announce that a deal have be reach with the British Medical Association , he say that he be make a real difference . however , we now know that the deal have fail and the BMA be already begin preparation for further strike action just week after accept the pay deal . I represent a Greater London constituency and I , of course , remember the Mayor of London ' s promise that there would be no Transport for London strike under his regime , but that be not go very well either . we now learn , thank to the late copy of Civil Service World , that there be set to be strike in the Secretary of State ' s own Department . all of that be before this Bill be introduce . it be clear that , despite be in the pocket of its trade union paymaster , Labour ' s approach to industrial relation have fail and will continue to fail . much of the reason for that future failure will be the rush job that be this Bill . it have be rush to the House so quickly that it contain few than half of the measure include in the plan to make work pay — a fact recognise by the Government ' s " next step to make work pay " document . a vast amount of it will require secondary legislation to take effect . the Prime Minister have talk incessantly of the Government ' s mission to pursue growth , which be an entirely laudable aim , but growth do not just happen . sometimes , the Government have to do thing to facilitate it , and sometimes the Government must not do thing that would jeopardise it . the measure in this rush Bill threaten to destroy any prospect of economic growth . I be sure the Secretary of State will deny it , but the fact remain that the trade union will always win out against the Labour party . the union have donate almost £ 30 million to the Labour party since 2020 . accord to LabourList , 16 Cabinet Ministers and more than 200 Labour mp have receive training and donation , average £ 9 , 500 each . this rush Bill be the first part of what the trade union have buy with their money : the chance to massively increase their power base , not just in the public sector but in the private sector , especially in small business . this will not lead to growth , unless the Prime Minister be talk about growth in red tape and growth in the trade union ' ability to choke the economy . this rush Bill be not a charter for economic growth ; it be a charter for industrial strife , plunge productivity , rise unemployment , inflation and economic ruin . this rush Bill be not fit for purpose , and the Government should withdraw it and think again . I thank right hon . and hon . member across the House for an informed debate on the Employment Rights Bill and the Government ' s plan to make work pay . in closing , I declare to the House that I be a proud member of the Unite and USDAW trade union . even more proudly , I declare that I come from exactly the kind of working - class family that stand to gain from the measure . as this be Second reading , let we remember the history and context lead up to the debate . in recent time , work have change a great deal . we have see the impact of technology and the gig economy , and we have have work from home in the pandemic . many thing have change what work be for many people . that have create a need to consider whether our employment law be up to date . indeed , it be the Conservatives , under Boris Johnson , who first promise an employment Bill in their 2019 manifesto , but they do not deliver . the subsequent queen ' s Speech , after the 2019 election , include an employment Bill , but again the Conservatives do not deliver . in contrast , this Labour Government not only promise an employment Bill ; we have deliver one , and in just 100 day . meanwhile , it appear that some conservative Members do not even support the exist provision of thing like maternity pay , so there have be some difference in opinion between member on opposite side of the House today . it be a proud day for the new Government , but it be a prouder day for Britain ' s worker , many of whom can now look forward to a future with far great security and stability than they have at present . quite simply , good work and good wage be what this Labour Government be send to this place to deliver , and that be exactly what this Bill be about . I take pride in the fact that the new Government have work closely with all party in draw up this legislation , act pragmatically and listen at all time . the result be a Bill that will make a huge difference to the life of million of work people , while be proportionate , fair and reasonable in the ask it make of business , recognise that the majority of business operate in the UK already do so to a high standard than even this Bill would introduce . we would not have know that from listen to the depressing speech make by conservative Members today . People would not know that Sainsbury ' s already pay a living wage ; that instead of zero - hour contact , McDonald ' s already offer contract that provide guarantee hour ; that the Mace Group offer full trade union access to worker on construction site ; that Mars Wrigley offer equal parental leave ; and that BT Group already have carer ' s leave . frankly , what we hear from the Conservatives today be binary , outdated and extremely depressing , but I be delighted to hear such significant support for the Bill from the Government Benches , and from all around the House . some member raise specific point . I wish I have time to respond to all of they , but I want to acknowledge the tremendous maiden speech we hear . the hon . member for Leicester East ( Shivani Raja ) give an incredibly gracious speech about her predecessor , in a very skilful way , which be not easy when she have to defeat several of they to get her place in the House . the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) tell an incredibly powerful family story , weave into a wonderful description of her constituency , and she extoll the romantic benefit of campaign for the Labour party , which be something we can all get behind . my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) capture the glorious industrial heritage of her area in a way that be extremely relevant to today ' s debate . my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) give a speech that testify to the fact that politic can be a force for good , and it be wonderful to hear . my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Fleetwood ( Lorraine Beavers ) show passion and commitment in every word she speak ; I can not wait to hear more from she . my hon . friend the Member for Dover and Deal ( Mike Tapp ) show his commitment to public service , which have run throughout his entire life ; again , it be a wonderful speech to listen to . my hon . friend the Member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) manage to draw a comparison between his constituency and ancient Rome , which be particularly skilful . his speech be funny , warm , authentic and passionate . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) , the MP for the area know for Robert Owen , make a wonderful and apt contribution to the debate , with a tribute to hard work and the reward it can bring — again , it be wonderful to listen to . unfortunately , I must give the House some negative advice : to reject the reason amendment in the name of the new shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . quite frankly , lad , it be a bit of a mess , isn ' t it , as motion go ? it claim credit for measure the Conservatives once oppose , such as the minimum wage . it oppose the fair work agency , which they use to support . it claim that there will be more strike , when they preside over a record number of day lose to strike action , and it show even less self - awareness when it come to the burden on small business . let we not forget who call the referendum on leave the European Union , with no preparation for either result . the serious point be this : the conservative record be one of stagnant wage , low business investment and low productivity . frankly , it be a record of failure . that be why we must act differently . the shadow Secretary of State claim that the Bill be rush . nothing could be far from the truth . the fact that the Bill be ready in 100 day be testament to the brilliance of the civil service and the resilience of the british model of government . the impact assessment we have publish show that these measure will increase total employment cost by 0 . 4 % , but we know that small business face proportionately great up - front cost from regulatory change . that be why we be work with they closely to make sure that these reform , and the speed at which they be implement , work for they . however , I want to be clear that we will not allow for the creation of a two - tier market where someone ' s protection as a worker depend on the size of their employer . that would create an uneven playing field and exactly the kind of disincentive to grow that we see too many of under the last Conservative Government . the shadow Secretary of State also raise the question of vexatious claim under day one right . the point he miss be that there be already some day one right . protection for whistleblower be a day one right . disability discrimination protection be a day one right . if his worry be vexatious claim , those could be bring under the exist system . I think that be a major weakness in his argument . we hear speech pay tribute to what this Bill will do on parental leave . on fire and rehire , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for his work prepare these measure . I will also say one more thing on impact assessment to set that 0 . 4 % impact on the UK ' s total pay bill in context . last year , the UK ' s total wage cost be £ 1 . 3 trillion . to draft a Bill that will have such an impact for so many worker , with a direct benefit transfer to low - pay worker , and to keep it as proportionate as that is , I believe , an achievement . finally , on zero - hour contract , we be not take away flexibility , but make flexibility two - way . we be ensure that worker have the right to a contract that reflect the number of hour they regularly work , while allow they to remain on a zero - hour contract if that be what they want . we be make sure that flexibility work in both direction . there be no reason why that should in any way adversely affect seasonal work compare with what we have at present . to close , this be a proud day for this Labour Government . this be a change of direction . it be a change to a well and more productive culture of industrial relation in this country . in the case we be make as a new government , we be not alone . study after study show the benefit of invest in the workforce , in well productivity , well resilience and more market dynamism . this Bill make good on our promise to the british people to change their life for the well , to deliver an economy that work for they , and to end the poor pay , poor working condition and poor job security that have hold too many people back for too long . for all those reason , I proudly commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Mike Wood Greg Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 386 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Kate Dearden Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Mike Wood Greg Smith the House divide : Ayes 386 , Noes 105 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Employment Rights Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Employment Rights ( Programme ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 21 January 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Employment Rights Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Employment Rights Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by a person hold office under his Majesty or by a government department , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide , and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft Carbon Dioxide Transport and Storage ( Determination of Turnover for Penalties ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , dangerous drug that the draft Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 2 September , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Insurance and Reinsurance Undertakings ( Prudential Requirements ) ( Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 5 September , be approve . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . Backbench Business Ordered , that Wendy Morton be a member of the Backbench Business Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) business and Trade Ordered , that Antonia Bance , John Cooper , Sarah Edwards , Sonia Kumar , Alison Griffiths , Gregor Poynton , Matt Western and Rosie wrighting be member of the Business and Trade Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) culture , Media and Sport Ordered , that Mr Bayo Alaba , Mims Davies , Mr James Frith , Dr Rupa Huq , Natasha Irons , Jo Platt , Tom Rutland and Paul Waugh be member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Defence Ordered , that Mr Calvin Bailey , Alex Baker , Lincoln Jopp , Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck , Jesse Norman , Michelle Scrogham , Fred Thomas and Derek Twigg be member of the Defence Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Education order , that Jess Asato , Mrs Sureena Brackenridge , Dr Caroline Johnson , Amanda Martin , Darren Paffey , Mark Sewards , Patrick Spencer and Dr Marie Tidball be member of the Education Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Energy Security and Net Zero Ordered , that Sir Christopher Chope , Torcuil Crichton , Josh MacAlister , Luke Murphy , Ms Polly Billington , Annaliese Midgley , Ms Julie Minns and Bradley Thomas be member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) environment , Food and Rural Affairs order , that Sarah Bool and Charlie Dewhirst be member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Foreign Affairs order , that Aphra Brandreth , Dan Carden , Blair McDougall , Matthew Patrick , Claire Hazelgrove , Uma Kumaran , Abtisam Mohamed and Sir John Whittingdale be member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Health and Social Care Ordered , that Danny Beales , Ben Coleman , Dr Beccy Cooper , Deirdre Costigan , Jen Craft , Josh Fenton - Glynn , Paulette Hamilton , Gregory Stafford and Joe Robertson be member of the Health and Social Care Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Home Affairs order , that Shaun Davies , Robbie Moore , Chris Murray , Mr Connor Rand , Jake Richards , Margaret Mullane , Joani Reid and Bell Ribeiro - Addy be member of the Home Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) housing , Communities and Local Government Ordered , that Mike Amesbury , Lewis Cocking , Chris Curtis , Maya Ellis , Naushabah Khan , Mr Gagan Mohindra , Joe Powell and Sarah Smith be member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) International Development Ordered , that Noah Law , Gordon McKee , Sam Rushworth , David Taylor , Laura Kyrke - Smith , Alice Macdonald , David Mundell and David Reed be member of the International Development Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Justice order , that Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Pam Cox , Linsey Farnsworth , Sir Ashley Fox , Warinder Juss , Mrs Sarah Russell , Dr Neil Shastri - Hurst and Mike Tapp be member of the Justice Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Northern Ireland Affairs order , that Alicia Kearns and Jerome Mayhew be member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Accounts order , that Peter Fortune and Rebecca Paul be member of the Committee of Public Accounts . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) science , Innovation and Technology Ordered , that Emily Darlington , George Freeman , Dr Allison Gardner , Kit Malthouse , Steve Race , Josh Simons , Dr Lauren Sullivan and Adam Thompson be member of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Scottish Affairs order , that Harriet Cross and Jack Rankin be member of the Scottish Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Transport Ordered , that Katie Lam and Rebecca Smith be member of the Transport Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Treasury Ordered , that Dame Harriett Baldwin , Rachel Blake , John Glen , Dame Siobhain McDonagh , Lola McEvoy , Lucy Rigby , Dr Jeevun Sandher and Yuan Yang be member of the Treasury Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) work and Pensions Ordered , that Johanna Baxter , Neil Coyle , Damien Egan , Gill german , Amanda Hack and David Pinto - Duschinsky be member of the Work and Pensions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Taxi Licensing : Deregulation Act 2015 Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I give my sincere thank to the Minister for take time to engage in this crucial debate . taxi licensing be not merely a technical matter ; it strike at the heart of issue of fairness and safety , and affect the livelihood of hard - work taxi driver in my constituency , in Harlow and surround village such as Lower Nazeing . although this issue be of nationwide concern , as I hope be evidence by the many mp who will speak tonight , I will focus primarily on experience in Harlow . I be not here to rehash argument surround the Deregulation Act 2015 , which be introduce with the good intention , but we can not ignore reality and the unintended consequence of that legislation , which have leave taxi driver vulnerable , passenger at risk , and the integrity of local oversight severely compromise . I congratulate my hon . friend on the point he be make in his excellent speech . in 2022 , the independent inquiry into child sexual exploitation in Telford publish its report . it highlight concern that : " so far as national policy be concern … aspect of taxi licensing … undermine rather than promote good practice " in respect of tackle child sexual exploitation . do he agree that those concern should be address by the Minister ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I be sure that the Minister will address those concern in his closing remark . I have seek this debate to bring attention to the grow danger foster under the current system . the 2015 Act have open a loophole , allow private hire driver to license their vehicle in district authority far from where they operate . in practice , this mean that driver be no long bind by local standard . instead , they can shop around for the cheap licence anywhere in the country , then return to work wherever they choose . Harlow have long have the gold standard for its taxi service — standard that our local driver proudly meet . why be that ? it be because they know , as I do , that nothing be more important than the safety of their passenger . taxi licensing enforcement be fund by licence fee . however , with the ongoing race to the bottom for licence issuing standard , local authority be unable to enforce externally issue licence . any measure to allow local authority to enforce would simply stretch enforcement budget beyond sustainability . do my hon . friend agree that the solution have to be guide by the principle that driver should operate in the area in which they be license ? order . I remind member that intervention should be short . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that the principle should be that driver should be license by the local authority for the area in which they be operate . cross - border hiring be undermine high standard , and it strip council like Harlow of the power to oversee and enforce proper regulation . a driver who lose their licence in one district can simply apply for a licence elsewhere and continue operate with little or no scrutiny . local authority lack the enforcement power to police out - of - town driver , and that leave a gape hole in our public safety framework . how can we claim to protect our constituent , when such fundamental weakness exist in our system ? I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . do my hon . friend agree that the lack of scrutiny may pose a risk to member of the public , particularly in safeguarding and the safety of vehicle ? in Sheffield , where I be from , the licensing team be unable to check the vehicle on the road and whether they be be drive by properly license driver . my hon . friend be right ; this be not just a bureaucratic oversight , but a public safety crisis wait to happen . vehicle be not be inspect regularly enough and driver be not be vet thoroughly enough . passenger , who trust that any taxi they step into be safe , be the one leave expose . Taxis often serve the most vulnerable member of our community . can we truly say that we be do our duty to protect they under these condition ? the inconsistency in signage requirement across different district only deepen the confusion . in Harlow , we enforce clear and visible signage — a rooftop box for taxi and door sign for private hire vehicle . not every district require that and , as a result , passenger be leave guess whether the vehicle they be enter be legitimate and safe , and local council be force to battle through bureaucratic layer just to verify the safety and legality of those vehicle . that be unacceptable . this deregulation have not just lower standard but put life at risk . we can not wait for an accident or tragedy to spur we into action . we must be proactive , not reactive . we need legislation that reflect the pace of modern life and the demand of today ' s safety standard . we can not fall behind . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . do he agree that the safety of user and the experience of know that an officially license taxi driver have be thoroughly vet be something that many people take for grant , and that urgent change must take place to ensure that vetting be as stringent as check for insurance and a clean licence ? I agree . we be talk about passenger safety . if somehow we could set aside the issue of safety — I believe we can not — there be other grave consequence of the legislation . it be undermine the livelihood of our taxi driver . driver operate under cross - border licence often lack the local knowledge necessary to provide the level of service that passenger expect . rise — I will carry on with this bit of my speech . this situation erode trust in industry at a time when we should champion local business . instead , we be create obstacle for they . how can I or anyone in this Chamber look our local taxi driver in the eye and tell they that we be truly on their side ? right now , I can not , but by address these issue head on , we can change that narrative . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that the Deregulation Act 2015 need to be repeal ? it be deeply damaging in a place like York , where we have a tourism industry , so we need it to be repeal . I agree — that be part of what I be talk about . we want to support our local taxi driver . rise — I be go to make some progress . I have hear first - hand account from Harlow ' s taxi driver . will the Minister commit to take action ? will he consider reform the law to introduce national minimum standard , empower council to enforce regulation across border and ensure that private hire journey either start or finish within the licensed area ? these step be critical not just to restore fairness in the industry but to safeguard the public . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate , which be so important not only for taxi driver but for safety , particularly for the safety of woman and girl at the end of the night , when too often thing happen . do he agree that deregulation have lead to a decrease in their safety — especially for council such as Milton Keynes , a white ribbon city — and that the white ribbon should be part of the taxi licensing regime ? my hon . friend be right to say that different authority have different standard . one issue be not be license in the authority where that taxi operate . I thank my hon . friend for allow so many intervention and for secure this important debate . taxi driver in my constituency and elsewhere in West Yorkshire really suffer during the covid pandemic . be it not the case that the current regulatory framework for cross - border licensing be enable some of the big operator to rip off hard - work taxi driver by make sure that they do not get the income that they need and deserve , especially after covid ? my hon . friend be right ; covid hit tax driver in my constituency very hard , and we should do what we can to support they . repeal some of the legislation would help to do that . I be on my final paragraph , you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be not just about needless red tape but — will my hon . friend give way ? no , I be go to finish . this be about essential regulation that protect life and livelihood . the hard - work taxi driver , on whom so many of we depend , deserve a level playing field . above all , passenger deserve to know that when they step into a taxi , they be safe . I urge the Minister to consider these proposal so that we can create a safe , fair and more consistent taxi trade for all . I do not know about you , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I feel a Westminster Hall debate may be come soon . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) for secure this debate . the taxi and private hire vehicle — or PHV — sector provide a vital service to our community . whether that be take elderly people to their hospital appointment or make sure that child get their education , every day our hard - work taxi and PHV driver show up and deliver an excellent service . the benefit of have a thriving taxi and PHV sector should not be underestimate . these service play a crucial role in our leisure and tourism industry , take passenger to and from airport and railway station , and in our night - time economy , make sure that everyone — particularly young woman and girl — can get home safely after a night out when other mode of transport might not be available . that be why I be so pleased to see this great industry be debate in the House tonight . I be sure that member will recognise and applaud the work of our taxi and PHV driver and operator . turn to my hon . friend ' s point about the Deregulation Act 2015 , I would like to take this opportunity to share what I have learn about this issue since I become the Minister with responsibility for local transport . the 2015 Act do not enable phv to work anywhere ; phv and taxi have always be able to fulfil booking anywhere . evidence submit to the Transport Committee in 2011 show that out - of - area work be an issue long before the Act . the Act enable the subcontracting of booking to operator license by other authority , as be already allow under the legislation that apply in London . that be introduce to enable an operator to more easily meet customer request . I must declare an interest as the son of a long - stand taxi driver . do the Minister agree that taxi driver be , as they prove in covid , key worker and key to our economy , and furthermore , that in recent year their business cost , specifically their insurance cost , have rise to a prohibitively high level ? will he undertake to investigate the root cause of those rise business cost , which be stifle individual taxi driver from maintain their business ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I agree that our taxi trade play a vital role during the covid pandemic . I will , of course , take his comment away with I . rather than decline or cancel a booking , if an operator do not have a driver and vehicle available , the ability to subcontract to another operator , often within the same company , mean passenger would be well serve , as they would not have to find an alternative . the operator could do that for they . end the subcontracting of booking to operator license by another authority would not stop out - of - area work . under the current legislation , it would remain possible for a PHV or a taxi license by any licensing authority to carry passenger anywhere . if subcontracting be ban again , and ban in London for the first time , operator would be able to choose to license with a single authority or to have regional hub and direct all booking through those . I turn now to cross - border hiring or out - of - area working , which I believe more accurately reflect the real issue . the difference — I hope we can all accept this — be that people naturally travel across local authority border , and that some flexibility in the licensing system be beneficial to both passenger and the sector . out - of - area work be the practice whereby the PHV driver license with one authority but intend to work predominantly or exclusively in other area . phv provide a wide range of service , such as home - to - school transport , executive hire and other specialised service . we need to ensure that our regulation of the sector provide the necessary flexibility , while ensure that local authority have the tool they need to deliver on their objective for the industry . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way . he will not necessarily be aware — I would not expect he to be , nor the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , whom I congratulate on secure the debate — that as a Transport Minister , I commission a major piece of work on taxi licensing . the report be conduct by Professor Mohammed Abdel - Haq and all its recommendation be accept by the then Government . they be focus on safety , and the relationship between the protection of passenger and licensing . I invite the Minister to take a look at that report . it be not partisan and I be sure there be much in it that might inform the debate and service some of the requirement that have be so admirably cite by the hon . member for Harlow . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I will certainly take a look at the report . I understand that there be concern about authority ’ ability to carry out effective enforcement in their area , especially against driver and vehicle that they have not license . we be consider numerous option to address that , but I would also urge caution . certain option could have negative consequence , both for the sector and for passenger . restrict operation could reduce the availability of service , increase fare and waiting time for passenger , and bring more dead mile for driver . I be sure the last thing any of we would want to do be to drive member of the public into the car of those who be unlicensed and unvette , wait at the roadside or offering ride on social medium . we also need to consider the context within which we be work . in England , there be 263 licensing authority . a high number of authority be , in some case , responsible for license a very small number of driver and vehicle which serve a small area . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way ; I mean to make some progress . there be a balance to be strike here and the Government be commit to work with all stakeholder to get it right . Most if not all member will , like I , have more than one licensing authority in their constituency . our constituent do not live their life within the boundary of a local authority area . their life will take they across border frequently . they may live in one area , work in another and socialise in a third , but they might still prefer to use their try , test and trust local operator . it be therefore important for whatever action the Government take to be examine in detail , so that all the possible benefit and consequence be fully understand . our taxi and PHV industry be , on the whole , very well regulate in term of safety . we be all too aware of failing in the past and their awful consequence for the most vulnerable in society , and that can not and must not ever happen again . since those failing be identify , much have change . anyone who wish to become a driver must be consider fit and proper to do so before any licence be grant . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) for his contribution ; he have be a passionate and effective campaigner on this issue for many year . I be aware of the report , and I be happy to meet he to discuss it in more detail . all authority in England now require driver to undergo enhance DBS check as part of the " fit and proper " assessment . a national database must be use to record all instance in which a driver ' s licence be refuse , revoke or suspend on safeguarding , road safety or unlawful discrimination ground . in short , regardless of where in the country a driver be license , passenger can feel reassure that that driver have undergo extensive vetting . overall , our regulation be increasingly effective , but it be far from perfect , and a conversation still need to be have about how we can ensure consistent standard for passenger across the country , and how we can put their safety at the heart of the sector . after all , some legislation hark back to the day when a taxi be a horse - draw carriage . some solution may create more problem than they solve , which be why I need member ' support . I ask they to work with the local authority in their constituency to ensure that authority be use their exist power appropriately . safety must always come first , but put up unnecessary , costly barrier to obtain a licence , or make those who want to obtain a licence for where they intend to work wait month before they can start to earn a living to support themselves and their family , help no one . overwhelmingly , those in the sector and those who seek to enter it want to do the right thing , and they need to be help to do just that . we will continue to help authority to make the good possible use of their exist power . that must include authority work together across boundary in co - authorisation agreement , so that one authority ' s enforcement officer can take action against driver and vehicle license by the other authority . they can work with their local police force in joint enforcement operation , or use the community safety accreditation scheme to equip their enforcement officer with target power — such as the power to pull over taxi and phv at the roadside — so that they can do their job more effectively . out - of - area work be not , should not and need not be the norm , but we need licensing authority to ask themselves if they be do what be good for passenger . just as we be ask local authority to see what they can do , we be look at what we can do to help the well regulation of the sector . a range of option be be consider , and I welcome the debate and the idea of my parliamentary colleague . I hope that we can work together to find a solution and continue to support a successful taxi and PHV trade , one that be safe , accessible and affordable , and one that continue to serve the wide range of need of our diverse community . question put and agree to . House adjourn .