Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — UK Soft Power what step he be take to help increase the UK ' s soft power . as these be the first departmental question since the appointment of the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , I welcome the shadow Front - Bench team to their place . alongside the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , the Foreign Secretary be establish a new soft power council to advise Government and shape a new strategy to increase UK soft power and enhance it to deliver our foreign policy objective . promote all our soft power asset , include the British Council , the BBC World Service , scholarship and value , be crucial if we be to generate growth , security and global impact for the UK . the Government ' s commitment to UK soft power be highlight by the Chancellor ' s additional funding for the BBC World Service in the recent Budget . last week , I meet Moldovan MPs , who be on the frontline of russian aggression . they really value the British Council ' s presence , but it have to close owe to funding cut . do the Minister agree that it would be detrimental to Britain ' s place on the world stage if the British Council be force to close more office , particularly where british value of freedom and democracy be need most ? the Foreign Secretary have make it clear that the UK be commit to support Moldova ' s democratic choice to pursue a path of freedom , independence and european integration . the fcdo provide £ 511 million in grant in aid funding for the 2022 to 2025 spending review period . in an increasingly digital age , the British Council ' s impact should be judge by operational , rather than physical , presence . the council retain a physical presence in over 100 country . those in other country still access cultural engagement and teaching activity online . let ' s take a new member of the back Benches : Andrew Mitchell , on his return . may I wish the new shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , every success in her role ? may I also wish the Minister and the entire Government foreign affair team courage and wisdom as they deal with a world more dangerous than at any time in our life ? when it come to soft power and development , I remind they of the importance of the word well articulate by former US Defence Secretary Mattis : " if you cut development spend , you have to order more ammunition . " I pay tribute to the right hon . member ' s long commitment to these issue . I return last week from Pakistan where I be first deploy when he be the Secretary of State for International Development , so I know well his commitment to the issue over a long period . I agree with the sentiment of the right hon . member ' s question . the aid budget be incredibly important and make a significant contribution to our national security right across the world . we continue to work hard to ensure that our aid budget be fit for purpose and do the job it need to do on behalf of the UK right across the world . I call a new member of the Front Bench : the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . whether it be the finding of the election monitor in Georgia , interference in the recent election in Moldova , the illegal invasion of Ukraine , or the chill feel from the Baltics to Bucharest , Europe today be a much more contested space . this be the moment to pin our colour to the mast and be much more active in support those with Euro - atlantic aspiration . how will the Minister build on the effort of the last government and use our considerable soft power to be much more proactive ? we continue to engage heavily on those issue — the Foreign Secretary be in Moldova last week . we be committed to enhance the UK ' s soft power after a period of decline , and that be why the Foreign Secretary will be launch the soft power council with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport in the come week . israeli Settler Violence : sanction what assessment he have make of the potential merit of sanction violent illegal israeli settler . whether he plan to extend exist sanction in response to settler violence in the west bank to israeli Ministers . palestinian community have suffer horrific violence at the hand of israeli settler . in October , the Government sanction three outpost and four entity link to violence in the west bank . I will not speculate about future sanction designation — do so would only reduce their impact — but we continue to explore all option to take tough action . settlement expansion in the occupied Palestinian Territories remain one of the big barrier to peace in the middle east . in October the Foreign Secretary say : " as long as violent extremist remain unaccountable , the UK and the international community will continue to act . " will he commit today to consider sanction against the extremist Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich of the israeli Government ? I have be very clear in office . in October , I target the Amana settler group , which operate as a commercial construction company , and I be pleased that the US follow we in those sanction just last week . I be also concerned about a religious school promote violence against Jews , and I sanction it . a non - governmental organisation provide volunteer for illegal outpost , and I sanction it . of course we continue to keep sanction policy under consideration . we be very concerned by the violence , by the expansion , and by the rhetoric that we be hear from member of the israeli Government . I listen carefully to my right hon . friend ' s answer . he say that he will not speculate on future sanction , but the two israeli Ministers name be encourage settler violence and have call for the annexation of the west bank by Israel . do my right hon . friend accept that , even if he will not talk about further sanction today , he can recognise that the threat of annexation be real , and that until we come out clearly in support of an independent palestinian state , the settler will continue their violence in the belief that they will eventually achieve the annexation that they want ? I commend my hon . friend for stand up on those issue . let I be absolutely clear : annexation would be illegal and we would stand opposed to it . I make that fundamentally clear . he should be assure that we will continue to speak out both against illegal violence against settler and against settler expansion . international law be vital for we to build a platform for a more secure and peaceful world . do the Government recognise and support the International Criminal Court ' s jurisdiction , and will they co - operate fully with the Court to ensure that it can carry out its work without obstruction ? yes , 100 % . we come to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I will also ask my right hon . friend about Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , and perhaps if I ask in a different way , we might get an answer . Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton tell we that before the last general election , the Foreign Office be work up potential sanction against those two most controversial and infamous settler and Ministers . I appreciate that sanction be keep under review , but be my right hon . friend in a position to tell we when a decision might be make , or if one have already be make , about those Ministers ? I think the previous Foreign Secretary be wrong to talk about sanction under consideration — particularly to talk about sanction that he say be under consideration but then do not implement . I will not get draw on sanction policy at the Dispatch Box , but I be pleased that my right hon . friend be raise issue of such importance . anyone look can see the strength of feeling in the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the comment last week by Finance Minister Smotrich advocate the annexation of the west bank , together with the continue devastation in northern Gaza , have reinforce the idea that element of the Israeli Cabinet have no interest in a two - state solution . there be now a real and imminent risk that the extremist in the Israeli Cabinet will succeed in annex palestinian territory before any negotiation can take place . in the light of that , do the Foreign Secretary agree that now be the time to recognise Palestine ? yesterday at the G7 meeting in Rome , Foreign Ministers discuss that very issue . we be united — all of we — in condemn any suggestion of annexation . we would stand against it . Official Development Assistance if he will increase the amount and proportion of official development assistance allocate to humanitarian project . the Government be determined to rebuild the UK ' s reputation on international development . we have announce a doubling of support for people hit by the humanitarian emergency in Sudan , as well as provide support for people in Gaza , in Lebanon and in other crisis situation . the Government ' s insistence on continue to implement the Tories ' deep and damaging cut to the aid budget and unprecedented level of ODA spend on in - donor refugee cost be result in reduction , pause and cancellation of overseas ODA project . indicate dissent . I see that the Minister be shake her head ; I look forward to her response . do she recognise that the UK Government can not say they be back on the global stage while these Boris Johnson - inspire policy continue to cut deep into our development policy ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that our programme budget for the fcdo in 2025 - 26 will actually be at its high level in recent year . we be able to deliver that because this government be take action on the issue that the previous Government do not tackle , in particular the in - donor refugee cost that have eat into that budget . we just see gimmick ; we do not see action . instead , the new Government be take action . the humanitarian crisis in Sudan be horrific , and it be clear that rape be be use as a weapon of war . recent datum from M é decin Sans Fronti è res highlight that 90 % of sexual violence survivor in a hospital in Chad be abuse by armed perpetrator , and 50 % be attack in their home . this be happen in 2024 . can the Foreign Secretary provide detail on how the UK ' s recent pledge on humanitarian aid for Sudan and the region be be use to support survivor of sexual and gender - base violence ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that incredibly concern situation . the UK have be determine to do all that it can , particularly in relation to conflict - relate sexual violence . in October 2024 , it be the UK that lead move to secure the renewal of the mandate of the fact - find mission at the United Nations Human Rights Council . as be just mention , we recently double humanitarian aid , and the Foreign Secretary also lead effort at the UN Security Council to take action on the humanitarian emergency in Sudan . I welcome the shadow Minister . the Government appear to be in a complete tailspin over whether they will release the cost that will fall to the british taxpayer as a result of the rush deal to give away the British Chagos island . give the report trip to Mauritius by the special envoy , Jonathan Powell , can the Minister at least confirm today which budget the cost will come from , include whether they intend to use the aid budget ? will she tell the House how much it will cost each year and in total , and if the british Chagossians will actually have a genuine say ? would it not make more sense to keep these strategically important island under the Crown , rather than the secretive deal negotiate ? no deal be well than a bad deal . my understanding be that there be actually 10 round of negotiation under the Conservatives , but we do not see the UK reach the necessary agreement . this be a frankly bizarre argument come from the opposition . all the detail of the situation be in the public domain , and quite rightly so . this be part of the UK ensure that we follow international law . release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah what recent progress he have make on help to secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah . we be commit to secure consular access and the release of Mr el - Fattah . we continue to raise Mr el - Fattah ' s case at the high level with the egyptian Government . the Prime Minister raise this with President Sisi on 8 August , and I last raise it with the egyptian Foreign Minister yesterday . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his answer . Alaa Abd el - Fattah ' s mother , Laila Soueif , be in the Gallery today on the 58th day of her hunger strike in protest at the continued imprisonment of her son , a british citizen , whose prison sentence in Egypt end in September . I be sure that the Foreign Secretary feel the same as I and understand that Laila want to know that her Government be do everything they can to bring her son home . will the Foreign Secretary guarantee that the UK Government will put a hold on any new economic or financial partnership with Egypt unless and until british national Alaa Abd el - Fattah be free ? I look forward to meet Mr el - Fattah ' s mother later on today . I reassure my hon . friend personally that I share his determination and resolve to see Alaa reunite with his family , and I think their love and dedication to he be obvious to many parliamentarian whom they have meet and campaign with . my hon . friend will understand that with the terrible situation in Gaza , it be important that this Government continue to speak to our egyptian friend , who obviously have real proximity to Gaza . I understand the strength of feeling , and that be why the Prime Minister have raise this and I have raise this on successive occasion . Alaa be a dual national , and we will continue to lobby on his behalf . I fully support the call for Mr el - Fattah ' s release , but in the same area , Ryan Cornelius have spend 16 year illegally hold by the United Arab Emirates , much of it in solitary confinement . the Secretary of State say that he will pursue these case rigorously , but when he go to the UAE recently , he do not raise the case of Ryan Cornelius . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that the situation of Ryan Cornelius have be raise with the UAE , and official continue to provide consular access to Mr Cornelius and Mr Ridley and be in contact with their family at this time . it be a serious case ; we be absolutely aware of it , and the UAE know that we be very concerned . I completely understand and appreciate what the Foreign Secretary have say about maintain a relationship with Egypt because of the issue in Gaza , but the reality be that Mr el - Fattah ' s family have suffer enough , and President Sisi will move only if there be an economic threat . therefore , after the Foreign Secretary meet the family tomorrow , can I ask he to contact the President ' s office to make absolutely clear that our economic relationship will suffer unless this british citizen be release ? the right hon . Gentleman should be reassure that I speak to the egyptian Foreign Minister yesterday and say to he that I be meet Mrs el - Fattah today . I urge he to look at what parliamentarian be say about this case , which be of huge concern , and press he to do more . we have continue to do that with the Egyptians . it be obviously sensitive because of the situation in Gaza , but I do not think the Egyptians be in any doubt about how seriously this case be take by the british system , the Government and this Parliament . the all - party parliamentary group on arbitrary detention and hostage affair have be hear evidence from UK national who be be , or have be , detain . we be privileged to hear from Alaa ' s mother just this morning . an oft - repeat concern be that if a UK national find themselves in that awful situation , they be essentially on their own compare with other national . do the Minister recognise that depiction , and if he do not , what can he point to as a unique advantage of have a british passport for someone who find themselves arbitrarily detain ? I recognise that the hon . Gentleman have get some problem with have a british passport , but I have no such problem . I be proud to be a citizen of this great country , and we have some outstanding diplomat and official in the fcdo . of course , we recognise in opposition that there be issue in this area , which be why we have say that we will introduce a special representative to work with hostage family . Alaa ' s friend and family , whom I have the privilege of represent as my constituent , just want their brother , uncle and son home safe . previously , the Foreign Secretary — who have work hard on this issue and , as he say , have raise it with the Egyptians — have talk about what we could do if the Egyptians will not restore consular access . they still have not do that , so could the Foreign Secretary update we ? I know this House speak as one in stand and demand that Alaa be free and able to come home to his family for this Christmas , but what more can and will the Foreign Secretary do if the Egyptians will not restore consular access for the family ? my hon . friend have campaign diligently on the family ' s behalf . she will know that the Egyptians do not accept Mr el - Fattah ' s dual nationality — that be an issue between we — and it be for that reason that they deny consular access . currently , access be through Mr el - Fattah ' s lawyer . I be urge the Egyptians to understand that he get his citizenship in the usual way , just like other member of his family . there be no conspiracy on the part of the state in the way that Mr el - Fattah get that citizenship , and I continue to press they on that very issue , which would allow he to have the consular access that he deserve . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer and commend the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) for raise the matter , but it be not the only case : the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) refer to another case , and I would add Jimmy Lai as a third . the UK and british passport must mean something . with that in mind , be it not time to set aside a specific section in the fcdo that look at these case and be task with get our british citizen back home to this United Kingdom ? as the hon . gentleman mention Jimmy Lai , let I say once again that we call on the Hong Kong authority to release immediately british national Jimmy Lai , who be a significant priority for this Government . that be why the Prime Minister raise the matter with the President of China last week and I raise it with the Foreign Minister of China . the hon . Gentleman be right : this do need a close look by the new Government . we be just over four month old , we be look at it and we will come forward with proposal shortly . hostage in Gaza what diplomatic step he be take with his international counterpart to help secure the release of hostage hold by Hamas in Gaza . ensure the safe release of all hostage , include british national Emily Damari and three other hostage with strong UK link , remain a top priority for this Government . we support the effort of negotiator and call on the party to return to negotiation . we continue to work alongside ally and partner in the region towards secure hostage release . negotiation remain the good chance to get hostage , cruelly detain by Hamas , home to their love one . I relay these point to the israeli deputy Foreign Minister yesterday . the horror endure by the 97 Israelis and foreign national hold hostage by Hamas terrorist in Gaza for over 13 month be unthinkable . give that the effort to secure their release have not yet be successful , what further step be the United Kingdom take to bring home Emily Damari , a 28 - year - old british citizen , and the rest of the captive ? I be sure that the whole House will join I in say to those family that we , as a House and a Government , will do absolutely everything we can . the horror of be a hostage family be unbearable , and we have they in our mind each and every day . we be disappointed that talk to secure hostage release appear to have stall for the moment . we be urge all party to return to the table . a deal remain the good prospect and we hope to work with our ally to see that come through . on Friday , on account of a negative vote cast by a permanent member , the Security Council fail to adopt a text put forward by its 10 elect member call for an immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza and demand the release of all hostage . that be extremely disappointing , as it condemn thousand of people in the middle east to ongoing conflict and move no far forward to secure the release of the hostage hold by Hamas in Gaza , although I and many of my constituent welcome the fact that the UK vote for that resolution . what will the Minister ' s next step be in achieve great global agreement on secure peace , a ceasefire and the release of the hostage ? this Government will continue to do everything we can to press for a ceasefire , the release of all hostage and a reduction in violence in the middle east . the Foreign Secretary discuss these matter in the G7 and I discuss they with my israeli counterpart yesterday , and we will continue to take all step across a wide range of different conversation to try to advance the ceasefire that we so desperately need . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . last week , I speak with Mandy Damari . the Minister have mention Emily , and I know the Foreign Secretary and his team have be in touch with the family as well . she and many other hostage family be go through the most unimaginable suffering , so can the Minister , on behalf of the Foreign Secretary , confirm whether any aid organisation have have humanitarian access to the hostage , and if not , what pressure be be exert on those agency ? clearly , welfare concern be paramount , but these poor family be also suffer unimaginable horror and our aid budget need to be spend in the right way , so can the Minister tell we what work be be undertake ? regrettably , no organisation have have access to the hostage . we continue to call for access for the International Committee of the Red Cross and any other appropriate non - governmental organisation in the usual way . let we be clear : Hamas hold these hostage , and they be behave abominably and outwith any international norm . they be not abide by any convention that we could think of . we will continue to press they to ensure that there be the require access to british national , but it be regrettable for the whole House that we be in this position . EU Security and Defence Co - operation what recent discussion he have have with his EU counterpart on security and defence co - operation . the Foreign Secretary attend the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 14 October . in the margin , he agree with Josep Borrell , the EU High Representative for foreign affair , to work towards a security partnership and commit to six - monthly foreign policy dialogue , start in early 2025 . yesterday , I meet Secretary - General Sannino of the European External Action Service to discuss , alongside ministerial colleague , some of our vital share interest , include Ukraine , hybrid threat and the western Balkans . President - elect Trump ' s confirmation of tariff on Canada , one of the US ' s close ally , raise serious concern about his willingness to honour the US - UK special relationship . if that be the future of US relation with its close partner , do the Minister agree that close co - operation with the EU on defence and trade be now urgently need , include access to the european custom union and the defence pact with the EU , go beyond the recent agreement with Germany ? we have a thriving trading and investment relationship with the United States , with more than 1 million british citizen work for US firm , and vice versa . we look forward to work with President - elect Trump in office , include on his policy priority and to improve our trading relation . our need to work together in Europe on security issue be clear to all member , whether that be the threat from Russia , the war in Ukraine , hybrid threat , the situation in Moldova or the situation in the western Balkans , and that be exactly what we be get on with and do . I very much welcome the recent announcement of the UK - Germany bilateral defence agreement , which be sign at record - break pace by the new Government at Trinity House last month . it will bolster close work with Europe ' s large economy on wide defence and security matter at a time of increase russian aggression across Europe . with that in mind , can the Minister therefore explain to the House how the Trinity House agreement fit into wide discussion with EU and NATO counterpart around defence and security ? I thank my hon . friend for his remark on that important treaty work ; I know he take a keen interest in matter relate to UK - german relation . we continue to engage with german colleague from across the spectrum . we be keen to get this treaty agree as soon as possible . for I , it naturally fit with our NATO membership and the new enhance dialogue we have with the EU on security and defence matter . Middle East : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in the middle east . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in the middle east . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be catastrophic . the UK ' s recent vote for the UN Security Council resolution on Gaza have already be mention . it call for a huge scale - up in aid across Gaza . we need that aid access , and restriction on aid be unacceptable . the International Development Committee hear testimony from Nizam Mamode , a surgeon who have recently return from the Nasser hospital in Gaza . he describe israeli drone pick off injure child after bombing . his account echo an October New York Times report , which cite 44 doctor , nurse and paramedic who witness numerous case of pre - pubescent child be shoot in the head or chest during the ongoing conflict in Gaza . what step be the Government take to prevent a genocide in Gaza ? we have hear a number of deeply concern report about development in Gaza . I know that have also be the case for the Select Committee , as my hon . friend mention . the UK Government ' s position could not be clear : international law , include international humanitarian law , must be hold to , and that cover in particular the operation of healthcare worker . we pay tribute to they operate in such difficult circumstance . as we have be hear , the situation in Gaza — especially northern Gaza — be dire , with the UN anticipate that this year up to 60 , 000 child under the age of five could be face acute malnutrition . at the same time , the truck enter Gaza have reduce by 63 % since October 2023 . I welcome the lead role that the Government be take in provide vital humanitarian aid for Gaza , but do the Minister agree that the ongoing israeli restriction on the flow of essential aid be completely unacceptable and should be lift immediately ? yes . we be see a disturbing impact from those restriction ; we have see it in the famine assessment and in the level of malnutrition and ill health now prevalent in Gaza . winter be now upon we , make the situation even bad . the restriction on aid be unacceptable . they must be lift immediately . when the Foreign Secretary be in Baku recently for COP29 , do he discuss with his interlocutor across the region the extent to which the global finance goal would impact on humanitarian assistance in the middle east ? yes , the Foreign Secretary do discuss those matter , include directly with Mia Mottley , the Premier of Barbados , who have be lead many of the small island develop state on these issue . certainly , the UK be determined to play its part on humanitarian issue as well as globally on climate issue . that be so important for our own country as well as for the rest of the world . some week ago , I ask the Foreign Secretary about get assurance that child receive polio vaccination would not be kill after receive they . since then , thousand of child have be kill in northern Gaza . give the ICC ' s recent ruling about war crime , the british public no doubt want to know why the Government be shy away from their legal and moral obligation to ban all arm and all trade . the UK Government have be determine to use every mechanism to advance international humanitarian law . that include within the UN Security Council , as we just discuss , but we have also be take action at every bilateral and multilateral opportunity , include on polio , where the UK lead effort to get vaccination go in the first place . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . in October , the israeli Knesset pass two law relate to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency : the law for cessation of UNRWA activity in the state of Israel ; and the law for cessation of UNRWA activity . they will take effect on 28 January , and the consequence will be prevent aid distribution in Gaza and the prevention of primary care , education and refuse collection in the west bank . last week , my Committee be in Palestine and Jordan . there be huge concern that if that legislation take effect , it will breach numerous international law and have a catastrophic effect on the humanitarian and security situation in the region . what conversation have Ministers have with their israeli counterpart to prevent that implementation , and what be they do with the international community to protect a UN organisation ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that and to her Committee for its work on this important issue . the UK Government have be absolutely clear that UNRWA be the only agency that can deliver aid at the scale and depth require in the middle of this humanitarian emergency . my hon . Friend ask about representation be make by the UK Government . I have make those representation myself , include at the UN General Assembly . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , make those representation yesterday . the Foreign Secretary have make they a number of time , include to his israeli counterpart . it be clear that the restriction on the operation of UNRWA must not be implement by the israeli Government . the humanitarian situation in the middle east be make bad by arm supply from within and beyond the region . the Liberal Democrats have a long - stand policy that the UK Government should not be export arm to Israel or to the Occupied Palestinian Territories give that they be refer to in the fcdo ' s last human right report . will the fcdo extend the number of arm export licence deny to Israel by the UK ? I gently encourage the hon . member to look at the action take by the UK Government some week ago to suspend a number of arm licence . we believe that be important because of the risk towards break international humanitarian law . the UK Government take their responsibility in that regard very seriously indeed . the root cause of so much of the terrible humanitarian suffering in the middle east today be the regime in Tehran , fuel the Houthis , Hamas and Hezbollah and brutally repress its own people while bail out Putin ' s war machine , and even plot to assassinate individual base in the UK . beyond sanction with Iran — which we all support and successive government have put in place over the year — can the Minister tell we , on behalf of the Foreign Secretary , what exactly be the comprehensive plan to start deal with this repressive regime that be cause so much brutality across the middle east ? we be deeply concerned about the destabilising impact of the iranian regime within the region and beyond . the right hon . Lady mention a number of case where we can see that impact clearly . I would also underline that the truly devastating humanitarian crisis in Yemen be very much connect to iranian backing of the Houthis . we have repeatedly raise our concern about this bilaterally and multilaterally . we be clear that we need a strong voice as a UK Government on these matter , and that be exactly what we be deliver . ECHO 2 Programme what recent step his Department have take to deliver the ECHO 2 programme . the ECHO 2 telephone contract for telephone in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be 79 % complete , but be on track for completion in January 2025 . minister and official have be work day and night to fix the procurement mistake of the previous Government . the ECHO 2 programme be crucial to deliver the new global communication network for the fcdo . the Minister mention that it be due for completion in January 2025 , but will it remain within budget ? what be the plan to ensure that it deliver its full technical and financial benefit ? do the Minister think that any additional support or adjustment will be need to ensure its delivery ? with increase scrutiny and hard - work Ministers and official , we will reach all target . I will write to the hon . gentleman with more detail on his specific question . leadership on Climate Change what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to demonstrate leadership on climate change . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to demonstrate leadership on climate change . I be proud to join Ministers across Government to show UK leadership on the climate and nature crisis at COP29 . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister announce our ambitious 2035 emission reduction target , and I reaffirm our commitment to the global south through £ 11 . 6 billion in climate finance . at COP29 , under a Labour Government , the UK reclaim its position as a global leader on climate action . we recognise now that our security and prosperity hinge on address the crisis . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome the progress make on climate finance , while acknowledge that there be much more to do to keep we on track on that road map and to keep 1 . 5 ° alive ? it be important that our Prime Minister be the only G7 Prime Minister to attend COP . my hon . friend will recall that , last year , the Prime Minister at the time do not attend . it be hugely important that we reach the £ 300 billion for climate finance , which will help the global south get to clean energy . we hope that our global clean power alliance will be able to work with they , as they now have the money to do it . [ Official Report , 22 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) the world ' s forest be the lung of the earth , but we be lose they at an alarming rate . an area the size of Azerbaijan , where COP29 be host , be destroy every year . will the Foreign Secretary explain what the Government be do to preserve the world ' s forest and to support those who protect they ? I be very pleased to speak at COP on the issue of forest and to join inspirational indigenous leader on that subject . that be why we find £ 3 billion for nature , of which £ 1 . 5 billion be dedicate to work on forest . Georgia Elections whether he have make representation to his counterpart in Georgia on report irregularity in parliamentary election hold in that country on 26 October 2024 . ahead of the election on 11 October , I express my concern directly to Foreign Minister Darchiashvili about pressure on civil society and stigmatisation of minority ahead of the parliamentary election . follow the election , I publicly express support for the preliminary finding of the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe in relation to the election . I call on the georgian authority to investigate all irregularity and reverse their decline commitment to an inclusive and open democracy . I thank the Minister for his action . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to the work I have do in the past with democratic activist in Georgia . those activist be terrified that Georgia be now at a turning point . will the Minister join I in call for new election under international oversight and an end to the attack on civil society group , especially the heroic LGBT group who be under attack there ? if those thing do not take place , will the Government keep open the option of sanction on the individual who be responsible for democratic backsliding in Georgia ? I recognise my hon . friend ' s long - stand interest in this issue and his strong view on it . let I be clear . on 28 October , his Majesty ' s ambassador to Georgia call on the Central Election Commission to transparently investigate all allege incidence of election fraud . follow the session of the new Parliament , the embassy again reiterate our concern about election violation and the need for independent investigation . he be absolutely right that the right to peaceful protest and a free civil society be a key attribute of any modern european democracy and must be respect . we will continue to make that clear . I first pay tribute to the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) , whose focus on Georgia — not just on free election in Georgia , but on the spread of Putin ' s evil influence across Europe — have be incredibly important . what action be the Minister take to push back on Russia ' s influence in the region and to push back in Russia itself use his budget for the BBC World Service to broadcast in sub - national language inside Russia , so that the people of Russia know what be be do in their name and can understand what Putin be do to they ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point to the important work the BBC World Service do in this area , in particular through its language service . I have in the past meet its fantastic staff who do that important work . it be important that people have access to free , accurate and impartial information , include in their own language . we have be clear about the extent of russian interference in Georgia for a long time and we be clear about russian interference across Europe in democracy . that be why we be work so closely with NATO and EU partner on that very issue . relation with the US what step he plan to take to help strengthen relation with the US . the United States be an indispensable ally and I be committed to the depth and breadth of the UK - US relationship . the Prime Minister and I meet President - elect Trump in September for dinner , which be a good opportunity to get to know each other . we of course continue to work with the current Administration . I be with Tony Blinken just yesterday . defence spending be a key aspect of our relationship with the United States . will the Foreign Secretary be able to tell our american ally the date on which we will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % ? if he can not , what influence will we have on european ally to increase their defence spending ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the issue of defence spending . it have be raise by US president since Eisenhower . he be right that when Donald Trump come to power there be just four european country spend above 2 % . when Labour leave government it be at 2 . 5 % . we be sad that it drop and we be determined to get it back to 2 . 5 % of gdp . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . in the past month , growth be at the heart of my visit to Africa . we agree work on a new global plan in South Africa and a new strategic partnership with Nigeria . during our UN Security Council presidency we have show support for Ukraine 1 , 000 day into the war and press for a last peace in the middle east , and I condemn Russia ' s shameful veto of a resolution on Sudan . finally , throughout COP we have be restore british leadership on climate . since come into office , the Government have suspend arm export licence to Israel ; roll over on the International Criminal Court , with nothing new against Hamas terrorist ; and pour cash into the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , despite concern over a significant number of its staff double - hat with Hamas . many of those thing have be publish in Arabic on the UK Government ' s website . who decide what should be publish in Arabic ? why be they be publish in Arabic ? as they relate to Israel , why be nothing be publish in Hebrew ? the art of diplomacy be speak to foreign leader and foreign nation as good we can in the UK ' s national interest . that do sometimes involve foreign language , which be why , for example , we support the BBC World Service . it be a slightly bizarre question . we can all agree that end human trafficking across the english channel require an approach that be co - ordinated with that of all the country from which people be be traffic . can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that the french Government share our commitment to smash the gang and end these crossing ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that I meet the french Foreign Minister in London just last week , when we discuss these issue and agree to co - ordinate well , and that the Home Secretary be work closely with the new french Interior Minister . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the relationship that the Government be build with China appear to be all give and no take . in order to convince the House that the situation be different , can the Foreign Secretary tell we what have be achieve with regard to advance Britain ' s interest in respect of security , economic practice and human right since his recent visit to China , and what he expect to be achieve during his future visit ? I welcome the right hon . Lady to her place , and also remind she that under the last government there be about seven different China policy and very little be achieve . we have have four and a half month . I be very pleased to be in China discuss issue on which we disagree , on which we agree and on which we challenge China , and I will continue to do that over the come month and year . in the light of that response , can the Foreign Secretary state categorically whether , as part of his conversation with chinese counterpart , the UK Government have explicitly call for the repeal of the national security law in Hong Kong , whether he have specifically call for Jimmy Lai be release , and whether he will ensure that no deal — such as China ' s application for a new embassy — can go ahead until Jimmy Lai be free ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise the situation in Hong Kong , which form a substantial part of our conversation . of course we raise issue relate to Jimmy Lai — as I have say in the House before — and the security law in Hong Kong . there be disagreement between we , and we be very clear about that . the right hon . Lady can be sure that matter involve both our representation in this country and China ' s representation will pass through our system in the usual way without Government interference . it be nearly eight month since an attack by the Israel Defence Forces on a World Central Kitchen convoy kill seven aid worker , include three Britons : James Henderson , John Chapman and James Kirby . do the Foreign Secretary agree that their family deserve to see accountability and justice for their death ? it be very important for I to meet the family of those people a few week ago . the killing of seven World Central Kitchen aid worker , include those british national , in an israeli airstrike on Gaza on 1 April be appalling , and a matter of great concern . we continue to urge the Military Advocate General in Israel to proceed with a proper investigation and inquiry , and to get on with it as quickly as possible . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement that the UK will sanction Russia ' s so - call shadow fleet , but I understand that the UK have not levy a single fine for breach of the exist sanction on Russia ' s oil . will the Foreign Secretary and the Chancellor now take more robust action to ensure that UK sanction be comply with ? I be very pleased to see President Zelensky recognise just yesterday the UK ' s leadership in challenge the shadow fleet . as the hon . Gentleman will know , I have make this part of my personal mission , and it have involve a record number of oil tanker . we be lead the world in sanction the shadow fleet . as the hon . Gentleman say , there be enforcement issue , which be why we have instigate a review . when I meet the ukrainian ambassador to the United Kingdom , General Zaluzhnyi , last month he raise the importance of ensure that ukrainian child and young people who have be force to flee this terrible conflict in their own country receive the support and education that they need , so that they can be the generation that rebuild Ukraine . what conversation have the Foreign Secretary have with the Ukrainian Government and his ministerial colleague to ensure that that happen ? my hon . friend raise a very important issue . a few month ago , I meet ukrainian child who have be take to Russia and who have fortunately be bring back to Ukraine by a non - governmental organisation that we be support . we have increase our fund for that important work , both in Ukraine and in Moldova , where I be last week . the EU have be very clear that it would welcome a new youth mobility scheme with the UK . as the Minister know , that would not be a return to freedom of movement and could be agree separately from the trade and co - operation agreement that the UK sign when we leave the UK . can the Minister tell I , this House and the young people of this country why the Government will not sit down with european ally to agree a new youth mobility scheme ? my colleague in the Cabinet Office , I , the Foreign Secretary and other be engage in a number of conversation with our EU counterpart , but I will not give a run commentary . we will look at EU proposal on a range of issue , but there be no plan for a youth mobility scheme ; neither will we return to freedom of movement . it be vital that we continue to supply Ukraine with aid in the face of russian aggression . be that aid combine with diplomatic effort to bring about a just and last peace , in line with UN convention ? our support be absolute and resolute . I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss these issue far . we will maintain our position . will the Foreign Secretary take every opportunity to impress on the incoming President the importance of the article 5 guarantee , whereby the United States will come to the aid of any NATO country that be attack ? will he impress on President Trump that we will do everything that we can to encourage other NATO ally to contribute more to the cost of defence ? yes , yes , yes and more yes . I thank the right hon . gentleman for highlight this very important issue . the NATO alliance be the strong and good alliance that the modern world have see , and the UK will continue to impress that point on anyone who will listen . give the upcoming audit into the UK ' s relationship with China , how do the Foreign Secretary plan to strike a balance between economic growth and grow security concern about China ' s dominance in critical national infrastructure and Chinese - make iot module ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . on come into government , it be important that we conduct a China audit right across Whitehall to look at the range of relationship . underpin that be the three cs : we will co - operate with China where we can , we will compete with China where we should , and we will challenge China where we must . what conversation do the Foreign Secretary have with the Defence Secretary about the diplomatic implication of scrap key military capability such as HMS Albion and Bulwark , and of the failure to set a timeline for spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending ? the right hon . Gentleman know that I have huge respect for he , but that be a little bit rich , give the drop in defence spending that we see under the last government . the Prime Minister indicate just last week that we will set out our plan in due course . I be pleased that the Defence Secretary , on come to power , launch a strategic defence review . frankly , it should have be do under the last Government . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Iran ' s support for Russia ' s war in Ukraine be a direct threat to Europe ' s security , and can he outline what step he be take to respond ? we be deeply concerned by Iran ' s malign behaviour . the transfer of ballistic missile to Ukraine be escalatory , which be why I sanction Iran Air and the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines . I will continue to speak to the Foreign Minister in Iran about these issue . clearly , we be very concerned about any attempt by Iran to get nuclear capability . Scotland ' s international brand be use to boost our economy throughout the world , sell scottish product and experience and boost our soft power , so can the Foreign Secretary tell we how his Department will be mark St Andrew ' s day on Saturday ? I be delighted to be able to take this question , as one of many scot in the House . we be incredibly proud of brand Scotland , and our Scottish Secretary have be drive that forward and really push the case for Scotland ' s place in the world , work as part of the UK . we will most certainly be celebrate St Andrew ' s day — I certainly will . action for Humanity research conduct in Gaza reveal that 53 % of respondent already receive no humanitarian aid during so - call evacuation , and there be fear that the Knesset ' s vote to sever tie with UNRWA be likely to reduce access to aid even far . the Minister have already refer to the representation that have be make , but what specific immediate action will the Secretary of State undertake to reinforce the UN ' s multilateral framework and the israeli Government ' s obligation under international law to ensure that sufficient aid reach civilian in Gaza ? order . I need to get other colleague in . these be topical question , and they be mean to be short and punchy . we recognise the impact of sometimes repeat displacement on the population , with this happen up to nine time in some case . we have use every opportunity to make clear the essential role of the UN , include UNRWA , in Gaza . do the Minister agree that the ICC ' s decision do nothing to help secure the release of hostage , deliver more aid into Gaza or deliver a sustainable end to the war in the middle east ? as I set out to the House yesterday afternoon , the ICC be the primary method of accountability for war crime , and it should be support across the whole House . our support for the ICC do not limit the action we take in relation to the other issue . we have already talk about hostage this morning and about the vital importance of the ceasefire , and we will continue to — order . I call Alan Strickland . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his leadership in tackle and sanction those aid and abet the illegal invasion of Ukraine , but what more can we do to tackle the wide issue of corruption and kleptocracy that define Putin ' s crony ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he serve in Haringey before take up his place in this House and we have be good friend over many year . he be right to raise this issue . we say that illicit finance would be a priority , and it will be . I hope to make further announcement on the back of the sanction announcement that I make this week . with World Aids day approach , I be sure the whole House will agree on the impact that the Global Fund have have on tackle HIV and AIDS globally . with our replenishment come next year , will Ministers commit to the UK continue to make a significant contribution to the Global Fund ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question and for the leadership that he have show on this issue , along with other across the House . the UK be determined to see successful replenishment for all the health - relate fund , and we have announce with the who just this week that we be definitely go to do that . innovation play a key role in tackle hunger . can the Minister expand on what effort we be take to tackle hunger and how we be support innovator such as Alora , base at Norwich Research Park , which be use revolutionary technology to create the world ' s first ocean agriculture system ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this . we have incredible facility in Norwich work on agricultural innovation , and they be important not only for global food production but for UK farmer . the research be use intensively by our local farmer as well as by other globally . it be ridiculous that Britain should even contemplate take some of the 61 Sri Lankan asylum seeker on Diego Garcia as part of its agreement with Mauritius . there be serious concern in Whitehall that some of those Sri Lankans have criminal record , and there be allegation that some of they may be involve in child abuse . I have raise this with the Home Office to no avail . will Ministers in the Foreign Office make sure that all record be check in Sri Lanka and in Diego Garcia to ensure that no such criminal or abuser be allow into Britain ? the Government inherit a situation in the British Indian Ocean Territory involve Tamil migrant from India and Sri Lanka who have arrive there . we be deliver a solution that protect migrant ' welfare but avoid open a dangerous new migration route . the hon . Gentleman ' s concern regard safeguarding and any other issue be absolutely at the heart of that and be be deal with by Home Office and other ministerial colleague . my right hon . friend will share my concern about the increase number of woman be give death sentence by the iranian authority . what urgent representation will he make to the iranian Government to overturn those death sentence and ensure that woman receive a fair trial ? I can assure my hon . friend that his Majesty ' s ambassador to Iran will continue to raise this appalling issue directly with iranian official in Tehran . furthermore , the UK be instrumental in the adoption of the Iran human right resolution at the UN Third Committee last week . the resolution call on Iran to establish a moratorium on execution and to end reprisal against woman human right defender . the Government have indicate that they would arrest the democratically elect Prime Minister of Israel . do so would contradict an Act of Parliament and breach state and diplomatic immunity . will the Foreign Secretary tell the House whether he believe compliance with the ICC ' s decision set a precedent for future decision of a similar nature ? be he not concerned that he be contradict international norm ? we consider this question at exhaustive length yesterday . I repeat that the shadow Attorney General have write on the question of which element of international law be most properly follow in this case , and the Attorney General be set to respond , although we suspect that this case would go to the court in the usual way . my constituent , the british citizen Jimmy Lai , be in fail health , and I thank the Foreign Secretary and his Department for all their work to uphold his right under international law . can the Foreign Secretary share his assessment of the scale of international support for Jimmy Lai ' s release ? " Massive " be probably the word I would use . his case be be raise in America and across the European Union , and we be raise it too . his trial have begin , and he be now well into his 70 , which be why I have make the case to the Chinese that he should be release . this be become cruel and unusual punishment , frankly . the International Criminal Court have confirm what we have all know for month , which be that the israeli Government , under the leadership of Benjamin Netanyahu , have unleash a concerted campaign of crime against humanity on innocent palestinian civilian . this be no long a question of which side we be on , or of who be right or wrong . it be cold , hard legal fact , and we can not allow it . can the Secretary of State assure we that the Government be consider appropriate action against Netanyahu and Gallant to properly hold they to account ? too long . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) that the UK Government intend to stand by our international obligation in relation to the ICC , and in relation to many other thing , too . after the issuing of the arrest warrant against israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu , can the Foreign Secretary confirm when the Government will impose the scale of sanction on Israel , not just individual , that the Government rightly impose on Russia after the ICC issue an arrest warrant against Putin ? a war crime be a war crime , and an arrest warrant be an arrest warrant . all life be equal , and we must ensure that there can be no accusation of double standard . since the Government take office in July , I hope it have be clear how important question of international law be to we , how soberly we treat these issue and how we ensure that in all matter , include in relation to the ICC case that my hon . friend describe , we follow due process , which be what we intend to do in relation to the ICC . the civil war in Sudan be estimate to have kill around 150 , 000 people and displace 14 million . unicef and the UN World Food Programme say that , unless effort be step up , more than 700 , 000 child be project to suffer acute malnutrition , so can the Minister tell we what step the UK be take as the UN penholder to end this malnutrition and support the Sudanese ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this . the Foreign Secretary recently co - lead a resolution on the protection of civilian in Sudan . unfortunately , despite 14 vote in favour , Russia veto that resolution . we will continue to push on these issue , and we have double our aid to Sudan because of the dreadful crisis there . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . early , my hon . friend the Member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) raise the very serious case of the detention of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , a british passport holder whose family be with we in the Gallery today . in his response , the Foreign Secretary say that my hon . friend have a problem with have a british passport . there be member of the House who have very different view about the constitutional future of this country , be they from Scotland , Ireland or Wales , so will you , Mr Speaker , reassure I and my colleague that regardless of our view about the future , everybody who hold a british passport have the right to be stick up for by their Member of Parliament ? do the Foreign Secretary wish to respond ? I confirm that , of course , everybody with a british passport have the right to representation . I would hope that we be the kind of country that support all sort of people in trouble who be in our country , whatever their background . COP29 with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement about COP29 . may I start by extend my sympathy to all those affect by Storm Bert ? it have be a devastating event for people in different part of our country , particularly in Wales , and my heart go out to the family of those who have lose their life and to all those whose life have be disrupt . with permission , Mr Speaker , I also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to Lord Prescott . he be a fighter for social justice and a champion of the environment . he rightfully have global recognition for his role in negotiate the Kyoto protocol , and he show how politic can change life for the well . I send my deep condolence to Pauline and his family . the UK attend COP29 to fight for our national interest — speed up the clean energy transition in the interest of job , energy security and economic growth , and tackle the climate crisis for today ' s and future generation . in Baku , our message be clear : Britain be back in the business of global climate leadership . we know that the impact of the climate crisis know no border . we have already see the extreme impact we can face here in Britain , and we know that if we do not act those impact will get much bad . that be why , as the Prime Minister say at COP29 , there be no national security without climate security . it be precisely because Britain represent only around 1 % of annual global emission that we have to work with other to ensure the remain 99 % of emission be address to protect the british people . the focus of this COP be on finance for develop country , because the reality be that unless we persuade develop country to go down the path of clean energy development , we can not hope to reduce emission and prevent climate disaster . those country face the triple challenge of need to invest in the clean energy transition , cope with the cost of climate vulnerability and need to develop to take their population out of poverty . at the same time , developed country , include Britain , face extreme pressure on our public finance . the COP talk be always complex , but those circumstance make this set of talk particularly so . I put on record my thank to our outstanding team of civil servant who support I at COP . I be repeatedly strike by the enormous respect they have from so many country around the world . the UK ' s negotiate team be lead by Alison Campbell , who be leave to work with the UN Secretary - General . I want to put on record my special thank to she in help we to reach an agreement . the agreement reach be to provide and mobilise at least $ 300 billion of climate finance by 2035 for develop country . much of that will come from the multilateral development bank , such as the World Bank , which have step up to set a target to substantially increase the climate finance they provide . importantly , for the first time , the agreement reflect a new global landscape , where traditional donor will be join by big emitter such as China to help finance the transition . that be fair and right . the UK will decide what our own contribution will be in the context of our spending review and fiscal situation , and that will come from within the UK aid budget . I can inform the House that , if deliver with the same impact as UK climate finance , the $ 300 billion deal could lead to emission reduction equivalent to more than 15 time the UK ' s annual emission , as well as help to protect up to 1 billion people in develop country from the effect of flood , heatwave and drought . crucially , the agreement will accelerate the global clean energy transition , which offer the prospect of export and economic opportunity here in Britain . let nobody be in any doubt : this agreement be absolutely in our national interest . in other respect , the talk be more disappointing . at COP28 , the world make a historic agreement to transition away from fossil fuel . that agreement stand , but we do not reach agreement this year on how to take the commitment forward , not because the text put forward be too ambitious , but because it be not ambitious enough . in particular , many develop country , include the small island state , feel that the text be inadequate give the scale of the climate emergency . develop country , include Britain , agree with that view . that offer an important lesson . under this government , Britain be part of a global coalition for ambitious climate action that span global north and global south — it be at the global centre ground of climate politic . we will seek to build on the agreement at COP30 next year , in Brazil . at COP29 , the UK also make important announcement on counter deforestation , scale up private finance and nuclear co - operation as part of the clean energy transition . the Prime Minister also announce our nationally determine contribution to reduce emission by at least 81 % by 2035 , compare with 1990 level , follow the advice that we receive from the independent Climate Change Committee . let I be clear : that target be right for Britain — for energy security , good job and growth . on the same day as the announcement , ScottishPower and Siemens announce a £ 1 billion deal to invest in wind manufacturing in Hull . that will boost british manufacturing and support 1 , 300 good job in our industrial heartland . it show what the clean energy mission can do for Britain , and build on the step that the Government have already take , which include : lift the onshore wind ban ; give consent for nearly 2 GW of solar ; set up great british Energy ; deliver a record - break renewable auction ; kick - start our carbon capture and hydrogen industry ; and drive towards cheap , clean heating through our warm home plan . it be in our national interest to use the power of our example to work with other to speed up the clean energy transition globally , just as the Climate Change Act 2008 , which be support by member from across this House , inspire other to follow our lead . that be why at the G20 in Brazil , the Prime Minister launch the global clean power alliance , along with a number of other country , to drive forward the transition . that be just the start of the work that we need to do in the run - up to COP30 to make next year ' s talk a success , because the truth be that despite progress over the last two week , we be halfway through the decisive decade for limit warming to 1 . 5 ° C , and the world be way off - track . other country , such as Brazil , have also announce ambitious ndcs , and in the month ahead , we will continue to push other to go far , fast , on raise ambition , scale up finance , protect nature and forest , and drive forward the clean energy transition . the COP process be tortuous and progress be too slow . however , this Government believe that while multilateralism — in other word , co - operate with other — be hard , it be truly the only way to fight for Britain . those who say that we should disengage from the negotiation and step off the stage would let down our country , deprive we of a voice and leave future generation pay the price . despite all the difficulty , at COP29 , one truth be overwhelmingly clear : the global transition away from fossil fuel and towards clean energy be happen , and it be unstoppable because clean energy be the route to energy security , unstoppable because it be the economic opportunity of our time , and unstoppable because people in Britain and around the world can see that the climate crisis be here , and that unless we act , thing will only get bad . in less than five month , this Government have show that we will seize the opportunity of speed up at home , and have demonstrate climate leadership abroad , in order to deliver energy independence , low bill , good job , economic growth and the security of a stable climate . we be do all we can to keep the british people safe , now and for generation to come . I commend the statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Claire Coutinho . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I echo his comment on Storm Bert and thank the emergency service for all that they have do to help those in need . I start by pass on my personal condolence to the right hon . gentleman on the passing of John Prescott . I know that he want he to lead the Paris accord in 2015 , have admire his work in Kyoto , and I believe that , at the time , he describe John as good at " bash head together " . I hope that , as the Secretary of State ' s opposite number , I can achieve some of that head - bash that he so clearly value in John . in that vein , the Secretary of State have talk a lot about regain global leadership , but I fear that he be stick in 2009 . he may not want to acknowledge this , but for the past 14 year , we have be a global leader . we be the only major economy to have halve carbon emission since 1990 . in that same time , America ' s emission have stay the same and China ' s have triple . however , we have see that country be not persuade just by Britain go far , fast ; they be persuade by prosperity , and by living standard . we account for 1 % of global emission , and I fear that if he continue down the path that he have set out , our country will face hardship , and there will be no point in be world - lead because nobody will want to follow our lead . he would make we a warning , not an example to other . let we start with what the Secretary of State announce at the conference of the party . he have set out a new target of cut our greenhouse gas emission by 81 % by 2035 . however , what we do not hear in his statement be how much this will cost the british people . the independent Climate Change Committee say that that target will require people to eat less meat and dairy , take few flight , and swap their boiler for heat pump and their petrol car for electric vehicle at a pace that will require taxis and mandation . even the Chair of the Select Committee have acknowledge that people will be force to change their life . but the Secretary of State say not to worry , as he will deliver all the saving through energy policy , and those plan will lead to high growth , a cut in bill , job creation and strong national security , but when it come to his plan , none of those thing be true . the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have already say that his climate plan will not lead to growth . the National Energy System Operator ' s report show that his rush for clean power in 2030 will add eye - water cost to our energy system , and that despite those very expensive cost , it would still leave gas pricing the system around 50 % of the time — or it would leave the equivalent of million of home in the dark wait for the wind to blow . I do not think that that be anybody ' s idea of energy or national security . the Secretary of State do not have to take my word for it . the head of offshore wind development at RWE , one of the country ' s large wind developer , have warn that the Secretary of State ' s rush to meet his 2030 target will lead to price spike , with consumer lose out . the chief executive of Octopus have warn about the £ 6 billion in cost that consumer will have to pay , because the right hon . Gentleman want to build renewable without reform the grid . the former head of MI6 have warn the Secretary of State — [ interruption . ] this be worth listen to . he say that from the point of view of national security , the Secretary of State be pursue " a completely crazy energy policy " . the Secretary of State ' s plan to make our energy expensive and unreliable will see job flee to more polluting country , because it be cheap energy and innovation that matter in the race for job . we need only ask China , which dominate clean tech supply chain and be the world ' s large polluter . that be where billion of pound of our taxpayer ' money will be go to pay for his rush transition — from our country , with all the investment that it have make in clean power , to a country still 60 % power by coal . we be talk about low growth , high bill , job lose and even blackout , for more carbon in the atmosphere . that be the opposite of what he have be promise . in Baku , while the Secretary of State be sign we up to these target without talk about what they will do to the life of british people , he be also sign away billion of pound of taxpayer ' money . he sign we up to a $ 300 billion annual climate finance target . I be afraid that it be not credible to say that taxpayer will not have to pay more . they will have to pay more , and they deserve to know how much more . will he tell we today what that new target will mean for british taxpayer ? consider the increase in the target , the public will rightly question why country such as Russia and particularly China , now the world ' s large polluter and second large by historical standard , will not be oblige to pay a penny — I think he try to insist that they would , but it be very clear that they will not be oblige at all to pay in — while Britain , which have invest billion in cut its emission and account for only 1 % of global emission , will have to pay more . will the Secretary of State also set out an assessment of the impact of increase reliance on coal - power chinese import for his 2030 zero carbon plan , and of what that mean for global emission ? the Secretary of State be not be honest with the british public . he promise they £ 300 off their energy bill by 2030 , but just week ago , he whip his Labour mps to vote down that pledge . he take away the winter fuel payment , despite promise that the elderly would be look after under his energy policy , and he now say that he can achieve strong climate target in a way that will require zero cost from the public . this be not a recipe for climate leadership , but a recipe for high bill and lose job , and it will be a disaster for the british public . I just remind those on the front Benches that the reply to a statement should last no long than five minute . oh dear , oh dear ! let I deal with the shadow Secretary of State ' s question , such as they be . let we start with our nationally determine contribution , announce at the conference of the party . it be so interesting that she now oppose it , because the 2035 NDC announce by the Prime Minister be exactly the target that her Government legislate for in 2021 , in the sixth carbon budget , which cover 2035 . she be now oppose the very target that her government put into law , and that she claim , just a few month ago , that she be work towards as Secretary of State . there be a pattern here , Mr Speaker . every week , the right hon . Lady take to Twitter to express her outrage about a policy , ask , " who on earth could support this ? " every week , someone pop up in her reply and say politely , " you do , just a few month back . " it be not the only time that she have do this . last week , she come out against the clean heat market mechanism — another policy that she propose . [ interruption . ] she say not , but I have a statement from she from only eight month ago , in which she say that the clean heat market mechanism would be introduce in April 2025 , which be exactly what this Government be do . the truth be that she will leap on any pass bandwagon , even if it mean trash her record . let I give the shadow Secretary of State a little lesson about opposition . the job of the opposition be to oppose the Government , not to oppose themselves . this be where she have end up : out the window go any commitment to climate action . she be ignore the fact that it be a route to energy security , good job and low bill , ignore the fact that it be back by business , and ignore the fact that this country have an honourable tradition of bipartisan consensus on the issue . I be happy to say that the previous Government propose some ambitious target , and that COP26 be an important milestone for the world . this be not just irresponsible , and not just crass opportunism ; it have help take the conservative party down to its bad election defeat in 200 year , so this approach will not work for she . let I tell the shadow Secretary of State what the clean energy superpower mission mean for Britain . it mean clean up our power system , so that we do not leave the country expose to fossil fuel , as the previous Government do . it mean new job in carbon capture and storage as we decarbonise industry and re - industrialise . it mean energy efficiency in home , mean low bill , warm home and low emission . as for the NESO report that she talk about , I know that it be deeply disappointing to she , but we have an independent report that say that 2030 be achievable — she say that it be not . it also say that it will give we energy security — she say that it will not . it also say that it can lead to low electricity , which she constantly deny . the truth about the right hon . Lady be that she have nothing to say . the conservative party be basically say , " stop the world — we want to get off . " that will do nothing for the british people . she have a lot to learn . I be afraid to say that she need to start reflect on where her government go wrong . they go wrong in many different way , and she do not seem to be learn any lesson . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . may I gently say to the shadow Secretary of State that she really should not believe dodgy headline in the Daily Telegraph ? in fact , I be not sure whether headline in the Daily Telegraph be ever not dodgy , base on what she be quote . more importantly , though , let I congratulate the Prime Minister on his leadership at the conference of the party , and the Secretary of State on lead the negotiation , and not least on deliver the £ 300 billion of climate finance for develop country . he set out this country ' s achievement since the general election ; to what extent will the combination of what this country show at COP and what we have deliver at home since 4 July encourage country around the world to play their part in address the climate crisis ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . two truth come out of COP : first , the transition be unstoppable and , secondly , it be not go fast enough . there be such a difference from a decade ago — my hon . friend , who be there with I , be nod in agreement — because every country know that the climate crisis be happen and be affect they . the testimony I hear be like the testimony that we could provide about what people be see . every country know they have to act , and while they all face constraint in acting , they also know — this be the big change from a decade ago — that it be massively in their economic interest . there be a race on for the good job of the future , and the clean energy transition can provide they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . COP29 conclude with a deal that , while welcome , leave much to be desire . I must stress that we need bold , more decisive action if we be to face the great challenge of our time : the climate crisis . I know that the right hon . Gentleman ' s heart be in the right place and have be for many year . we first meet in the run - up to COP15 in 2009 , and I express my thank to he for his staunch leadership in the intervene year . I express Lib Dem support for a brave programme of action go forward and our willingness to work with his Department to help the UK step up and seize this opportunity for climate leadership . while we welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to ambitious emission target for 2035 , commitment alone be not enough . immediate action be need to insulate home , reduce energy cost and ensure that no one have to choose between heating and eat . the delay to labour ' s warm home plan until spring 2025 be unacceptable when million of people , include 1 . 2 million pensioner , face a cold and unaffordable winter due to the cut in the winter fuel allowance . in my South Cotswolds constituency and all across the UK , we have see at first hand the devastating effect of climate change , and never more so than over the last few day , with flood and storm become more frequent and severe . town and village in my constituency , such as Purton , Great Somerford and Cirencester , have be severely affect by flooding , and we need urgent action now to mitigate climate change and help our community adapt to the likely impact now and in the future . I associate myself with the thank already express to the brave man and woman of our emergency service in the aftermath of storm Bert . climate leadership must prioritise solution that protect community and restore nature . natural flood defence , such as wetland — you have use your two minute . my apology — I think I have five minute . the whip need to be give you well instruction . may I finish with a question ? will the Secretary of State commit to include natural flood defence as a central part of the £ 5 . 2 billion flood defence spending to ensure that community like those in the South Cotswolds be well protect from the worsen impact of climate change while address biodiversity loss ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and support for ambitious action , which be important . let I pick out a couple of the point she make . first , the point about the devastating effect of the climate crisis already be apparent be important . part of the danger be that those effect will end up be the new normal , and we will just think of they as part of life . they be part of life in a sense and , as she say , we need the right flood defence in place and so on , but we also need to realise that those effect will get significantly bad if we do not act . future generation will , frankly , hold we in infamy , say , " you know about the scale of the devastation and have see a preview of what be to come , and you decide you couldn ' t act , " so she be absolutely right . secondly , let I gently correct the hon . Lady on the warm home plan . we be get on with the warm home plan ; indeed , announcement be make last week about action that will help over 300 , 000 family benefit from home upgrade next year . there be announcement about heat pump and a whole range of action to help family do well and lower their energy bill . I will make one more point , which be part of what the hon . Lady be say : this be a climate crisis and a nature crisis . it be a climate and biodiversity crisis . it be a bit disappointing that the nature part of the agenda at COP do not get the attention it deserve , and that will be important for COP30 in Brazil . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . no one can doubt the leadership that the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State show in Baku , and they deserve great credit for that . the Secretary of State be right that there be a danger of overselle the achievement of the COP . develop nation have be critical about the financial agreement that be reach , and the commitment make in Paris on fossil fuel be not follow through , as he say . what be the main barrier right now to get the action and pace of action that be need ? do he have confidence that in Rio we will see the real breakthrough that the world be wait for ? my hon . friend ask absolutely the right question . the truth on the finance side be that this represent a significant scaling up at a time when develop and develop country face extreme pressure on the public finance . there be a significant development whereby the flow to multilateral development bank from large emitter , such as China , will now count towards the overall finance goal . that be a big change and a big step forward . on the transition away from fossil fuel , the barrier be that some country be worried about what it mean for they — that be totally understandable . some country think it will be problematic for their prosperity . the truth be that we will just have to make well effort with the majority of country that want to see action prevail at next year ' s COP , and that will involve hard yard . finally , we must have a campaign for — this be something we will work on with Brazil — ambitious ndc because it be crucial that that be the job of the next COP . I commend to the Secretary of State " the UK Small Island Developing States Strategy " report , which be produce by the International Development Committee just before Parliament be dissolve for the general election . a key focus of that report be the need to support those island state not just at COP , but all the time by the UK be an advocate for their need and requirement across the international community . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and he speak with customary eloquence on the issue . this be literally an existential issue for the small island state . their testimony at COP be compelling and deeply distressing , and that be why the finance deal be important . it be not everything they want , but it be a step forward . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement today and the agreement reach at COP29 in Baku . he and I go back a long way on COP , so we know what it be like when it go wrong . I particularly welcome the nationally determine contribution to reduce our greenhouse gas emission by 81 % by 2035 . do he agree that the fundamental reason we have leadership on the global stage now , as distinct from what we have have for the past 14 year , be not just because of the target , but because we have a plan ? this cop be suppose to be about implementation , and where we lead on implementation , other will follow . my hon . friend be right . she be with I at Copenhagen , and I definitely have Copenhagen post - traumatic stress disorder at the talk at various moment in the middle of the night . her point about the target and action be absolutely right , and there be global recognition that this Government have up the pace in the multiple way I describe in my statement , and that be incredibly important . that be also important because business see it happen and think that Britain be a country that be clear about its direction and that they will invest there . I can only speak for North Norfolk , but a green energy future be exciting for our local economy , especially at Bacton . just along the coast , village like Happisburgh be suffer from be part of the fast eroding coastline in Europe . the Secretary of State touch on coastal erosion in answer to my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , but can I push he specifically on how the outcome of COP will provide reassurance to my resident who be worried about lose their home to coastal erosion now ? as far as COP29 be concern , we be speed up global action . as I describe in my statement , this finance deal could mean a reduction equivalent to 15 time the emission of Britain . that be hard go , but it be the way to reduce the temperature rise that will take place . the world be in danger of bust through 1 . 5 ° C and go beyond that . that be why action be so urgent and why this finance deal really matter . I strongly welcome the Secretary of State ' s signing of a new UK - US advanced nuclear technology agreement at COP . will he share more detail of that agreement , and do he agree that it could form the basis of a much more ambitious agreement between the UK and the US on civil nuclear development ? that be an important agreement and I be glad that my hon . friend have draw attention to it . this be about the next generation of nuclear power station . the truth be — and this apply across clean energy , in nuclear , renewable and so on — that we can learn so much from and work with each other in global and bilateral co - operation . we can work with US and UK company . there can be huge benefit right across the country . last Thursday , the Prime Minister imply that the new wind energy project in Hull would result in low energy bill for my constituent , but he refuse to say by when . when can my constituent and other across the country expect to see the £ 300 reduction in their bill that the Labour party promise ? the National Energy System Operator report , which be the advice give to we by the independent body , show that this will lead to low electricity bill . that be so important , because we get two protection from " Clean Power 2030 " : one be low bill , and the second be that we be protect against the devastating price spike that affect the hon . Lady ' s constituent during the gas price crisis of 2022 . when I consider this sort of issue , I tend to think of my grandchild and what the world will be like for they in year to come . I listen to my right hon . friend talk about our achievement over the past five month , and then I listen to the response from the conservative party , which fill I with horror . despite what my right hon . Friend say , there be tough negotiation at this COP , and he must be congratulate on the role that he play in achieve the agreement that we get there . how essential be it that we continue with that leadership , consider what could have happen if the Conservatives have stay in power ? my hon . friend be right : although we have party political disagreement on some issue , this country have avoid a fraying and splitting of this consensus , as have happen in other country . the consensus on climate action be so important precisely because of what he have set out : the fate of his grandchild and all future generation , and the impact on they . I want to work with people across party on this issue , because the more of a consensus we have , the well it be for the country . low - income country be extremely disappointed by the finance agreement at COP — $ 300 billion do not come anywhere near the level of need . critically , there be no clarity on how much of it would be grant , as oppose to loan , which would plunge global south country far into debt . do the Secretary of State share my concern about the potential dominance of loan and an overreliance on the private sector , and do he agree that considerable public finance could and should be raise through taxis on the most polluting company ? I understand why the hon . Lady express that disappointment — indeed , a number of develop country express that disappointment . however , I think that this be a considerable scaling - up of resource . that be to state the obvious , because $ 100 billion be the previous commitment . it be the provision and mobilisation of resource . she be right about the balance between grant and loan , and about the fund that be require for adaptation , but the truth be that public finance on its own will never meet the need . that be why the agreement on carbon market that be part of this COP be important , and why the mobilisation of private finance , and work on a road map to that mobilisation , which be also part of the agreement , be so important . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and acknowledge that the UK be lucky to have unique resource that put we at the forefront of the energy transition . do he acknowledge that industrial heartland such as our in Doncaster be let down by the last government , with promise after promise and announcement after announcement , but no delivery ? will he set out what the Labour Government will do to back british industry and , more importantly , coalfield such as those in our constituency ? my hon . friend and constituency neighbour be absolutely right about that . this be where the opportunity be huge . for South Yorkshire , there be opportunity around hydrogen , carbon capture and storage , and the job in insulate home . we know that many of our industrial heartland have be cry out for good job and good wage , and they have be cry out for they for a long time . this be the opportunity to make that happen . COP leader agree to triple climate finance to $ 300 billion a year . the Secretary of State refer to the spending review in his statement , but the Prime Minister sign up to that international commitment . the Secretary of State must know how much the UK will have to pay . will he tell the House ? that be not the way it work . we set a global total and then it be for individual country to come forward with their contribution — that be the way it work . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . my constituency be at the mercy of climate change , as the flood show at the weekend . it be deeply frustrating for many of my constituent to hear the opposition fail to grasp the urgency . we be on the frontline of the impact of climate change , but we also want to be on the frontline of the response , so many of my constituent welcome the warm home plan . what be he do to ensure that we have the workforce to deliver that plan , particularly in constituency such as mine that have house that be quite hard to retrofit ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be work — through my Department and the Office for Clean Energy Jobs — with Skills England to ensure that we have that workforce plan . there be huge job opportunity here . we must ensure that we have the workforce plan , and that people have the assurance that work will be properly regulate and they can expect high standard . this be a massive national mission , and we will come forward with more proposal on it in the come month . we learn three thing from the statement . the first be that the climate finance will come from the exist UK aid budget . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that the increase in the UK aid budget will be great than the amount that have go on climate finance , so that we can be confident that we be not rob Peter to pay Paul in the developed world ? do the important agreement on deforestation mean that the UK will stop spend almost £ 11 billion on subsidy to burn tree in England to generate electricity — be that one of the important element that he talk about on deforestation ? he claim in his statement that GB Energy be set up . can he tell we where we can go and see it ? [ laughter . ] thank so much for the support . let I deal with the hon . Gentleman ' s question in turn . it have always be the case that climate finance be part of the aid budget — that be not some new announcement I have make . obviously , that be a decision that we make , along with the Foreign Office and other colleague across Government , about the right balance of resource and where the need be great . as for GB Energy , he know that it will be headquarter in Aberdeen . we be get on with set it up : we have a start - up chair in Juergen Maier , and it be plough ahead . we have be in office less than five month , but the legislation be go through , and that will happen . the hon . Gentleman ' s second question be about Drax . the previous Government issue a consultation on that , and we will respond in the month ahead . the Secretary of State be absolutely right to say at the close of the climate talk that the only way to keep the british people safe from extreme weather and economic disruption be to ensure that the world act together . that require funding , but it be clear that the COP in Azerbaijan do not deliver that at the scale need . the Make Polluters Pay coalition be call for the big oil company worldwide , which have make grotesque profit while drive the climate crisis , to fund the require investment at home and abroad . be that not the fair way to secure the necessary finance ? we obviously have to look at all these issue . these global levy and taxis be always quite complex and difficult thing to make happen . we have say that we will support the idea of the maritime levy , but we need to proceed cautiously on these issue , because frankly it be important that the finance be provide , and we will obviously engage in those discussion in the month ahead . as champion of the North sea , the previous Government underpin 200 , 000 job right across the UK . what do the Secretary of State say to Offshore Energies UK , which say that the Government ' s energy tax have strip out around £ 13 billion of investment in the North sea — money that will not be recover by the anaemic and frankly invisible GB Energy ? we just disagree on the idea that we should not have tax the unearned profit of the energy company , which be pay for directly by the british people . if the hon . Gentleman want to say that we should not have have a windfall tax on the oil and gas company , he be way out of line with his constituent . my constituent be very proud that one of our own , Samia Dumbuya , be part of the Future Leaders Network work with the UK Youth Climate Coalition at Baku . I know that the Secretary of State will agree that young people need to be at the heart of what come next follow COP . they welcome the propose ndcs , but they now need a direct and dedicated place in make they happen . can he tell we what formal mechanism for the oversight and delivery of the reduction of emission by 81 % by 2035 he envisage for the young people of the UK ? my hon . Friend ask a really important question . I meet with some of the youth campaigner and the youth coalition at COP , and I agree with they . the UK have sign up to a youth clause in our NDC , which be about recognise young people as agent of change when it come to climate and the need to engage with young people . I would love to talk to my hon . friend and those young people about how we take those issue forward in the month ahead . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and agree that the UK must show global leadership on climate action . Peatlands be the large natural terrestrial carbon store , yet damage peatland be responsible for almost 5 % of global anthropogenic co2 emission . the UK import 60 % of peat use in horticulture , offshore carbon emission abroad . do the Secretary of State agree that , beyond COP29 , we must continue to show global leadership and protect the environment by commit to a phase ban on peat in horticulture ? I will deal with the wide issue of peatland , because money be allocate in the Budget for these issue through the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . that be a very important issue , and the wide issue be also important . we also need to make progress at a global level . the other issue be actually a matter for DEFRA , but I will undertake to write to the hon . Lady on they . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I be proud of the constructive role that the UK play in the negotiation , represent our country and also some of the poor people on the planet , who be at the absolute frontline of climate change , partly due to the emission from this country . but COP be not without its critic , despite it be the only platform to progress our climate ambition . how do the Secretary of State think that the process could be improve ? in particular , what gentle advice would he give to anyone think about take over the presidency of a major world economy early next year ? I will resist the second half of my hon . friend ' s question , if you don ' t mind , Mr Speaker . on the first part of his question , the COP process do have its critic , so I will say a couple of thing . first , 15 year ago , when I last attend the COP as Secretary of State in Copenhagen , no country be sign up to net zero . now , 90 % of the world ' s GDP be cover by net zero . that be not only because of the COP , but that process of international engagement be important , and it be a force mechanism to put world leader on the spot . secondly , the reason why it be hard be largely because we have 198 country all try to agree , which be difficult . if people can think of improvement to the system , that be great , but that engagement be really important . let I get this straight . the Secretary of State be welcome a conference to deal with co2 where the host country try to use it to sell oil and gas deal ; where the leader of those country that be the major producer of CO2 do not even bother turn up ; where we send 490 civil servant , fly they out to attend the conference ; and where the main topic be how to extract money from country that be guilty of the sin of industrialisation . the Secretary of State have shoot out his chest today and say , " we be now leader in global climate . " it be hard to be a leader when we have no follower , that be all I will say . how can the Secretary of State face the hard - press taxpayer of the United Kingdom , who be reel under the impact of the late budget , and expect they to pay out billion to foreign country — order . the right hon . Gentleman and I have be debate these issue for 15 year , and I hazard a guess that we will not end up agree . the truth about the climate crisis be that it be the big potential cost that future generation can face . there will be trillion of cost across the world and ten and hundred of billion of cost in the UK if we do not act . all the evidence be that the cost of act on climate change be much low than the cost of not act . I be in Paris nine year ago when we start the process of negotiation on article 6 of the Paris agreement , which be conclude only with the gavel go down in Baku . it be an important process , ensure a carbon market through the United Nations framework convention on climate change . how will the UK implement the new article 6 regulation ? how will we support other country in this important work , as we can utilise it for nature - base solution such as reforestation and afforestation ? my hon . friend make a really important point — it may be a slight counter to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . beneath the headline , this be where the hard yard of work at COP happen . it have take 10 year to do these article 6 negotiation and complete they , but this be about voluntary carbon market . in answer to my hon . friend ' s question , we be consult on some of the high - integrity principle for that , but again , this will make a difference to develop country and get fund flow to they . that be another reason why these cop be worthwhile . the Secretary of State be in consensus - build mode . may I offer he the opportunity to address the 10 , 975 member of my Spelthorne constituency who will lose their winter fuel payment , or the 100 , 000 pensioner who will be plunge into poverty ? can he explain to they why they be wrong when they see the Government take money from their pocket in order to be able to have enough money to send overseas ? the hon . Gentleman be wrong to say that . the truth be that the last Government leave the public finance in an appalling state , which be why those decision be make . as I have explain , we have agree a global total when it come to climate , but UK contribution be a matter for we and our spending review and depend on our fiscal situation . do the £ 1 billion Siemens deal in east Hull go to prove the Government ' s commitment to make the UK a clean energy superpower ? my hon . friend be right about that and have be a great champion on these issue . it show the opportunity — there be countless opportunity across the world , include in relation to this finance deal , because this will create huge business opportunity . the truth be that government all across the world be alive to those opportunity , and I want Britain to win these job of the future . where be the leadership , and what example do it set , in fly 470 official and delegate — more than any other western european country — halfway across the world to a climate change jamboree ? can the Secretary of State say what the cost have be in term of carbon and cash ? there be a long tradition of civil servant play a really important role at these cop . in fact , the right hon . Gentleman may be interested to know that we send 100 few civil servant to this COP than to the last one under the previous Government . I absolutely defend public servant do a brilliant job and go to these cop . why ? because it be absolutely in the british national interest . to echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , will my right hon . friend consider take a young person — perhaps from a sixth form or a university — along to the next COP meeting as an adviser , to remind our delegation and , indeed , delegation around the world that it be young people ' s future that be on the table ? there be indeed member of the UK Youth Climate Coalition who go to cop . I do not want to interfere in UKYCC ' s process for pick those people , but my hon . friend make an important point about the voice of young people . they represent young people , but they also represent future generation , and hear how those future generation will regard the action that we do or do not take be incredibly important . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Madam Deputy Speaker . despite today ' s statement note that it be in the UK ' s interest to speed up clean energy , we still need urgent clarity on clean energy project . will the Secretary of State finally confirm the Government ' s plan for nuclear at Wylfa in my constituency ? we do think that Wylfa have very important prospect . there be an important pipeline of nuclear project that we be move forward with , and we look forward to discussion about Wylfa in the come month . I commend the Secretary of State for his leadership and his statement , and join he in his bipartisanship . I be happy to recognise the contribution of Theresa May and Boris Johnson , but it say a lot that it take Labour member of Parliament to do that because Conservative Front Benchers be run so fast and so far away from those contribution . do the Secretary of State agree that clean energy be how we achieve energy security , and that energy security be how we achieve national security when our world be in turmoil and this country face threat like never before ? both the point that my hon . friend make be right . I be happy to acknowledge the role of Theresa May in put net zero into law , as well as that of Alok Sharma and even Boris Johnson , who fight to champion some of these issue . it be a real shame , and it speak volume , that we can say those thing and the Conservatives do not . I agree with the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , who talk about there be no national security without energy security . we discover after Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine how dependent the UK be on import gas . when talk to other country , do the Government make the case for investment in clean energy , and how it can reduce dependency on malign petrostate such as Russia ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine demonstrate the truth , which be that , unfortunately , fossil fuel do not give we energy security . whether those fossil fuel come from the North sea or be import , price shoot through the roof ; our constituent pay the price , and the Government pay out £ 94 billion in support . that be why our clean energy superpower mission be so important , to give we the energy security that the Conservatives completely fail to give we . I commend the Energy Secretary on his work , both in the UK and his global leadership at COP29 . many develop country continue to face the intensify effect of the climate crisis . for their sake and for our , we can not afford inaction and delay . can the Secretary of State clarify what specific work will be undertake to improve global ambition so that we can transition away from fossil fuel and keep alive the commitment to keep the world ' s temperature rise below 1 . 5 ° c ? my hon . friend ask absolutely the right question . that be the work that we will be undertake with Brazil and other like - minded country in the year ahead . next year mark a very important moment : we have to set our nationally determined contribution for 2035 , five year on from the last time the world do so . this be such an important moment , because it be how we need to get back on track for keep temperature rise down . we will be strain every sinew to work with other to make that happen . it be always a pleasure to hear the Secretary of State commit to a strategy and a plan that look forward , even though we may have some question about it . my fear have always be about the funding that have be grant , which be incredibly substantial . how will the Secretary of State ensure that that huge pot of funding be use to achieve the necessary aim , not siphon off or lose in the process ? I say this bearing in mind that push a pen around and make a way through red tape can be a very costly endeavour . that money need to go to the project that make a difference . how can that be guarantee before we allocate any more of our hard - press taxpayer ' money ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . as much as develop country want the big possible sum to support they , they be as worried about the quality of finance and their access to fund as they be about the quantum . time and again , I hear from develop country that they wait year to access the available fund , so ensure that they be spend on the right thing and be accessible will be crucial work for the month and year ahead . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the leadership that this Government show at COP29 , recognise that with the global transition under way , the economic benefit will accrue to those who lead and shape it , rather than shy away from it and remain all too passive in the face of the economic force that it herald . can the Secretary of State set out how we will ensure that we capture those benefit domestically and show the necessary leadership to drive investment , growth and opportunity to every part of the UK , so that we have a coherent economic strategy that touch every part of our nation ? both part of what my hon . friend say be right . since we contribute only 1 % of global emission , we must work with other to ensure that we tackle this problem . the big thing I find in this job be that clarity of purpose and direction make a huge difference to private investor . uncertainty be the enemy of investment , while the certainty and direction that this Government be provide be the friend of company invest in the UK . constituency such as mine and region such as the north - east once power the british economy . do the Secretary of State agree that the leadership we be now show must secure investment for those region that have far too often be leave behind , and that that investment must include new nuclear for town such as Hartlepool ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this be the route to reindustrialisation , and nuclear be a central part of this Government ' s clean energy mission . as I always say , electricity use will at least double by 2050 , so we need all the technology at our disposal . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and thank he for show such leadership on the world stage alongside the Prime Minister . as he mention in his statement , Britain must show leadership to get the 99 % of emission contribute by the rest of the world down , with nearly 1 billion people at risk of drought , flooding and heatwave . give the climate sceptic who now face he on the Opposition Front Bench , can my right hon . friend restate for this House why it be in Britain ' s interest to help those people ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . my constituent in Doncaster have face two supposedly one - in - 100 - year flooding event over the past 10 year or so , and we know that those event will become much more extreme if we do not act , but the truth be that we can not act on our own ; we must act with other . that be the fundamental case for multilateral engagement and work with other on these climate issue , which the conservative party use to believe , but no more it seem . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for his clear global leadership on this issue over many year . a constituent , Michael Jones — a leader in climate change education — attend Baku as part of the COP delegation with a delegation of student from across the UK as part of the climate change challenge , lead on effort to educate policymaker on the impact of climate change on the next generation . do my right hon . friend agree that the next generation deserve well and a Government who — unlike the Opposition , who flip - flop and show no consistency on the issue — have a firm commitment to deliver a reduction in emission with the international community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . [ interruption . ] conservative Members be chuckle away but the truth be that this be a very serious and important point . the british people want we to act . they want we to act across party on this issue . they know it be a massive threat to our country because they see it in their daily life and they see it on the news , and they also know it be the big opportunity for our country . we believe it . the Conservatives use to believe it ; I be afraid they be way out of step with the british people . " get Britain work " White Paper 1 . 40 pm with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on our " get Britain work " White Paper , bring forward the big reform to employment support in a generation , turn a Department for welfare into a Department for work , and take the first step towards deliver our bold ambition of an 80 % employment rate in a decade of national renewal . nothing short of fundamental reform be need to turn the page on the last 14 year , the legacy of which have leave the UK as the only G7 country whose employment rate have not return to pre - pandemic level and with a near - record 2 . 8 million people out of work due to long - term sickness , and almost 1 million young people not in education , employment or training and million more stuck in low - pay insecure work . all those problem be far bad in the midland and the north , part of the country that be deindustrialise in the ' 80 and ' 90 — the very same place that have low life expectancy and chronic poor health that the conservative party repeatedly promise to level up but repeatedly fail to deliver on . the result be an economic but , above all , social crisis , pay for in the life chance and living standard of people across this country , and by a benefit bill for sickness and disability that be set to rise by £ 26 billion by the end of this Parliament . we have end up here because of the failure of Conservative Members to create good job in every part of the country , to deliver on the NHS , and to properly reform welfare . under our government , that will change , with new opportunity match by the responsibility to take they up : under this Labour Government , if you can work , you must work . our White Paper bring in three major reform . first , we will create a new job and career service that overhaul jobcentre : from a one - size - fit - all service that overwhelmingly focus on administer benefit , to a genuine public employment service that provide personalised support for all . we will bring jobcentre together with the National Careers Service in England , begin with a pathfinder early next year , back with £ 55 million of initial funding . we will work closely with mayor and local leader to ensure that our new job and career service be root in local community and properly join up with local help and support . we will also work closely with employer to develop the service , because only one in six business have ever use a jobcentre to recruit , and that must change . for too many people , walk into a jobcentre feel like go back in time to the ' 80 or ' 90 , so we will trial a radically improve digital offer use the late technology and AI to provide up - to - date information on job , skill and other support , and to free up work coach time . we will also test video and phone support — because in the 2020 , rather than go into the jobcentre only every week or fortnight , people can have a jobcentre in their pocket . our frontline staff be our great asset , so we will develop the work coach and career adviser profession , include by launch a new coach academy . the second major reform be our new youth guarantee , so that every young person be earn or learn . this come alongside our commitment to provide mental health support in every school , our work experience and career advice offer , and our plan to reform the last Government ' s fail apprenticeship levy to give more young people the opportunity they deserve . our new youth guarantee will go far , bring together all the support for 18 to 21 - year - old under the leadership of mayor and local area so all young people have access to education , training and employment opportunity and no young person miss out . today I can announce that we will establish eight trailblazer area for our youth guarantee : the Liverpool city region , the west midland , Tees valley , east midland , Cambridgeshire and Peterborough , west of England , and two area within Greater London , back by £ 45 million of additional funding . I can also announce a new national partnership to provide exciting opportunity for young people in sport , art and culture , start with some of Britain ' s most iconic cultural and sporting organisation , include the Premier League , the Royal Shakespeare Company , and Channel 4 , build on the brilliant work they already do to inspire and engage the young generation and get they on the pathway to success . this be our commitment to young people : " we value you , you be important , we will invest in you and give you the chance you deserve ; but in return for these new opportunity , you have a responsibility to take they up , because be unemployed or lack basic qualification when you be young can harm your job prospect and wage for the rest of your life . and that be not good enough for young people or for our country . " the third reform in our White Paper be our new plan to drive down economic inactivity cause by poor health . the Health Secretary be already take action to get people back to health and back to work , with extra support to drive down waiting list in the 20 NHS trust with the high level of economic inactivity . we be join up employment and health support , expand individual placement support to reach an additional 140 , 000 people with mental health problem and deliver new WorkWell service , which include GPs refer patient to employment adviser and other work - relate support such as the brilliant service in the Junction Medical Practice in North London we visit recently . however , we will go much far and fast to tackle this issue . to meet the scale of the challenge , we will devolve new funding , new power and new responsibility to tackle economic inactivity to mayor and local area , because local leader know their community well . we will support all area in England to produce local " get Britain work " plan , join up work , health and skill support . today I be announce eight trailblazer area back by £ 125 million of additional funding in south Yorkshire , west Yorkshire , the north - east , Greater Manchester , Wales , York and north Yorkshire , and two Greater London area . in three of these area — south and west Yorkshire , and the north - east — this will include dedicated input and £ 45 million of funding for local NHS integrate care system . we be also fund a new support employment programme call Connect to Work , back by £ 115 million of initial funding for next year . this will be include in the integrate settlement of combined authority , start with Greater Manchester and the west midland . employer have such an important role to play in help get people into work , and crucially to stay in work , so today I can announce a new independent " keep Britain Working " review , look at the role of UK employer and Government in tackle health - relate inactivity and create healthy workplace . this will be lead by the former chair of John Lewis , Sir Charlie Mayfield , and will report in the autumn . finally , we will bring forward a Green Paper on our proposal for reform the health and disability benefit system , so that disabled people and those with health condition have the same right as everybody else , include the right to work ; so that we treat disabled people with dignity and respect ; and so that we shift the focus to prevention and respond to the complex and fluctuate nature of today ' s health condition . we will work closely with disabled people and their organisation as we develop our proposal , which we will publish in the spring . this White Paper start to turn the corner on the past 14 year , put forward the real reform we need to get more people into work and on at work , to give young people the very good start in life and to ensure our employment and social security system understand the fundamental issue that a healthy nation and a healthy economy be two side of the same coin . this be how we get Britain work again . it be how we get Britain grow again , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . the Conservatives be the party of work and aspiration — [ interruption . ] in the decade after we take over from Labour , we drive down unemployment — [ interruption . ] order . in the decade after we take over from Labour , we drive down unemployment and economic inactivity year after year , include youth unemployment , which go down by 400 , 000 after the mess we inherit from the last Labour Government . during the pandemic , we take unprecedented action to protect job and livelihood , but since the pandemic we have face a new and difficult challenge in this country : rise economic inactivity , particularly among young people . in government , we be tackle that . I know that , because as a Health Minister I be work on it . I be delighted that the right hon . Lady and the Health Secretary visit one of our WorkWell pilot just the other day . I be work on our fit note reform , our youth offer , which help a million young people , and our universal support scheme , which I now hear the Secretary of State have quietly rebrande as her own connect to work scheme . far from be cross that the Government be pinch our idea , I welcome the right hon . Lady take our work forward . she be make the right noise about how important it be to fix this area . economic inactivity be a big problem for our economy and for each and every individual who risk be write off to a life on benefit . know that , I be disappoint by the substance of what she be announce today , because far from match her rhetoric , it appear to be little more than a pot of money for local council , some disparage language about the work of jobcentre and a consultation that will be launch in the spring . give that the Government have have 14 year to prepare for this moment , be that it ? where be the reform to benefit that will make material saving to the taxpayer , such as the £ 12 billion we commit to save in our manifesto ? where be the reform to fit note , which we have hand over , ready to go ? where be the Secretary of State ' s plan for reform the work capability assessment ? she have bank the £ 3 billion of saving from our plan , but have fail to set out her own . her big announcement be make benefit for young people conditional . do she forget that they already be ? the fact be that the Secretary of State have dodge the tough decision . every day that she kick the can down the road cost the taxpayer million of pound . at this rate , spend on sickness benefit will rise to £ 100 billion by the end of this Parliament . they be take that money from farmer , from pensioner and from business . to get people off benefit , we need job for they to go into . those be the very job that business be say , since the Budget , they will no long be hire for . while the right hon . Lady try to get people into work , her Chancellor be busy destroy job — 50 , 000 job lose from her first Budget alone . if the Secretary of State want to get more 18 - year - old into work , she should have a word with her Chancellor , who have make it so that from April it will cost £ 5 , 000 more for a business to employ they . she should have a word with her Business Secretary , whose Employment Rights Bill will , accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , make it less likely for employer to take on young people . the Government can not solve this problem on their own . business be the engine of our economy that create job for people to do . it be tell that I can not see a single business representative on the new Labour Market Advisory Board . I do hear the right hon . Lady talk about some new partnership , but this announcement be such a song and dance about so little that I feel sure she will qualify for one of her own Royal Shakespeare Company apprenticeship . she have kick the can so far down the road that her new partner , the Premier League , be sure to be on the phone by the end of the day . may I for a moment cut through the word soup of the announcement ? it be time for the right hon . Lady to tell the House some fact . how many people will it help into work , and by when ? what be the total she be save the taxpayer ? when will she reach her 80 % employment target ? what return on investment be she expect from these plan ? how will she measure her success or failure ? this be so far from the bold grasping of the nettle that she be make it out to be and that this country need for our economy , for taxpayer and for the million of people miss out on the purpose and freedom that work bring . it be simply not good enough . may I say gently to the hon . Lady , who I personally like and have a great deal of time for , that the only people who dodge difficult decision on welfare be the Conservatives ? the fact speak for themselves . by the end of this Parliament , the Office for Budget Responsibility say that 420 , 000 more people will be on health - relate universal credit benefit , rise from a third now to a half at the end of the Parliament . that be her Government ' s legacy . one in eight of all our young people be not in education , employment or training . we have see a doubling in the number of young people out of work due to long - term sickness and a doubling of young people out of work because of mental health problem . after 14 year in government , who do she think be responsible for that ? I be afraid that the truth be stare she in the face : the Conservatives be now the party of welfare , and Labour be the party of work . the hon . Lady talk about british business . I know only too well the pressure that many business face . we have speak to the CBI , the Federation of Small Businesses and the British Chambers of Commerce , and they be keen to work with we on our proposal . they know that their member have hundred of thousand of vacancy that they need to fill , one in three of which be because of skill gap . they know that 300 , 000 people every single year fall out of work due to a health condition . they need support to try to tackle that problem . I believe that the Department for Work and Pensions and jobcentre should serve business ' need and aspiration , not be the place of last resort . that be precisely what our reform will deliver . finally , the big challenge we face today be the grow number of people out of work or at risk of fall out of work due to health problem or a disability . our entire employment and benefit system be simply not gear up to deal with that . we will take example of good practice from wherever we find they , but we have get to go much far . we need big reform , not easy slogan that say people just feel a bit too bluesy to work , which do nothing to help people get to grip with the real issue in their life . we be face up to our responsibility and the difficult decision necessary to get Britain work again . it be time the hon . Lady and her party do the same . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and I look forward to read the White Paper later . the cross - departmental approach she be take with colleague be essential and be a breath of fresh air , particularly in relation to tackle the root cause of economic inactivity , which she have explain predominantly relate to ill health . in addition to the need to tackle regional inequality in employment , my right hon . friend will be aware that there be a 30 % disability employment gap , with 2 . 25 million disabled people want and able to work . how will she tackle that real injustice ? we know that disabled people be more likely to be live in poverty than other group . what be her specific plan in that regard ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I be work hard to tear down the barrier to disabled people be able to get work and get on in work . we be take action across Government , include report on the disability employment gap . we need to tackle the long wait for access to Work and the adaptation and other support that people need . we also need brilliant support employment programme for people with autism and learn difficulty , such as those that I and my right hon . friend the Health Secretary recently visit in our own nhs trust . they really provide a pathway to work , with the right help and support . there be much more that we need to do , and I look forward to discuss these issue with my hon . friend and other member of the Committee . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . under the Conservatives the UK ' s be the only economy to see employment rate fall over the last five year , leave a legacy of wrecked apprenticeship , mental health service not fit for purpose and million on waiting list unable to work , as well as those with caring responsibility stay at home to provide care for their love one because of the failure in our social care system . the Liberal Democrats welcome step to improve access to skill , training and education . I praise the work of Fedcap and Maximus UK , which be do just that in Chichester in conjunction with the jobcentre , work with those who have have long period of economic inactivity or have additional challenge in find work . but the insecurity and short - term nature of Government funding for such project mean that both organisation have to pause their referral this year while they wait for the Government to confirm their continue funding . I be sure that the Secretary of State agree that to get people back into work , the organisation already try to do that need more security from the Government . when it come to tackle the mental health crisis , it be not enough to reverse the Conservatives ' lack of action . the Government must be proactive in improve mental health service . I invite the Secretary of State to take the proactive idea that the Liberal Democrats lay out in our general election manifesto such as catch more mental health condition early on by offer mental health mot and the introduction of mental health hub in every community to deliver ease of access to walk - in service and support . it be abundantly clear that ensure people get the NHS treatment they need be critical to get people back to work . the NHS can not tackle its long waiting list unless the Government get serious about fix the crisis in social care . we have hear a lot of word from the Government on social care but see little action , with the increase in the social care budget totally erode by the national insurance contribution rise . do the Secretary of State agree that a healthy society be a productive society and that fix the health and social care crisis will get our country back to work ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . yes , I agree that we have get to tackle the root cause of the problem and have an NHS and social care system that be fit for purpose . we have put forward our commitment on mental health support in every school and every community . we know that many mental health problem start before someone turn 18 , so we have to try to prevent those problem in the first place , but there be much more that we need to do . we be start to see fantastic NHS service that provide employment advice as part of care . the evidence show that if a person be in good work , a sense of purpose and structure be good for their mental health . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be push for that to be available in all part of the country . I be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge . only 3 % of people who be economically inactive get back to work in any give year , so we have to prevent the problem from happen in the first place as well as do more to help those people into work . under the last government , the DWP face legal action for its unlawful treatment of disabled people . how will this White Paper , with its positive vision , rebuild trust and well support disabled people go forward ? the Government believe that disabled people have the same right as everybody else , include the right to work . our mission be to break down the barrier . many disabled people would want to work if they could get the right help and support and a job that fit their need and concern , with great flexibility . this be a really important challenge . I do not blame disabled people for often be frightened and worried when they hear about these discussion after what happen over the past 14 year , but we will work with disabled people and the organisation that represent they to get the world of work and the employment support system right and get a well - function system of disability benefit . this be a really big challenge for our country , but with these proposal we be take an important step forward . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s ambition in many of the area she have set out , and particularly the " Geep Britain Working " initiative . as a Parliament , we must come to term with the obesity and mental health crisis , so I welcome what she be do with the Secretary of State for Health . may I bring to the Secretary of State ' s attention the work of South Wilts Mencap ? I recently meet Robin Clifford , and over 14 year I have see the work that that group of trustee do with the adult learning disable , a particular and special group of individual in my constituency . I would welcome the opportunity to meet the Minister for Social Security and Disability to look at programme that could be start or pilot that could be undertake to get the learning disable into meaningful activity where they can make some contribution through pay work . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that important contribution . I and the Minister for Social Security and Disability would be keen to hear more about that work . I recently visit a support employment programme — a year - long support internship — run by my local health service for young people with autism and severe learn difficulty . it start by talk to the parent about what the young people could do , and not just what they could not do . the young people be get on the bus to get they to work . they try three different job around the hospital to find the one that well match their need , and after that year every single young person be give a pay job . that be so successful that we be expand it to the local university and to one of Leicester ' s big hotel chain . these change be possible , and I be keen to work with the right hon . gentleman in his area to ensure that we give these opportunity . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . I believe that these reform will be transformative , and it be not before time . in my constituency , we have long recognise the gap that exist in the system . our local authority have put in place the brilliant " Working Denbighshire " programme and Conwy employment hub , which really drill down into what local people need and take they on a pathway into work . do the Secretary of State agree that devolve power and — crucially — funding in the way she set out be key to achieve the good result we can for local people in their area ? this be a major change in our approach . local area know good their need and the different organisation that can help achieve goal . I know that economic inactivity in my city be predominantly drive by people with caring responsibility ; in other part of the country , it be more about physical health or mental health problem . we need different thing in different part of the country — that be the good way to get the good result . it be a big change for the Department for Work and Pensions to be a much more localise service and to be much more join up with other part of government , both nationally and locally , but that be how we will deliver change . business in my constituency be really worried and put off investing and create job because of the Labour party ' s Budget , and in particular the increase in regulation and the national insurance increase . how do the Secretary of State plan to get everyone who should be in work back to work if no job exist out there ? I understand the pressure that many business be under . the Budget try to deal with a very difficult issue : if we be spend more than we be earn , our public finance be not work . anyone who run a business know that they have to get the finance right , but many organisation recognise that they need to recruit more people with the skill that meet their particular concern . they be worried about the increase number of health condition and people leave work because of they . I be determined to work with and serve local business . I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to talk about the specific need of business in his constituency . I warmly welcome the White Paper . I think it be a huge step forward . mental health challenge have be the big single driver of rise inactivity among the young , and we know that mental health can be hugely help by work . one study show that just eight hour of work a week will reduce the risk of depression and anxiety by up to 30 % . give that , what will the Secretary of State do to help support those at risk from mental health issue to get back to work ? I have talk about what we aim to do to prevent mental health problem from happen in the first place , with more mental health support in school and in the community . I see this as a fundamental overhaul of the way the DWP and the NHS work together , so that support to get people with mental health problem into the right job become part of what the NHS do , by put employment adviser into the NHS . the individual placement and support service , which begin under the last government through the NHS , have show quite phenomenal result — 40 % of people be in work after five year . their use of the health service — the number of relapse and day they spend in hospital — be also reduce . that be well for work and for mental health . this require a big change in the way we work , but my right hon . friend the Health Secretary and I be determined to make that happen . many disabled or ill people be terrify by the Tories ' proposal to cut £ 3 billion from sickness benefit . give that Labour be continue that cut , will the Secretary of State promise to sign up to the principle of " nothing about we without we " and ensure that disabled people , those with ill health and those with live experience of these system be round the table , make the decision on how this move forward ? I have always be a big champion , include when I work in social care , of work in partnership with people to get the decision right first time . that be really important , which be why the Minister for Social Security and Disability and I be absolutely clear that we will work with disabled people in the relevant organisation to get this system right . I want to be really clear that the system be not work . People have to wait week on end to get an assessment , which often be overturn at tribunal . we do not do enough to prevent people from fall out of the workplace . ninety per cent . of people who get back into work after a bout of sickness do so within the first year , but we do not use that opportunity to provide the help and support that they need . we need change . I understand how worried people be when they hear about change , but I think they would also say that the change need to happen , and we be determined to put that in place . I warmly welcome the statement by my right hon . friend , because give people the opportunity to get on in life and have dignity in good work be at the heart of what drive I to this place . do the Secretary of State agree that help people into work in Paisley and Renfrewshire South be about get the economy grow again , as well as put more money into people ' s pocket ? will she say a little more about her discussion with the Scottish Government to ensure that they will play their full part in make sure that this work ? I be absolutely determined to get more people into well - pay job in every part of the country . that be the key to improve people ' s living standard and to get the economy grow again . our new job and career service will look different in Scotland because the Scottish Government be responsible for run the career service there , but we be already in discussion about how to make sure that our plan meet the specific need of people in Scotland , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I look forward to receive her idea and suggestion , which I know she will always provide . I want the Secretary of State to succeed , and I want she to be part of the first Labour majority Government ever to leave office with employment high than when they start . I have hope to hear a little more about reform , rather than just about a review , but this be a welcome step in the right direction . business in Basildon and Billericay have be tell I that although they welcome some of the scheme — I be sure that some of they will do good thing — they be absolutely terrify by both the taxis come through national insurance and the hit on they through business rate . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that at least 50 , 000 job a year will go because of those change , so where will the people who she be hope to get off benefit and into work find that employment ? as I have say to other hon . member , I be keen to talk to business right across the country , include in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , about the challenge that they face . we take a decision when we get into office that we could not continue with the fantasy economic . we can not spend more than we earn . we have to invest in the long - term physical infrastructure of the country , but also in our people , who be our good asset . we must get the NHS back on its foot . I know the issue that business face , but they be also think about the long term — the vacancy , and how on earth they get the skill that their business need . I would be very happy to talk to the hon . gentleman about that , if he like . I welcome the statement from my right hon . friend , and particularly what she say about the coach and assistance for young people get into work . what she describe seem to fit neatly with what the Government propose for the green economy , and its highly skilled , well - pay job . how will training for those job play a part in get people from unemployment into work ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . the " get Britain work " White Paper be part of a much wide series of reform that the Government be make to create more good job in every part of the country , include in green energy , through our modern industrial strategy , and through our plan , in the new deal for work people , to make work pay . yesterday , I be at a college in Peterborough that be look at how to upskill young people so that they can get the clean , green energy job of the future . that need to happen in every part of the country , because we want the new job that we be create to be available to those who need they most . we have not really manage to fit that together before — to get the DWP and our " get Britain work " plan underpin our local growth plan . that be a big change that we have to deliver , if we be to make sure that everybody in this country benefit from the job we be create . I welcome much of what the Secretary of State have say , and I be delighted that she have assure we that there will be discussion with the Scottish Government about plan for Scotland . throughout the past two or three year , business in my constituency have tell I that they be concerned that they can not get people to work for they , so this strategy will be welcome . however , do the Secretary of State appreciate that many of we see a contradiction between this policy and the national insurance change ? a major employer in my constituency tell I that the change will cost it £ 250 , 000 extra a year , and it will not take on seasonal worker because it can not afford to . how do that damaging policy for business go alongside try to encourage more people back to work ? of course business face these pressure , but I think many of they understand that the Government have to look at the fundamental . we face a problem with the public finance when we get into government . my right hon . friend the Chancellor take the decision that the only way we could sort out the country for the long term be to get the public finance back on a more sustainable footing . the business that I have meet , include Tesco in my constituency , raise concern with I , but they also say that they really want to get more young people who have mental health problem into work . Tesco have a brilliant partnership with the King ' s Trust to get those young people into work and help they stay there , because it know that the key to those young people ' s future be to get those skill , so that they can grow business and make the change that this country need . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . my constituent will very much welcome the additional funding for young people in the Tees Valley , and the modernisation of jobcentre , which will benefit our wonderful jobcentre staff . can the Secretary of State say how the change will dovetail with the Employment Rights Bill ? how will we ensure that young people be offer quality employment and training opportunity , and not pressure into accept inadequate and insecure zero - hour job ? can she also say how the Government and Members can monitor and evaluate the combined authority ’ delivery of the youth trailblazer programme ? my hon . friend will know of our plan to make work pay , bring in day one employment right , end exploitative zero - hour contract and improve flexibility at work . we need to do all those thing to make sure that there be good - quality job option out there for young people . there will be new leadership role for mayor in combined authority , but also clear accountability for deliver the outcome that we want , which be that every young person have an opportunity to earn or learn . we will make sure that happen . to ensure that " if you can work , you must work " , will the Secretary of State familiarise herself with the work of Jeremy Bentham ? if I have time . we have hear much about the failure of the conservative party , but after 17 year of SNP failure , young people in Central Ayrshire be look to this Government for the opportunity for a good job . what more will my right hon . friend do , through today ' s announcement , to help young people in Central Ayrshire and across Scotland ? it be hugely important that we deliver these new opportunity in every part of the country , include to people of all age in Scotland . we will work with the Scottish Government on that , but also , really importantly , with local council , who have a huge role to play . our jobcentre really need to change . they need to meet the need of employer and future employee in every part of the country . I look forward to work with my hon . friend , to get his idea on what will work well . perhaps we could do a joint visit to his jobcentre . it be all very well we talk about the Department for Work , but a challenge be often that we fail those in employment who be interact with the benefit system . I have a number of constituent in North East Fife who be pay on a four - weekly basis but who also claim universal credit , which mean that , one month a year , they lose their universal credit . simply tell they to try to put money aside to bridge that gap be not , I think , a professional way for we to support those people . I know that have be an ongoing challenge , but will the consultation look at such issue ? the hon . Lady raise a really important point . we have a clear manifesto commitment to review universal credit , tackle poverty and make work pay . that issue have be raise a lot with I and the Minister for Social Security and Disability . I be sure that he will look closely at that . we need our benefit system to match the reality of people ' s work life today . I very much commend the Secretary of State for the youth guarantee . in my constituency , many business have invest in the hi - tech industry of the future . however , I speak to young people and their family who be concerned about those young people get job on the first rung of the ladder . this year , there will be 3 , 000 undergraduate graduate from the University of Reading , and a further 3 , 000 people turn 18 in my constituency . what can the Secretary of State and her Department do for those young people to ensure that local job and training opportunity match the economic advantage of the area they be from ? I personally believe that we need to start much young than 18 , with good work experience and career advice in school . I have certainly see that in my constituency ; even in primary school , teacher have bring in people with different job , in different profession , to open child ' s eye and mind to the possibility of the world of work . we need to bring together everything that be happen in our school , college and the world of work . that be how we open up possibility for young people . I hope that the youth guarantee will do precisely that in local area and provide the opportunity that my hon . friend ' s young constituent need and deserve . I note that the White Paper be call " get Britain Working " , not " get the United Kingdom Working " . I appreciate there be devolution issue , but when I listen to the Secretary of State ' s statement , I find it very england - orientate . there be reference to national partnership , but how do the White Paper fit with get the United Kingdom work ? will there be Barnett consequential ? and will thing be leave up to the sometimes fail devolve institution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . Northern Ireland have one of the high rate of economic inactivity in the United Kingdom , which be a real concern for I , and , I be sure , for he . I have already speak to the Minister responsible . there be thing happen in Northern Ireland that we can look at to see whether there be lesson that could be learn for elsewhere in the country . we will always work closely with the devolved administration to ensure that our plan match people ' s need in every part of the country , because that be what his constituent and the country as a whole deserve . give the empty Opposition Benches , it look like the conservative party have adopt a policy of a three or two - day week to tackle the unemployment problem . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as chair of the Public and Commercial Services Union parliamentary group . from the tone take and the statement give today , my understanding be that the Government acknowledge that it will be support , not sanction , that will tackle this issue overall , and that that support will come from new employment centre in our constituency , staff by fully train , motivated and well - pay staff . the Secretary of State mention meeting business and mayor . may I ask that she also meet the trade union ? the PCS parliamentary group would welcome a meeting with she to talk through the roll - out of this programme , which will benefit both the staff and the recipient of their service . I thank my right hon . friend for his question . our 16 , 000 work coach and other frontline jobcentre staff be our big asset . some have work for the DWP for 25 or 30 year , because they care about their community . they have be stifle by a system that have an overwhelming focus on monitor and administer benefit . they know what their local area want and need . I speak to the head of the TUC yesterday about our plan . I be sure that either the Minister for Employment or I would be very happy to meet the PCS to talk about how we take these plan forward . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . some 13 % of job in Somerset be in manufacturing , and many of they be in the defence industry — in Thales in Templecombe , RNAS Yeovilton in my constituency , or Leonardo nearby . the manufacturing industry contribute £ 1 . 87 billion to our local economy , which be more than any other single industry . however , datum show that woman represent only 30 % of the STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — workforce . do the Secretary of State agree that we should be make more target intervention to support more woman into this important industry ? one hundred per cent . I could not agree more with the hon . Lady . we need to get more woman into manufacturing , engineering and all those STEM subject . I meet many apprentice yesterday on a visit to Peterborough college , include young woman who say , " this be for I . " More woman need to do this . they be great job and great career , with great pay — 100 % . it be wonderful to hear from my right hon . friend that Greater Manchester will be one of the trailblazer area for these vital reform . when I speak to business in Altrincham and Sale West , they tell I that the great challenge they face be recruit people to fill vacancy . can the Secretary of State outline a little far how these plan will ensure that business can recruit the skilled staff they need , and give young people in my constituency great opportunity in the process ? this be one of the big challenge that many employer face , and the reason that many of they be so keen on apprentice — as I be tell yesterday — be that they can mould young people with the specific skill that their company need . there be two point here . first , we be reform the apprenticeship levy and transform it into a new growth and skill levy , so that business have more flexibility in how they use it . secondly , many young people have miss out on those basic skill of math and English at GCSE , and can not even get on to the apprenticeship scheme . we need that training or those foundation apprenticeship , because they be a key part of the change that we want to make and to spread , through our youth guarantee , to area include Greater Manchester . the Workways team , which be run by Carmarthenshire county council in my constituency , do impressive work in facilitate access to critical skill and give career opportunity to people who be out of work . it have receive funding through the share prosperity fund , but that be due to end . can the Minister tell I how such vital organisation in Wales will benefit from her Department ' s plan ? the whole point of devolve responsibility and accountability to mayor and local leader be that they will know good the organisation that they need to involve in tackle economic inactivity , deliver the youth guarantee and embed jobcentre into local community . there be an additional £ 900 million in the share prosperity fund for 2025 - 26 , and that be a key element that we need to join up with the rest of these measure , but if the hon . Lady will write to I with more detailed information , I shall be happy to look at it . barrier to employment and a lack of workplace support for disabled people remain persistent challenge , along with inadequate social security payment for everyone regardless of employment status . can my right hon . friend reassure disabled people that the Government ' s new support measure will not be conditional on their be able to work , and that no one will be sanction for non - attendance at medical appointment ? sanction people because they use the NHS to make themselves as fit and healthy as possible be completely the wrong approach . I understand why disabled people be worried when they hear talk about help people into work or reform of sickness and disability benefit — they be worried because of what have happen over the past 14 year — but we be determined to break down those barrier to work . I think that many disabled people , give the right help and support and the right flexibility to work , could work and would want to work . that be what we be focus on , and that be what we be determined to deliver . a fantastic local social enterprise in my constituency have be help adult with disability back into work . it recently set up a caf é that be run entirely by adult with learn disability . how do the Department plan to take evidence from innovative organisation of that kind , and will the Secretary of State meet member of this organisation to find out about the work it have be do ? the reason I be so passionate about devolve responsibility and accountability to local area be that it be intend to engage precisely the kind of organisation that the hon . Gentleman have mention . for instance , I know the various organisation in Leicester but I do not know those in his constituency , so I believe that we need a much more localise system . if he will write to I with the detail , I shall be very keen to look at they . measure such as the young person ' s guarantee , which be already work successfully in Wales , be welcome . could the Secretary of State tell we a bit more about how she will work with the Welsh Government to deliver on the plan to make work pay ? as my hon . Friend say , there be already a young person ' s guarantee in Wales . the jobcentre reform will look different in Wales because the Welsh Government be responsible for the career service , but we want to work with they and with employer to overhaul their approach , to unleash the idea of our work coach and free up their time to focus on those who need help the most , and to ensure that our jobcentre become the first port of call , not the last , for employer to recruit their next star employee . we want employer to be much more join up with local skill support and health support . we will be have those conversation with the Welsh Government , and I be keen to receive my hon . friend ' s input as well . my constituent Diana have a daughter who have autism and live independently with some low - level support . she previously have a part - time role while live in Bath , with help from an employment support job coach , and she wish to do the same have now move to my constituency . however , she have find that much hard since move , and be yet to find similar support in Sussex . how will the Secretary of State tackle the postcode lottery that exist for those in need of extra help to get into employment ? I be very sorry to hear that Diana ' s daughter have not receive the level of support that she have before . it be clear that with the right support she will be able to engage with the world of work as well as lead an independent life , which be what she want . our reform be intend to ensure that such support be available everywhere . if the hon . Lady wish to forward the detail of that case , I shall be happy to take a look at they . it be vital that people be help into fulfil , well - pay work so that they can realise their potential . the Secretary of State rightly mention the importance that she place on discuss these change and reform with disabled people and disabled people ' s group . in the course of her discussion , will she ask those people and group about the work capability assessment ? many people who visit my constituency surgery feel degraded and demean by the WCA test , and many of the decision that be make turn out to be wrong and be successfully appeal against later . as my hon . friend will know , that be why the manifesto on which we be all elect say that we would reform or replace the work capability assessment . People wait for that assessment , and for the personal independence payment , for an average of between 14 and 18 week , and about 70 % of decision on the WCA and PIP can be overturn at tribunal . we need a system that get the decision right first time , because that be what disabled people need and deserve . the Secretary of State have give we some positive new spending plan today , but she have also give some mixed message to young people , with some investment on the one hand and new condition , which she call responsibility , on the other . will she commit herself to work with and empower young people to shape this new spending in local area and potentially challenge any new condition on support ? I be think in particular of neurodiverse young people , whose perspective be vital and who be worried about what this will mean for their wellbeing and life chance . the White Paper will provide for a new youth employment panel so that we can genuinely engage with young people in develop our proposal . I believe that it be vital for people to be in education , employment or training when they be young , because if they be not , the impact can be lifelong . to those who lack basic skill , today ' s world be brutal , and be unemployed when young can have a permanent impact on someone ' s job prospect and earning potential . alongside genuine new opportunity , there should be a responsibility to take they up — and do you know what ? I have never meet a young person who do not want to work , who do not want to obtain skill , who do not want a chance . we will fulfil our side of the bargain , and meet our responsibility to provide those opportunity . I believe that , just as they do when the last Labour Government set up the new deal for young people and the future job fund , young people will take up those chance . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the House to announce these measure . I be pleased to see that Cambridgeshire and Peterborough have be include as one of the area for trailblaze the new youth guarantee . on Friday , I hold a roundtable with local business , and one of the main theme that emerge be the lack of ability to recruit skilled people locally . will the Secretary of State explain how these measure will help to address the situation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I have already speak quite a lot about change to the apprenticeship levy , which be important , but there be many other thing that we can do . we have see real success with sector - base work academy , which be run by jobcentre . those be short , six - week course that give the specific skill an employer need , alongside guarantee work experience for the potential employee and a guarantee interview . they have have huge success for people look for work and for employer , because they get someone with the skill they actually need . we be committed to do that this year , and I hope we will roll it out far . that be just one of many example of how we can change our jobcentre and the DWP to well serve employer and their need . Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove have a huge repair backlog , which be report to cost £ 130 million . we have have building knock down because they be no long safe , medic wade through flood corridor and , most recently , a light fitting fall down in a delivery suite when the couple be in active labour . this situation have a massive impact on waiting list and , consequently , on how much my resident can work , include Anthony , who get in touch yesterday to say that he be wait for rehab after have a heart attack in June . can the Secretary of State confirm that any extra funding will go towards what local community need in order to get back to work ? many of my constituent be as keen as mustard to do so , but they be on waiting list . even the most wonderful work coach can do very little when somebody be await surgery . the hon . Lady raise a massively important point , and I be really sorry to hear about what her constituent be experience . we have to get people back to health and back to work . it be no wonder that so many people be out of work due to long - term sickness , give that waiting list be at near - record level . that be why my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be send in extra help , include doctor , to drive down waiting list in the area that need help the most . it be a no - brainer that we have to get people off waiting list to get they back to work . that be what I mean when I say that a healthy nation and a healthy workforce be two side of the same coin . Thurrock Lifestyle Solutions in my constituency be an excellent example of good practice in help disabled people enter and stay in the workplace . it be particularly successful because it embody the maxim , " nothing about we without we " , as it be run by , lead by and design by disabled people themselves . will the Secretary of State commit to take such example of good practice into consideration , and to ensure that the voice of disabled people and those with long - term health condition be put at the very heart of the strategy ? yes . what my hon . friend and many hon . member have highlight today be lot of individual example of really good working , but we be not join they up . they be not a central part of our employment system , but they absolutely should be . we know that we need extra investment , and the Chancellor have put £ 240 million into this endeavour , but we be not get the most out of the money we be spend because it be not co - ordinated and join up . that be what we mean by deliver investment and reform together . if it be locally lead and involve people who be do all this fantastic work , we can make a really big difference . I welcome the initiative and recognise that this be not a problem that have be create by the government ; it have be with we for a long time and start long before July this year . Northern Ireland have the high level of economic inactivity in the UK , despite the fact that I can think of many initiative in my own constituency for people with learn difficulty , for apprenticeship in certain sector , for the work of local college and so on . despite all that , the problem persist — and that be in a place with almost full employment . can the Secretary of State give an assurance that , despite a Budget that will make it more difficult to recruit , she can set objective for the number of people she believe can be bring from unemployment into work as a result of the initiative ? the right hon . Gentleman raise many important point . as I say early , it be absolutely the case that Northern Ireland have the high level of economic inactivity in the UK . we will set clear objective for our plan as we work with the devolved administration , and at local level , to get the level of economic inactivity down . that will be challenging because , as I say early , only 3 % of people who be economically inactive get back to work each year . we need to increase that , and the only way we can do it be by more fully join up work , health and skill support . too much of the focus of welfare reform over the past 14 year have be on the benefit system alone . clearly , the benefit system can incentivise or disincentivise work . we want it to incentivise work , but we also know that we need to join up work , health and skill if we be to get every part of the United Kingdom work again . this statement will run until 3 o ' clock , so short question and short answer would be very helpful . it be a sad reality that there be few people in work today than in 2019 , before the pandemic , so I be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge . when I talk to young people in Welwyn Hatfield , the thing that most concern I be that they often cite problem with their mental health as be a barrier to get into work or progress in work . can my right hon . friend reassure I that she will work in lockstep with the Health Secretary ? we on the Labour Benches understand that investment in a healthy workforce be a down payment on future prosperity for we all . in the interest of brevity , yes . St Neots in my constituency be the large town in Cambridgeshire , and it do not have a jobcentre ; resident have to travel up to Huntingdon each week for their benefit . in the absence of a jobcentre , social enterprise have take place . last week I attend the launch of the St Neots citizen hub , which aim to connect individual with opportunity and employer with talent . it provide a safe space in the heart of the community to address the fundamental issue of skill gap — include life skill — social isolation and financial insecurity , and it be a great example of the new model for jobcentre . will the Secretary of State ensure that staff at the jobcentre in Huntingdon can come down for one day a week so that resident do not have to keep make the journey up to Huntingdon ? that be a really important point . we want to see more of our work coach go to where people be , rather than always expect they to come in . if all that help and support be be provide at the St Neots citizen hub , it sound like exactly the sort of place where our work coach should be base , and I will certainly bring that up with they . these change be fantastic and be much need to get Britain back to work after 14 year of dismissal and neglect of real life and real people under the last government . however , area such as Portsmouth North do not have a devolution deal yet . can the Secretary of State provide detail on how those not in work in Portsmouth North will be able to get support and get back into work , and on how we can make our jobcentre accessible , to lift child out of poverty and to lift people back into the community ? I reassure my hon . friend that it be the same for I and my city — we do not have a devolution deal . we be overhaul our jobcentre , and tackle economic inactivity with local " get Britain work " plan and our youth guarantee . regardless of whether people be part of a mayoral or combined authority , that work will be lead locally , include through the local council . we be determined to deliver in every corner of the country , because we believe that everybody deserve an opportunity to work . that be what our country need to get grow again . Steven Tysoe from east Devon use to be a metropolitan police officer in London , and he show I footage of his involvement in the riot in the capital over a decade ago . he be severely injure and be regard by the DWP as disabled . under the new right of disabled people to work , will the Secretary of State ensure that public servant who have be injure in the line of duty will not get hound repeatedly by assessor ? I do not want to see people be hound . if they be able to work , I want they to get the support they need to do that . that be the big challenge that we face . there be more disabled people work than ever before , but for many other their condition might fluctuate and the world of work and the benefit system need to understand that . I be interested in provide people with support not hound they — there should of course be condition and responsibility within the social security system , as have be the case since it be set up — and I hope that be not happen to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . if it be , perhaps he will write and tell I more about it . those who can work should work , but so should the support service . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement on transform that public service , which embrace many of the principle of the work do by the Local Government Association on " Work Local " . in Telford and Wrekin , where I be council leader , we be drive down youth unemployment under the previous Government , but we be expect to pay a charge to the DWP to share datum . will the Secretary of State assure I that that will not happen under these plan to work local ? it seem to I to be completely the wrong approach to put barrier in the way of datum sharing . some of the good innovation — I be think particularly of Barnsley council — have share datum between the health service , the jobcentre and the DWP about people face barrier to work and what need to happen to put that right . we have to enable that to happen everywhere . I want to tear down those barrier , not put more up , so I will definitely take away that issue . I welcome the innovation and energy in the White Paper . it will make a huge difference to people and business across the country . in relation to the welcome announcement of eight trailblazer scheme , can the Secretary of State set out how young people in area without mayoral combined authority will see support , include my resident in Dartford and across the Thames estuary , where we want to see the fair growth that the Government be offer ? I 100 % want young people , and all my hon . friend ' s constituent in Dartford , to have the same chance . as I say early , I do not have a combine authority in my city , so I be acutely aware of this issue . this will be for local council to lead . they will be develop local " get Britain work " plan . they will be the responsible and accountable body over our youth guarantee . we have to deliver this everywhere because talent be everywhere but opportunity be not , and that be what we all come into politic to change . this be a momentous White Paper by a momentous Secretary of State . yesterday , I have the great privilege to take my right hon . friend to Peterborough college to meet excellent business and apprentice do brilliant work , include EML , Baker Perkins , Taylor Rose , Codem and Gen Phoenix . those business and learner be excel in a system that have fail too many of our young people . apprenticeship be down and youth unemployment be up in my city . can my right hon . friend tell we how quickly we can get go on these new trailblazer ? I thank my hon . friend for an amazing visit yesterday , and I hope he will pass on my thank to Rachel at the local college and to all the local business and apprentice . I agree with he : the number of apprenticeship start for young people drop by 38 % under the previous Government ' s apprenticeship levy , and in Peterborough more than 1 , 350 young people be claim benefit , with the majority not in work , so we must act swiftly , and we will . these programme be start immediately in the new year . I look forward to work with he and all those business and the college in Peterborough to put our plan into action , because we be determined to deliver . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and to the work that I do prior to prior to enter this place . it be difficult enough for a disabled person to enter employment ; it be even more difficult for a disabled person to remain in employment if the employer be not aware of or not accommodate their disability and the reasonable adjustment that they might need . within the debate on this White Paper , will the Secretary of State ensure that the work of exemplar employer be pick up and credit ? there must be a recognition of the value that disabled people can bring to all workplace . I also invite she to come and meet my old team in the employability service within NHS Lanarkshire , who have work not just with Project Search but with disabled — order . I call the Secretary of State . the issue that my hon . friend raise be so important , and Sir Charlie Mayfield , who will be run our " keep Britain Working " review , will indeed look at good practice among some great employer who understand what need to happen to help disabled people get work and stay in work . if my hon . friend write to I about that exemplar working , I will make sure that he see it . yesterday I be proud to host a reception from the Royal National Institute of Blind People , at which I hear that , across the UK , people with fail eyesight be not get the support they need from the health service , from local authority or from employer , and that they be fall out of work because of this . can this be address as part of the programme be outline today ? we will certainly speak to the RNIB to ensure that those point be include as we take our " get Britain work " White Paper forward . if we search the record of this place , we see the phrase " no child leave behind " mention over and over again , but during the pandemic , child be leave behind . they have be wash up on the shore of social work , of the police sometimes , and of childhood mental health service , and I know from visit my jobcentre in Barrhead that they be now wash up on its shore as well . what will this White Paper do to help that covid generation who be leave behind ? when I visit my jobcentre in Leicester after be appoint to the work and pension role in opposition , the very first thing its manager say to I be that the big problem be young people and mental health — the covid generation . they deserve more opportunity to earn and to learn . the country must do this . for I , the most concerning problem that we face be the rapid increase in young people not in education , training or employment . we know that we can deliver the youth guarantee , as we do the new deal for young people and the future job fund when we be last in government . this be a version of that , face the problem of today and tomorrow to give that pandemic generation the chance and choice they need to build a well life . may I start by welcome the statement and the White Paper ? the Secretary of State have confirm that we be the party of work . there be so much good stuff in the statement and the White Paper , include reform to jobcentre , the youth guarantee and join - up health and job support , but I particularly welcome the talk of a right to work . disabled constituent tell I that they be desperate to get into employment but can not find employer who meet their need . without know the specific , what general assurance can my right hon . friend give those constituent that they will be able to find work under this White Paper ? this Government understand the importance of whether the benefit system incentivise or disincentivise work , but we must also address people ' s skill , the barrier to work , include for disabled people , and the need to work much more closely with employer so that they understand the benefit of keep people in work or get they back to work . this be a huge agenda , and I think the DWP have be too centralised and too siloe in not join up all this support . our work coach be desperate to make this happen , and under these reform programme that be exactly what we will do . do my right hon . friend agree that support people into work , through Government action nationally and , of course , locally , be an important part of be pro - business ? will she expand briefly on how the measure she have set out will benefit business of all size in my constituency , and will she reassure they that we be not only the party of work but a pro - business party ? business in Rugby and across the country always say that they be desperate to recruit people with the right skill . if they do not have the right people , they will not be able to expand and thrive . this be a pro - business strategy to get Britain work again , so that we get Britain grow again . my hon . friend the Minister for Employment say that we be the human resource department of the growth mission . I hope business in Rugby will see that and work with we to make sure we get it right . I warmly congratulate the Secretary of State on all her hard work to deliver this White Paper , which prove not only that hers be a Department for work but that Labour be the party of work . whereas , judge from the sea of green opposite , the Tories be a party of slacker . I warmly welcome the fact that Greater Manchester be one of the trailblazer area . what be the Secretary of State most excited about in Andy Burnham ' s plan to help tackle this massive problem in Greater Manchester ? under Andy Burnham ' s leadership , Greater Manchester be pioneer some of the change that we want to see by fundamentally join up work , health and skill support , by commission new talking therapy service for people seek work , and by create a new service to broker connection between jobseeker and employer . this will make sure that employer get the staff they need while also make the necessary adjustment . we want to build on that and expand it , because we be indeed the party of work . we believe that work bring self - respect , dignity , control and improve living standard . I be very proud of that , and I hope and believe that these reform will deliver in every corner of this great nation , so that we invest not just in Great Britain but in great Britons — this country ' s great asset . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question on 28 October , the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) ask the Foreign Secretary whether he believe a genocide be take place in the middle east . in his reply , the Foreign Secretary appear to suggest not , partly because not enough people have lose their life . Madam Deputy Speaker , I understand that you be not responsible for answer from the Dispatch Box , which be why , on 31 October , I write to the Foreign Secretary seek urgent clarification of what he mean . on 1 November , I also write to the Attorney General ask that he immediately clarify the Government ' s position and confirm that there have be no change in how the UK Government interpret the genocide convention . as of this afternoon , I have have no reply to my correspondence from either the Foreign Secretary or the Attorney General . I therefore seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how I can get a reply to what I and many other regard as a matter of the utmost importance . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . he be absolutely correct when he say that I be not responsible for the content of Ministers ' answer ; nor indeed be I for their response to correspondence from hon . member . however , I must say that all hon . member be entitle to expect timely response to their letter to Ministers , and I be sure those on the Treasury Bench will have note his comment this afternoon . treatment of Terminal Illness Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the liability of practitioner , and of the organisation which employ the practitioner , where a practitioner prescribe an unlicensed medicine to or carry out a non - standard treatment on a person who be terminally ill ; to make provision about the import , storage and use of equipment and unlicensed medicine for the purpose of such prescription or such treatment ; and for connected purpose . advance in medical science wait for no man or woman — unless , of course , they be one of the thousand of people in the UK each year diagnose with a rare cancer . in that case , they be likely to receive NHS treatment that have remain unchanged for more than 30 year , with no improvement in outcome , no access to drug trial and no access to the huge progress that have be make in individualised cancer vaccine or immunotherapy . it do not have to be that way . in Germany , medical practitioner can offer experimental treatment to patient with a terminal diagnosis without fear that they , or the organisation that employ they , will be hold liable or penalise . they can offer patient a lifeline that doctor in the UK be not allow to offer . I be introduce this Bill to protect clinician in the same way and to allow patient access to the late medical treatment . in truth , we know this ten - minute rule Bill have no prospect of become law . however , it serve another purpose : to give a voice to the thousand of terminally ill patient and the ordeal they be force to endure in search of a lifeline ; to expose the culture of fear among medical professional in the NHS surround individualised treatment ; and to suggest a well way forward . excuse my german pronunciation , but Individuelle Heilversuche be the german law that allow doctor to provide personalised , individual treatment plan . when a terminally ill patient have run out of traditional treatment option , medical practitioner can use treatment that have not be fully approve , or that have be approve for other purpose , as part of individual treatment programme . they be able to prescribe drug for off - label use — drug that be know to save life but be not yet available to patient with a specific condition . how can it be right not to offer the same right to patient in the UK ? instead , the NHS — and healthcare in general — abandon they to die when the outdated and inadequate standard care fail . understandably , many fight and take the hard choice to travel internationally — in this case , to Germany — to find the treatment deny to they in their own country . I know this path , as I walk it with my sister . I hold her head as she be sick into a bin on the concourse at Heathrow airport ' s terminal 5 . I obscure she from flight attendant in fear that they would take she off the plane , and that we would not get to D ü sseldorf . one night , I wonder how I would explain her death in a foreign city , in a country where I do not speak the language or understand the emergency care . but I would do it all again , because I want to extend her life and there be nothing for she here in the UK . we be lucky that we could pay for it . thousand of people be currently follow the same difficult path . for some , it be hard because they do not have the money . at a time of great distress , they be force to sell their home , run marathon or bake cake to fund the treatment their love one need . many be force to travel alone because their partner can not afford to go with they or can not afford to take their child . Laura be diagnose with a glioblastoma when she be just 18 . a first - year student at King ' s College London , she be tell that she have just 12 month to live under the standard care available through the NHS . for Laura ' s family , this be just not good enough . in Germany , they find an individualised treatment plan that help Laura to live four and a half year past her diagnosis , defy the mere 12 month that oncologist in the UK have give she . before she lose her battle with cancer , Laura complete her degree and a wonderful bucket list , include cross the equator , present the weather and meet Michelle Obama . this decision to travel overseas for highly expensive treatment be not to be take lightly , but I ask the House the same question that Laura ' s indomitable mum , Nicola , ask her oncologist , " what would you do if this be your child ? " when Zoe , a 35 - year - old secondary school teacher with two young son , be diagnose with a grade 4 cancer , she find the NHS treatment available seem old - fashioned and out of date . her oncologist be against try anything different , despite tell she she have just 15 month to live . Zoe be able to access experimental treatment in Germany — treatment that research have since highlight result in an increase in survival time . she pass away two year after her diagnosis , but critically be able to access treatment that do not affect her quality of life , something that can not be say for the treatment that would have be available in the UK . Zoe ' s husband tell I : " when you be hand a death sentence , your risk appetite change . " Zoe , along with the countless other patient who have reach out to I with a range of cancer and terminal illness , whose story I wish I could share with the House , should never have have to travel for her treatment . Margaret should never have have to travel . we know that in many case individual treatment have be prove to lead to people survive for far long than their original prognosis . I can say with confidence that it do so for Margaret . it provide hope that we simply do not get from our current health system . that be why I propose we extend the opportunity of individual treatment programme to the thousand of people with a terminal diagnosis in the UK . we must end the cruel practice of force our most vulnerable to travel overseas to access well care , at huge expense . it be clear that legislation be need to protect our doctor and to allow they to progress with the good standard of care . at the very least , we need to end the culture of fear among medical professional in this country with regard to experimental and individual treatment , so that they can inform their patient of option that could lengthen their life expectancy . as Zoe ' s husband say to I : " patient do not want the fatalism that many in this field have . realism be fine , but no - one have the right to remove hope from a patient . " this Bill would bring that hope back to thousand of people . question put and agree to . order , that Dame Siobhain McDonagh , Jim Shannon , Uma Kumaran , Peter Lamb , Luke Murphy , Rachael Maskell , Tonia Antoniazzi , Valerie Vaz , Mary Glindon , Sorcha Eastwood , Helena Dollimore and Natasha Irons present the Bill . Dame Siobhain McDonagh accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January , and to be print ( Bill 139 ) . Tobacco and Vapes Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . today , across the UK , 350 young people age 25 and under will take up smoking . it be a decision that the vast majority will later regret . they will try to quit again and again , but most will not be able to break their addiction . they will suffer stroke , diabete , heart disease , cancer , stillbirth , dementia or asthma as a direct result of smoking . for two in three of those young people , the habit they be begin today will eventually kill they . smoking take 80 , 000 life a year and cause one in four death from cancer in England , a hospital admission almost every minute and 100 GP appointment an hour . it be the lead cause of sickness , disability and death in our country . and today , member of this House can consign it to the history book . the Bill before the House will raise the legal age of the purchase of tobacco by one year every year , create the first smokefree generation and , eventually , a smokefree nation . the Bill will enable the Government to extend the current indoor smoking ban to certain outdoor setting , and we will consult on ban smoke outside school and hospital and in playground , protect child and vulnerable people from the harm of second - hand smoke . the Bill will come down on the vaping industry like a ton of brick , to prevent a new generation of child and young people from get hooked on nicotine . take together , these measure add up to the most significant public health intervention in a generation . they be a giant leap in this Government ' s mission to build a healthy society and , in do so , they will help to build a more healthy economy too . can the Secretary of State imagine the plight of a shop assistant , some decade hence , when a middle - aged or elderly person present themselves seek to buy a packet of cigarette ? be that shop assistant really expect to demand their bone fide ? I can not only imagine it , but I recently experience a similar situation . there I be in Barkingside Sainsbury ' s one evening , only week ago , buy a bottle of wine to have with dinner and , to my surprise , I be ask for my ID . I be afraid it be just a burden that those of we with youthful vim and vigour in our early 40 have to bear , and it be a price I be willing to pay — for good moisturiser . however , there be a serious point . along with many other that I be sure we will encounter during the passage of the Bill , this be one of the cynical argument be deploy by the mendacious smoking lobby , which would have we believe that , decade hence , there will be people who be at the margin — one aged 41 and one aged 40 , for example — be ask for ID on the sale of cigarette . the point be that the Bill will create a smokefree generation . young people grow up in our country today will not be smoker , because we will have stop the start . we will do everything we can to support adult who be currently smoke , because the vast majority want to break the habit but struggle to do so . if only proof of age be still ask of I . the Secretary of State know that I support the Bill and will vote for it this evening , but he will know that rural pub be increasingly marginal in their operation . he have refer to further power , post consultation , that may stop smoke outside in particular place once the Bill be on the statute book . will he put the mind of rural mp , from across the House , at rest by say that he do not envisage at any point , either now or post - Royal Assent , the inclusion of a ban on smoke outside rural pub ? that would be a further nail in their business model at a time when we need they . I be go to address that point later in my speech , but let I address it now . it be not often that a Government comment on leak or welcome the event follow a leak ; I do not want to encourage future leak , either . however , it be well known and a matter of accurate reporting , in this case , that we be consider an extension of the ban on outdoor smoking to include outdoor hospitality , include pub , as the hon . Gentleman mention . because of that leak , representation be hear from member from across the House , include the hon . Gentleman , my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) and other . we take those representation very seriously because we know the hospitality industry have be through a torrid time , and not just in rural community . I accept that rural pub face a big challenge , but even high street pub in town and city be struggle . our approach to public health always have to weigh up the upside benefit to public health against the downside consequence elsewhere . it be not in the national interest to see our high street far suffer , so I reassure the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and the hospitality industry — although I think it feel reassure on this already — that we will not be consult on extend the power to outdoor hospitality space . I hope that reassure people , as we embark on consultation on the measure that I be outline today , that the Government listen , engage and consult seriously . consultation be genuine with this Government . I will not comment on how young I look , but I still get ask for ID when buy non - alcoholic wine . it be 10 year since the smoking ban come into operation and there be 1 . 9 million few smoker in the UK . do that show the Secretary of State the difference that a government that take the matter seriously can make ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be really proud of the impact that the last Labour Government make in reduce smoking harm and the prevalence of smoking in our country . that bring I on to the next point that I want to make . President Truman famously say that it be amazing what you can accomplish " if you do not care who get the credit . " when I first sit down with Rachel Sylvester of the Times in January 2023 and fly a kite to start a debate that a Labour Government might introduce a ban on child and young people today ever buy cigarette , of the type introduce by our sister party in New Zealand , I be not necessarily convince my own side would buy it , but I think it be a debate worth have . I never imagine , in a million year , that I would tune into a Conservative party conference speech by a conservative Prime Minister announce his intention to legislate for such a ban . I will do something I do not often do with conservative party conference speech and quote extensively — and approvingly — what the then Prime Minister say . " as Prime Minister I have an obligation to do what I think be the right thing for our country in the long term . and as Conservatives , we have never shirk that responsibility . " I say that bit through gritted tooth . " we have always be at the front of society , lead it — " who write this ? " and when we have the tool at our disposal … to do for our child what we all , in our heart of heart , know be right , we must act , we must lead … we must put the next generation first . " in that spirit , I pay tribute to the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , for pick up the proposal and run with it despite opposition from his own party . that take courage . while we have take step to improve this Bill compare with the one put forward by the previous Government , I hope that hon . and right hon . member on the conservative Benches will follow his lead , show that the one nation tradition still have a constituency in the modern conservative party , and vote for this Bill in the national interest . the Darzi investigation into the NHS set out the twin challenge face I , my Department and this Government . the national health service be break ; it be go through the bad crisis in its history . at the point we come into office , waiting list stand at 7 . 6 million . we have bad cancer survival rate than most comparable country , ambulance not arrive on time , the number of GPs fall and dentistry desert across the country . some of the most shocking finding in Lord Darzi ' s report , however , be about not the sickness in our NHS , but the sickness in our nation . child be less healthy today than they be a decade ago . life expectancy be extend by three and a half year over the course of the last Labour Government , but in the past 14 year , it have grow by just four month . brit now live short life than people in any other country in western Europe , and we spend few year live in good health , become sicker soon . those be huge cost , bear by all of we as individual . it mean less time in which we be able to live our life to the full , to do all the thing we love and to spend time with the people we love . Sickness be force many of we out of work long before retirement age , leave we dependent on welfare , rid we of the purpose and belong that work provide , and for everyone else , it mean high cost to we as taxpayer . our sick society be hold back our economy , and that be why we should act . will the Secretary of State give way ? I give way to the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . in the spirit of cross - party working , I want to congratulate member on the Conservative Benches for decide , when the former Prime Minister put this policy forward , that it be a priority . it show how important it be that no . 10 get behind this kind of thing , and I hope we learn that lesson for the Government ' s mission . I gently say , however , that it be not just the evil tobacco lobby that have concern about the age escalator . I completely agree with everything that the Secretary of State say , but if smoking be that much of an issue , why be we not just ban it for those under an age of , say , 25 ? that would have be another way to go . what be the thinking behind an age escalator , as oppose to a ban for those under a particular age so that people do not need new id every time ? I recognise that there be people who have the freedom and the liberty to smoke today , the vast majority of whom , by the way , want to stop and struggle to do so . that be why we be announce support to enable people to do that , with £ 70 million of investment in smoking cessation service . that be important , but for a future where people be no long able to smoke , a phase approach be the right thing to do . it be also essential for the health of the individual , the nation and our economy . since 2018 , our productivity have drop by £ 25 billion due to worsen health alone . some 900 , 000 more people be off work than would have be on pre - pandemic trend . that be more people than be employ by Tesco , Sainsbury ' s and Asda put together . smoke alone account for more than £ 18 billion in lose productivity . the rise tide of ill health , couple with our age society , present an existential challenge to our health service . if we do not act now , ever - increase demand for healthcare threaten to overwhelm and bankrupt the NHS . that be the choice that we face . surely the Secretary of State realise that ban thing rarely work . when tobacco be ban in South Africa during the covid pandemic , 95 % of the trade go underground . surely we should be promote the concept of freedom with responsibility and allow people to make choice about their own life . I be glad that he go shop in Barkingside — he should go and speak to the shopkeeper in Collier Row , where local retailer will lose a lot of potential business if the ban come in . I be grateful for the intervention , because I anticipate that there will be similar argument make from the Opposition Benches , particularly from a right - wing libertarian perspective . I want to engage seriously with those argument . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will just respond to the point make by the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) . there be no liberty in addiction ; there be no freedom in addiction . the logical extension of the libertarian argument the hon . Gentleman put forward would be the end of the ban on indoor smoking . if we should take a live and let live approach , why not legalise cannabis ? why not legalise cocaine ? we prescribe certain harmful substance , and there be , I think , an unanswerable case on tobacco because it be uniquely addictive and uniquely harmful . that be why we will take a tough approach with this harmful substance than we would with something such as alcohol , or other harm such as gambling . the Secretary of State steal my line when he say that there be no freedom in addiction . I just want to thank he for his pragmatic approach to the hospitality industry , which have make representation to I on this matter . may I also impress on he that vape be a valuable quit aid for many adult , but many young people be now take to vaping when they have never actually smoke at all ? can he say a little bit more about how we will address that ? I will certainly come on to the action that we be take on vaping , and the case for it . I welcome the contribution that my hon . friend have make in his first few month as a Member of this House . he bring enormous expertise and experience , particularly on health , which we very much value here in the Chamber . one choice would be to continue pay an ever heavy price for failure . that be the road that we be head down , under the previous Government . our NHS already take £ 4 for every £ 10 spend by the Government day to day . we be on course to go from be a nation with a national health service to a health service with a nation attach to it . it be project that by the end of this Parliament , 4 . 3 million people will be on sickness benefit if we fail to act . smoking could cause 300 , 000 patient to be diagnose with cancer over the next five year , include 3 , 000 for whom that be the result of exposure to second - hand smoke . that be what happen if we only ever treat the symptom of ill health . we end up spend more on the NHS than ever before , but with bad care for patient , a ballooning welfare bill due to more and more people be out of work , stagnant economic growth , and the heavy tax burden in 70 year . in short , we will be pay more , but get less . Britain be like a ship with a hole . we be constantly battle to chuck enough water overboard to keep we afloat , as more and more flood in . we must break out of this cycle . Britain can break out of this cycle , but only if we be serious about tackle the cause of ill health , and shift our focus from treat the symptom to prevent they . plug the hole in the ship be how we get back to growth , how we reduce the burden of taxation , and how we ensure that this government can intrude more lightly on people ' s life . the argument that the Secretary of State put forward be essentially one for ban smoke altogether . what he say early be misleading ; he suggest that people of a particular age group will not be able to smoke . they will not be able to buy cigarette , but they can still smoke . they can cadge cigarette off other people . be this not a half - bake measure ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be not accuse I of mislead the House . the argument that he put forward be use against all sort of law and prohibition . Most people in this country be law - abide citizen who follow the law . in my constituency today , there will be people dump fridge and mattress on street corner — fly - tipping — because they be irresponsible and not law - abide citizen . we will not always catch they , either through closed - circuit television or local authority enforcement , but that do not mean that we should not tackle they when they do those thing . by phase in a generational smoking ban , we be take a measured and reasonable way of create a smokefree country . that be the right way to proceed , and it be sensible . I know that he do not agree , but he must accept the trade - off — the choice that he be make for the Opposition . first , he be accept that people will pay a high price for their healthcare , either through taxis , if he still believe in the national health service , or through the cost to the individual of their healthcare . secondly , he must concede that , through the harm cause by smoking , he be fuel welfare dependency . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have a point when she say early that Labour be the party of work , and the Conservatives be the party of welfare . that be the logical conclusion of the hon . Gentleman ' s opposition . I congratulate my right hon . friend on introduce this once - in - a generation public health measure . as he acknowledge , too many people be die young from the effect of smoking . they be lose out on be grandparent and on the opportunity to live a long and healthy life . smoking be a lead cause of health inequality , so do he agree that the proposal will help close the shocking gap in life expectancy between the rich and poor ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be afraid that one of my first experience of death be watch my grandmother die a very long , slow , painful death from lung cancer as a result of a life of chain smoking . that be the consequence of this cruel addiction . People who start smoke come to regret it . they struggle to stop , and I be afraid that the steal year that they could have spend with child and grandchild be only part of the cost . part of my argument today , particularly to some Opposition Members , be about well use of public money and reduce the taxation burden . other argument , too , may have some currency with member who might be oppose to these measure for libertarian reason . we should not forget for a moment the impact of this cruel addiction and the harm cause by smoke on people ' s quality of life , family life , and memory . rise — I must make progress , otherwise we will not hear from anyone else in this debate — and I think that it will be a debate . take action require a reform government who be unafraid to take on the orthodoxy of both the right and the left . as I say , my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary be today propose radical reform to the welfare system . early this month , I set out a package of reform to drive well productivity in the NHS . today , we be propose the big public health reform in a generation : phase out smoke for the next generation by raise the legal age at which tobacco can be sell by one year every year , so that anyone age 15 and under today will never legally be sell cigarette . that will phase out smoke altogether . almost 20 year ago , the last Labour Government introduce the ban on smoke indoor in public place , as my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) say . we hear many of the same argument , frankly , from opponent of that measure as we hear from opponent of the Bill today . they be free to correct I if I be wrong , but I do not think that Opposition Members who oppose the Bill be also propose scrap the indoor smoking ban . we have political consensus on the issue because of its success . the year after the ban come into force in 2007 , hospital admission for heart attack drop by 1 , 200 . admission for child with asthma have be rise by 5 % a year before the ban . after it be introduce , admission fall by 18 % in just three year . since 2007 , smoking rate have be cut by over a third , and as our understanding of second - hand smoke grow , the ban spark a cultural change . People no long think it acceptable to smoke in front of their child , and many step outside , even in their own home . it be time to build on that success . no smoker intend to cause harm to other , but that be unintentionally what they do through second - hand smoke . the harm from second - hand smoke be less than from actively smoking , but the evidence show they be still substantial . if people can smell smoke , they be inhale it . smoke near school and playground expose child to smoke . hospital , by definition , have high number of medically vulnerable people on their ground . the Bill will allow Government to extend the ban on indoor smoking to certain outdoor setting , and we will consult on ban smoke outside school , playground and hospital to protect child and the most vulnerable . as we act to prevent harm from smoking , we must also tackle the rise problem of youth vaping . it have more than double in the last five year , and one in four 11 to 15 - year - old try vape last year . a new generation of child be get hook on nicotine , and there should be no doubt about the cause , and no illusion that this have happen by accident . on any high street in the country , we can see shop window fill with brightly coloured packaging for vape , with flavour like blue razz lemonade and tongue twister sour apple . those product be design , make , package , market and sell deliberately to child . this industry have cynically target its harmful product to kid . action be long overdue . we promise to stamp out youth vape in our manifesto , and the Bill deliver the change that we promise . it will close loophole that allow vape to be sell or give away to child , provide power to regulate the flavour , packaging and display of vape , and introduce on - the - spot fine of £ 200 for under - age sale . just as we take action on the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco product , we will bring the law into line for vape product , too . I do not know whether the Secretary of State will still be in the Chamber when I talk about Spice - spike vape . I see a gap in the Bill : it do not talk about refill . the harmful practice of spike vape with Spice come from the refill . I hope that the Government will listen to my concern and be flexible , as they have already show themselves to be in other place . perhaps , during the passage of the Bill , we can include something about refill . would he agree to that ? we want to work in a genuinely collaborative and cross - party way , and I know that be true right across the House . as I look at the Opposition Benches , include Conservative Benches , I see long - stand campaigner for action on smoking and vaping . we want to listen and engage . I feel strongly about the matter , as do the Prime Minister . in our manifesto , we set out Labour ' s mission to improve the health of the nation . we will be far well serve as a country if this be a truly national mission , and if we come together in common cause for action on public health . rise — in that spirit , I will give way to the hon . gentleman — and then to some of my hon . friend . can the Secretary of State tell we if there be any place for vape as a step - down , in the context of the addictive aspect of tobacco ? I seem to remember that when vaping first come along , it be herald as a way to help wean people from their tobacco addiction . sadly , it have turn into something else , as he describe , and start child on the road towards nicotine addiction , but do it have a role as a step - down ? the right hon . member be right to make that distinction . as a stop - smoke tool , vaping have a part to play . for smoker , vaping be a well alternative — a route away from smoking . we do not want to throw the baby out with the bathwater . what we be interested in tackle be the scourge of youth vaping and the extent to which young people have be cynically addict . it be important to say that we do not yet know the full extent of the harm cause by vape , but we do know two thing : first , it be well to vape than to smoke — that be why we be strike the balance in this legislation — and secondly , vape be harmful . ask any teacher in the country ; they will talk about the sign of nicotine addiction that they see in their pupil , and about have to monitor school toilet to stop child congregate to vape . it be urgent and necessary to act today to protect this generation of kid from a new addiction , and that be exactly what we will do . as an ear , nose and throat surgeon , I can attest to the absolutely desperate trouble that cigarette have cause over many generation . implement this measure be one of the good thing that this Parliament could possibly do , and I expect that the measure will be widely support all over the House . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for introduce it . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention , not least because of the expertise that he bring to the House as a clinician . we be well serve by his expertise in debate on the health of the nation . opposite I sit many opponent of the Bill and of the Government ' s prevention agenda . I acknowledge that their opposition be base on genuine , sincere belief about the limit of government and the size of the state , but I appeal to they by say that the Bill be in the national interest and , ironically , in their ideological interest . I thank the Secretary of State for make a number of time the point that this be a truly national Bill that apply across the United Kingdom . I thank he for include Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales in the measure . when we in this place consider measure to promote health , we should do so equally for the entirety of the United Kingdom . that be a very helpful intervention because it give I the opportunity to say thank you to my counterpart in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . this be a genuinely four - nation Bill , and through it , we have an opportunity to create a smokefree generation in every corner of our country . I say to people who have an ideological objection to the Bill that if they believe in low taxis , as they say they do , and in maintain a national health service , as they say they do , they can not duck this simple equation : an age population plus a sicker society equal more spending on the NHS , pay through high taxis . the Bill be just one measure , but it will make a significant difference to the health of our society , and to the balance of that equation . the question that opponent of the Bill must answer be this : if they want our health and care service to continue have to spend £ 3 billion every year on the symptom of smoking , be they willing to accept that that mean high taxis or high healthcare charge for their constituent ? be they happy for their constituent to shoulder the welfare bill for smoker fall out of the workforce ? those be the consequence of what we be vote on today . high taxis and high welfare be not the labour way . there be argument about liberty from those who oppose base on libertarian belief . they say that the state should not deny individual the choice to smoke if they want to , but three quarter of smoker want to stop and wish they have never start . it take a smoker an average of 30 attempt to quit before they manage it . by definition , an addict be not free ; there be no choice , no liberty and no freedom in addiction . nor be choice afford to anyone inhale second - hand smoke . tobacco be not only highly addictive but uniquely harmful . yes , some smoker can quit , but most who want to can not . those who have help to quit be three time more likely to succeed . that be why the Government be , as I say , invest £ 70 million in smoking cessation service — an investment that will pay for itself several time over — but prevention be well than cure , and that be why we be take action , through the Bill , to stop the start . in conclusion , this Bill mark the start of a decade in which we will shift the focus of healthcare from treatment to prevention ; take serious action on not just smoke , but obesity ; reform the NHS , so that it catch problem early and give patient the tool that they need to stay out of hospital ; harness the revolution take place in life science ; and fundamentally transform the NHS , so that it predict illness and prevent it from ever take hold . that be the future available to we , and it be the future we must realise if we be go to put our welfare system , health service and public finance on a sustainable footing . it start with this Bill . smoker be more likely to need nhs service , be admit to hospital , drop out of the workforce and on to welfare , and need social care year early than if they do not smoke . by take the measure set out in the Bill , we be put the UK on the road to become smokefree , build a healthy , wealthy nation with a health service fit for the future and lead the world as we do so . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I do not always do this , but I express my gratitude to the Secretary of State for the tone he have adopt in this debate and for recognise the strongly and sincerely hold view of right hon . and hon . member on both side of it . I be also grateful to he for be typically willing to share with the House in support of his point something as personal as what happen to his grandmother . sadly , it will not surprise he that no one ask I for my ID these day — I will have to take some tip from he on the moisturiser that he use . [ interruption . ] I will ignore the unkind comment that he have just make . in many way , this Bill be like the curate ' s egg : it be good in part — indeed , it be good in many part — and start from a place of good intention . as the Secretary of State set out , smoking have a huge cost to society and to individual . we know that smoking be the single big entirely preventable cause of ill health , death and disability in this country , and we see in our NHS the impact of smoking every day . it be responsible for around 80 , 000 death in the UK each year and be estimate to cost the NHS and social care more than £ 3 billion a year , include 75 , 000 gp appointment every month . as the Secretary of State say , almost every minute someone be admit to hospital because of smoking . it substantially increase the risk of many major health condition throughout people ' s life , such as stroke , diabete , heart disease , stillbirth , cancer , dementia and asthma . as the Secretary of State have allude to in the past , it be often people in more deprive area who have high smoking rate , low healthy life expectancy and high mortality rate link to smoking . some 230 , 000 household be estimate to live in smoking - induce poverty , and child of smoker be three time as likely to start to smoke , potentially perpetuate the cycle . over 80 % of smoker start before they turn 20 — many start as child — yet more than half of current smoker want to quit ; as the Secretary of State say , three quarter say that they would never have start smoke if they have the choice again . let I be clear : reduce smoking , give people the information and support to quit , and help to protect child in particular be worthy ambition . among all the doom and gloom , there be some positive news : smoking rate be fall anyway . while around 6 million people in the UK smoke , the number of smoker have be fall for decade . in 2023 , just 10 . 5 % of people age 16 and over smoke , compare with 20 . 3 % in 2010 , 20 . 7 % in 2000 and 30 % a decade before that in 1990 . likewise , the number of child who smoke be fall . while this trend be welcome , it be understandable that there be a strong desire to see continued action to far drive down the prevalence of smoking and tackle the recent rise in vaping among non - smoker , especially among young people , and to protect future generation . as be evidence by the intervention that the Secretary of State kindly take from many hon . member , I be sure that many of we in the House have be alarm by the surge in youth vaping , which have double in the past five year . despite it already be illegal to sell nicotine vape to under - 18 , a quarter of child try vape in 2023 . while nicotine vape can and do play an important part in help adult to quit smoking , we be clear that child who do not smoke should not take up vaping . the nicotine content make those product highly addictive , while the long - term impact of the colour and flavour be inhale be highly unlikely to be beneficial . of course , the full effect may not be know for some year yet . the uptake in youth vaping have be drive in part by the branding and promotion of product clearly aim at child , with vape , packaging , description and marketing all design to appeal specifically to young people . grown adult try to quit smoking be unlikely to see the appeal of cartoon character on their vape , but of course , child and young people will . likewise , the bright colour and fruit flavour be far more likely to appeal to child than to those look to quit tobacco smoking . for those reason , the last Government introduce a Bill that primarily target our intervention at young people . it would have restrict who could purchase tobacco product without impact current adult smoker . it seek to tackle youth vaping by restrict flavour , introduce plain packaging and change how vape be display in shop so that they do not appeal to child . it would also have prohibit the sale of non - nicotine vape and vaping alternative such as nicotine pouch to under - 18 , just as it be already illegal to sell nicotine vape to child . in parallel , it would have introduce new fine for rogue retailer in order to tackle the illegal market , seek to make sure that the law — such as age restriction on purchasing vape — be properly enforce . that approach be target at the next generation of young people and aim to prevent the take - up of smoking and vaping and break the cycle of nicotine addiction before it have even start . that Bill be not about demonising people who smoke or curtail current smoker ’ right or entitlement in any way . none the less , it have challenge practical implementation impact . I have a lot of respect for the public health Minister , the hon . member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) — I think that be his new constituency name — and know he well . I hope that when he wind up the debate , he will address some of the point I be about to make . my first point be about the impact on shopkeeper , particularly small shopkeeper , of enforce and operate within increase restriction , and the extent to which those restriction be practically enforceable . in the context of what the Bill set out to do , how do one avoid the existence of , or an increase in , a black - market economy in vape or cigarette ? we introduce our Bill before the general election . since then , the new Government have introduce a Bill that may have the same name , but be not quite the same Bill that be introduce back in March . the Bill before we today give the Secretary of State new , or significantly modify , power under the Health Act 2006 . it run the risk of pile an unknown number of regulation on to retailer through a new licensing scheme , and it create a whole new registration scheme . the challenge be that right hon . and hon . member will not be tell in detail what those scheme will look like , the specific impact they will have on business , or the detailed impact they will have on smoking and vaping rate until after the legislation have be pass . a hefty impact assessment — all 294 page of it — have be produce . give that the public health Minister have sign it , I fear he have to read every one of those page before do so . however , even with that impact assessment , the detailed impact of the individual regulation that may follow be unclear . for example , clause 136 amend the Health Act 2006 to give the Secretary of State the power to extend smokefree place to some outdoor space . of course , adult should be mindful and thoughtful about where they smoke or vape to be considerate to those around they , especially in area with child or vulnerable young people , but the Bill risk give the Secretary of State expand power to expand smokefree area with minimal oversight . I acknowledge that the affirmative resolution procedure will be use , but as we in this House know , a statutory instrument and the procedure that accompany it be not as rigorous in their scrutiny as primary legislation . unlike previous law , which ban smoking in confine area such as pub and bar , the Secretary of State be talk about ban in open space where the risk of second - hand smoking may be more limited . page 64 of the delegate power memorandum state : " under Section 4 of the 2006 Act , the Secretary of State could make regulation to designate additional place as smoke - free provide that they be of the opinion that there be a significant risk person present in such a place would be expose to significant quantity of smoke without a smoke - free designation … section 5 of the 2006 Act give the Secretary of State power to make regulation for vehicle to be smoke - free . " it go on to say : " clause 136 amend the exist power in section 4 of the 2006 Act by omit the risk condition . " I would be grateful if the public health Minister could explain in his wind - up speech — I suspect he will be able to do so — why that condition be be remove . it be there for a reason : to give a sense of proportionality to anything that be do and to ensure that a particular bar have to be meet , give the impact . its removal effectively give the Secretary of State much great discretion to do as he wish at a future date . I note that the Secretary of State have say today that he change his mind on ban smoking in pub garden or outside hospitality venue . I know he well , and he be an honourable man , so I take he at his word on that , but there be nothing in this propose legislation to prevent a future Secretary of State from come back , consult and expand beyond the area where he propose to restrict smoking to other venue and setting at a future date . under clause 136 , that could be do without the crucial risk criterion be apply . I would be grateful if the Minister could address that point , because it be hugely important . member be be ask to decide now whether they support expand smokefree place to an unknown list of outdoor space in the future , so it genuinely raise significant challenge and concern if that gateway be not in place . I be listen very carefully to what the right hon . Gentleman have to say . some 13 % of adult in Bracknell smoke , but we know that more than half of smoker would like to give up , so what I and my constituent be listen for be a commitment that his party will back concrete measure to end the public health epidemic of smoking once and for all — or be they just go to wrap up their objection in sophistry ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for most of what he just say . I will address precisely his point in a few paragraph , but I say to he that my party bring forward legislation in March , which be debate in April , that do not have the mission - creep that I fear the Secretary of State be demonstrate with clause 136 and various other measure in this propose legislation . I must also challenge the Government on how they anticipate this measure be enforce . will member of the public be encourage to call the police if they see a parent smoke in a prohibit place ? if there be no child in a park or playground , will it still be prohibit ? concern be also raise by the new licensing and registration scheme . while it be right that we have plan to expand the exist notification scheme to include non - nicotine vape and nicotine product involve in the supply chain , this Bill go a number of step far . the Secretary of State will be able to create a new licensing regime for retailer for tobacco , vaping and nicotine product . over 70 % of convenience store sell vape and tobacco product be independent shop . how will they fare and how will they be assist with the layer of add bureaucracy and cost that will be associate with the Bill ? do local authority , which be already under pressure , have the capacity and additional funding allocate to administer such a licensing scheme in their area ? again , my fear be that we be unable to make a fully inform decision about the impact because the regulation will be set out only after the Bill have pass . the impact assessment state : " a more restrictive licensing scheme would be expect to have a great impact on public health and a great economic impact on business . " however , we simply do not know if that be what the Secretary of State have in mind or what the regulation will look like . likewise , there be no detail on the impact of a new registration scheme for all tobacco , vaping , nicotine and herbal product , as well as tobacco - relate device . in the few month that the Government have be in office , they have sadly show that they be not particularly a friend of business and have break a number of their pre - election promise . although I have confidence in the Secretary of State as an individual and as a right hon . member of this House , I ask he to forgive the cynicism of those on the Opposition Benches over any attempt reassurance from the Government that they will take business ' concern into account as they consult on their plan . to the point make by the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , if a Division be call , in line with the precedent set last time this will be a free vote ; each Conservative Member may vote as they choose . the Bill , as I have say , come from a good intention to keep the population healthy , to ease cost for the NHS and to prevent child from take up addictive habit that may follow they for the rest of their life . I support those objective , but I call on the Minister for public health , when he wind up , to give the reassurance I seek and roll back the additional measure that have be put in place , over and above what we be propose . it be important that information be available so that people can make informed decision and that support be available for those who choose to stop smoke . adult individual be well place to make decision about their own life , but we recognise that the same be not true for child . I look forward to the response from the Minister for public health , which I hope will be constructive . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s offer to be collaborative and constructive in his approach to the legislation . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? I will briefly , because I have one sentence to go . I thank the shadow Secretary of State . as a public health doctor , I be delighted to hear he speak so freely , openly and positively about all the great thing that this legislation will bring , but I remain unclear whether he will be vote in support of this generation - define public health Bill this evening . that will depend on whether the Minister for public health give the promise I seek that he will withdraw a number of the measure that the Government have add to the Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who will take the Bill through Committee on behalf of the Opposition , and I know that she look forward to constructive and collaborative engagement with the Minister . I hope he can offer reassurance when he get up to the Dispatch Box in a few hour ' time . I declare an interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . just over a year ago , I welcome the previous Government ' s Tobacco and Vapes Bill . as the House may know , I have call for a smokefree generation for many year . I be not well pleased when the Conservatives vote down my amendment to the Health and Social Care Bill in 2021 . those amendment call for a ban on flavour and packaging target at child , which the shadow Secretary of State have just bring to the House ' s attention . if they have not be vote down , we would already have regulation to protect child from smoking and vaping . I join the Secretary of State in congratulate the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) on bring the Smoking and Vapes Bill forward , but it be regrettable that the previous Government do not fast - track it in the wash - up before the general election . nevertheless , I be grateful to the Labour Government for bring this Bill forward . it be strong than the previous legislation , and it respond to many of the issue that I and other raise in Committee with the previous Bill . the comprehensive regulation of all vaping and nicotine product be important for address the concern that vaping have become too widespread among young people . I strongly support regulation to reduce the appeal of such product , but we must ensure that the regulation be enforceable , robust and fit for purpose . my first of many question to the Minister be this : will he confirm that a detailed policy paper will be forthcoming , set out the policy objective on vaping and how the new regulation will deliver against the objective ? the labour manifesto make a bold commitment on halve the gap in healthy life expectancy between the rich and poor region in England . tobacco control be the good way to close the gap . we can not say it enough : the range of disease that smoking cause be extraordinary , from stillbirth and asthma in child to heart disease , stroke , dementia in old age , poor mental health and many cancer . it will never cease to amaze I that there be people in this place who be happy to be lobby by the tobacco company — include , I be guess , the shadow Secretary of State — some of whom we have hear from already , know full well the damage cause to individual , family and community , as well as to our health service . that include community such as mine in the north - east of England , where smoking be still the key driver of health inequality and have be the cause of 26 % of all death in the last 50 year and the cause of 125 , 000 death since 2020 . in my constituency of City of Durham , smoke cost we over £ 95 million a year , and more than £ 3 million be spend on healthcare . in County Durham , smoke cost we over £ 500 million a year , and over £ 21 million be spend on healthcare . in the north - east , the cost be over £ 2 billion , with healthcare cost at over £ 93 million . nationally , smoking be still the great cause of preventable death , still the lead cause of premature death and disability , and still responsible for half the difference in healthy life expectancy between the rich and poor . that be why I have ask time and again in this Chamber for action . it be a tragedy when we consider the further health implication . accord to Cancer Research UK , the most deprived community will not be smokefree until 2050 . I urge the Government to restate their intention to publish a road map to a smokefree country and outline how support will be target at those who most need to quit . smoking be also directly and indirectly link to poor mental health . nearly 40 % of those who have a severe mental health problem smoke , and smoking account for two third of the reduction in life expectancy among that group . I want to touch on the " polluter pay " levy . the Darzi review find that our health service be in real trouble . the Secretary of State be right that to rebalance supply and demand in our healthcare system , we need a major shift from sickness to prevention . the Khan review and the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health have advocate for a " polluter pay " levy , which could raise £ 700 million a year to create a smokefree fund . that would ensure that the tobacco company — not the public — pay for the harm that they inflict . will the Minister consider that approach to fund the work need to reduce smoking across society and to protect the NHS ? I should add that public health initiative to tackle smoking be remarkably good value for money and that fail to fund effort to tackle smoking be a false economy . initiative such as Fresh — the north - east ' s tobacco control programme — have lead the way in tackle smoke in our region . fresh and other could provide good practice for the Department . the Minister will know that the UK Government be party to the World Health Organisation framework convention on tobacco control . article 5 . 3 seek to protect policymake from industry influence , but we have already see that influence even at this stage of the Bill . will the Minister confirm that the Government will live up to their obligation under the FCTC and commit to protect the Bill from industry influence throughout its parliamentary process and the follow regulation ? I be proud to vote for a Bill that will improve people ' s life and extinguish the injustice that smoke cause to individual and society . smoking be never about choice , and it be pathetic that some member have argue that this be an issue of freedom ; it be absolutely nothing of the sort . tobacco company target child and young people . smoking be an addiction , and the only free choice be that first cigarette . when someone be in hospital , struggle to breathe because of smoking - induce lung cancer , where be their freedom ? today , we have the opportunity to give people the freedom to live healthy life , free from disease and the inequality that smoke cause . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I can confirm that it have be a very long time since anyone have ask I for ID to make a purchase — a moment that be even far into the past than the last time I buy a packet of cigarette . that experience will inform some of my comment today . I support this legislation , but it will be a free vote for my Liberal Democrat colleague , and I will use my speech to explain why . first of all , the Bill be split into two set of measure : one to deal with smoking and one to deal with vaping . we be 100 % supportive of the set of measure deal with vaping , which be in line with our party policy that be pass at our 2023 conference . I think everyone in this House be unite in agree that the targeting of nicotine product at young people and child through bright colour and attractive flavour be a shameful practice . measure need to be take to prevent that . I be the mum of a teenager — lucky I — and he report that some of his friend be unable to concentrate through a 40 - minute lesson , because they have be expose to such high level of nicotine in the vaping product that they use that they be even more addicted to nicotine than someone who might have take up smoking many year ago when I be young . we welcome the change to prevent the targeting of vaping at child , and the recent ban on disposable vape . we also acknowledge that vaping be an important part of smoking cessation , and legal vaping need to continue into the future . the introduction of a phase smoking ban be problematic , and not because Liberal Democrats want to see people smoke themselves into an early grave — far from it — but because it raise issue of practicality and civil liberty , which I will run through on behalf of my colleague . the first question be , practically , how will this work ? my son be bear in January 2009 . he will be one of the first people to benefit from a smokefree generation , and I sincerely hope that he never take up smoking , but if his friend who be just a few week old choose to take up smoking , they will be able to continue to do that for the rest of their life . under this Bill , those future adult will be able to buy tobacco product for themselves but it will be illegal for they to pass they on to other a few week young , such as my son . problematic enforcement cause some concern and lead we to question why there be not an alternative way , perhaps by set a very high minimum age to buy cigarette , so that most people get through the flourish of rebellious youth and do not take up smoking in the first place . the concern about practicality be legitimate . the Bill also raise the spectre of an ID card , because those people who choose to start smoking will potentially be force to carry an ID card or some other form of ID with they for the rest of their life . that be a concern for the Liberal Democrats , who be strongly opposed to require people to carry ID around with they , for various issue of privacy and personal liberty . there be also an ideological point about discriminate between two people because of their age . we be generally oppose to that as a society , but the Bill do that . the concern about retailer suffer abuse be also legitimate . they be already suffer from a wave of shoplifting and antisocial behaviour . some of the abuse direct at they come from the enforcement of age legislation for thing such as alcohol and exist tobacco legislation . we need to be cognisant of the decimation of community police under the previous Government . we need to be sure that those retailer be fully protect . the Bill create an extra risk for they . finally on the risk , there be a concern for the licensing authority , which presumably will be local council , although we do not have the detail on that yet . lot of local council be unable to carry out much more than their statutory duty currently , so I would appreciate confirmation that licensing will be fully fund for they , so that they be not put in charge of enforce something that will be impossible . I want to touch on what for I be quite an important area : the creation of a black market . criminal gang exploit young people in North Shropshire by get they hooked on cannabis . it be an extremely difficult problem . young people get into debt to those criminal gang and be hook into criminality for life . they see thing people should never see and be extremely damage by that exploitation . I share the concern that progressively ban tobacco product will increase the scope for the black market and the risk to child . for all those reason , as some member may be aware , I abstain on the vote last time the legislation be bring through the House . it would be a legitimate question to ask I why I have change my mind . I meet somebody call Linda Chambers , a liberal Democrat councillor in Hull , who come along to an event organise by action on Smoking and Health to encourage member to support the Bill . Linda be devastate when she lose her husband of 50 year to cardiovascular disease . as with a number of other speaker at the event who also speak very powerfully about their experience , her love one have try on several occasion to give up smoking but have be unsuccessful . the speaker at the event explain that the nicotine addiction have take away the personal choice of their love one to live the life they want to live . they be not exercise their personal choice any more . for a liberal , that be a very powerful argument . personal choice be so important , and addiction really do take that away . as the asthmatic daughter of two smoker who have repeatedly try and struggle to give up over the year , member might perhaps have expect I to understand that argument a little bit early . typically , as the daughter of two smoker , I take up smoke myself . I do not smoke very much and do not smoke for very long , but I still occasionally have the odd craving for reason I can not explain , especially when I be in a traffic jam . but it be not funny , be it ? tobacco be uniquely harmful and uniquely addictive , and that be why I support the measure we be take to address that . another really important , persuasive and powerful argument I hear in the previous Parliament be when Dame Andrea Leadsom , the responsible Minister at the time , and Chris Whitty take the time to provide a briefing to the Liberal Democrats . one point they highlight be health inequality . a point that strike I — at the time , I be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss — be that 21 . 1 % of pregnant woman in the most deprived area of the country be likely to smoke while pregnant , whereas in the least deprived part of the country only 5 . 6 % be likely to be a smoker . that huge difference correlate to a horrifying differential in the rate of stillbirth . woman who smoke while pregnant be more likely to have a stillbirth , and stillbirth rate in the most deprived area of the country be 50 % high than in the least deprive area . if we be serious about tackle health inequality rather than just pay it lip service , we have to take additional measure to tackle those inequality . for all the reason I have outline , I will support the Bill . however , I retain a few concern , and I would be grateful if the Minister could address they in his wind up . the power in the Bill effectively allow the Secretary of State to make any public place or workplace a no - smoking area . that be very far reaching . I would prefer to introduce measure in Committee that would require he to come back to Parliament before extend the area affect . that would protect the hospitality industry , which , as hon . member have point out , be struggle , particularly in rural area . I will also point out the obvious , which be that anybody who be currently over 16 could potentially be a smoker for life . there be many , many people who take up smoking and who want to give up but be unable to . we must reverse the cut to the public health budget and the smoking cessation budget to enable those people to benefit from stop smoking . the Conservatives have slash the public health budget since 2015 . we would like the Secretary of State to use the money provide for health in the Budget to address that problem . a quarter of cancer death be cause by smoking and 75 , 000 gp appointment every month be for smoking - relate illness . many woman who smoke during pregnancy will continue to smoke for up to another decade . despite my concern , I will support the Bill to ensure that people like Linda do not have to lose their love one to an addiction they be unable to end . I urge the Secretary of State to look at measure to deal with the practical consideration we have outline and to support the current generation of smoker to quit if they want to . I apologise for the fact that I may not be able to stay in the Chamber for the wind - up speech , owe to a long - stand appointment this evening . although smoking be the no . 1 preventable cause of death and ill health , there be still more than 6 million smoker in the country . while the Government be right to press on with the Bill in the current Parliament , I hope that it can be improve even more compare with the version present by the last government . it will help the country to become smokefree by 2030 . as Members may know , I be a strong advocate of vaping , and I will concentrate on that in my speech . I have witness many of my friend and family member make the switch from smoking to vaping , and it be my honour to chair the responsible vaping all - party parliamentary group . vaping be 95 % safe than smoke , accord to both King ' s College hospital and the former Public Health England , and it be the most successful tool to help smoker to quit . accord to datum from ASH , 3 million adult vaper be ex - smoker . I fully support the health message that those who smoke should change to vaping , but " if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape " . however , we now need urgent Government action to prevent youth vaping , which have become far too prevalent in recent year . we have already hear the statistic this afternoon . in campaign on vaping , I have be privileged to work with the vaping industry . I be disappoint that during the passage of the early Bill the last Government do not engage with the industry to find the good solution to tackle both youth vaping and the illicit trade , which be largely responsible for child and young people have access to the vape market . at a forum hold recently by the UK Vaping Industry Association , its director general , John Dunne , praise our Front - Bench team for the way in which they have already engage with the industry , whose proposal will , I know , help the Bill achieve its objective . like the industry , I have always support the introduction of a licensing scheme as a helpful tool for well enforcement of the market , help trading standard to identify non - compliant business , impose tough penalty and close down premise . I do not understand why restrict the number of shop and supermarket sell vape increase regulatory compliance . shop and supermarket that sell vape responsibly should not be penalise , and we need to ensure that specialist vape retailer can continue to operate , especially as they provide a such a critical service in help smoker to quit . flavour name that appeal to those under 18 be unacceptable and must be ban , but flavour be a key factor in help smoker to make the transition to vaping . research show that about 65 % of adult vaper find fruit - flavour or sweet liquid preferable . if only tobacco flavour be available , many ex - smoker will return to smoking . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , restrict vape flavour could affect 87 % of adult who vape . hopefully , meaningful consultation on flavour will lead to a safe solution to curtail youth vaping while also ensure that vaping be an attractive alternative for adult smoker . it may well be that increase fix penalty notice fine to £ 200 be not a strong enough deterrent to irresponsible retailer and pale into insignificance compare with the profit make from the sale of cheap vape on the illicit market , and I hope that the Bill can be amend to increase the fine significantly so that it act as a real deterrent to those who now happily sell vape to child . keep in mind the UK ' s 6 million smoker , who need help to quit , it be important to ensure that as we bring in the strong possible measure to prevent under - age access to vaping product , the Bill must not over - regulate and , in do so , undermine the power of vape as a smoking cessation tool . I have be pleased to learn recently of new technical solution that could help the Government to end youth vaping . current law require age verification at the point of sale , which have fundamentally fail to stop young people get hold of vape . the Government could go far and require continuous age verification at the point of use . I recently meet representative of a company that have develop open - standard technology that can be apply by all manufacturer . it meet regulatory requirement for security and privacy , and can lock or unlock a device at the point of use . vape on sale in the UK market could be require to have secure Bluetooth technology instal — a low - cost chip that can be integrate into vaping product . such chip provide a simple on / off switch that can be control via a mobile app . user would have to verify their age via the app , in the same way as when access other service . this simple and straightforward approach would mean that no matter how a child get hold of a vape , they would be unable to use it . as the process would be quick and user - friendly , it would not prevent adult vaper from use vaping product as they do currently . I hope the Minister will consider look at this technology in more detail as the Bill progress . the Minister know that I be not a lobbyist for the vaping industry — some people may I think that I be , but I can categorically say that it be not true . I do not even vape myself , but I do want the Bill to be effective . I genuinely believe that include the vaping industry as a consultee be essential to ensure that this Bill help meet the Government ' s aim of create the first smokefree generation , and I hope that the Minister can confirm today that the industry will be consult during the progression of the Bill . I welcome this Bill , and I think the country should welcome it and salute the Government for effectively take on the Bill — they have polish and finesse some element — that be introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) under the previous Government . the gracious remark of the Secretary of State in his opening speech will have resonate on the Conservative Benches and be appreciate . a lot have happen in our country ' s relationship with tobacco . I be pretty certain that have we know in the past what we know now about the harm of tobacco for so many thousand of our citizen , both societally and in term of health , Queen Elizabeth would have probably say to the merchant adventurer , " thank you very much for bring it over , but please take it back . " it would not have take root , but it have do . we have move through a time when medic be pay by the industry to tell we of the beneficial effect of tobacco — for example , the idea that menthol be good for clear people ' s lung . as we know , the medical profession have very much change its tune . rather like the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , my late father - in - law be an ENT surgeon , and I well remember talk to he about the devastating impact that he see on people ' s health and the cost that such terrible and avoidable condition can have , both to the economy and to the health service . as I mention to the Secretary of State , I be no long ask for proof of ID when I go into shop to buy anything . however , I can well remember that as a young schoolboy — this just go to show how this country ' s relationship with tobacco have change — the headmaster at my local primary school seem to be addict to Piccadilly cigarette . I do not know whether they be still make , but it be my job every morning — I obviously have a trustworthy face — to trot up Wyndham Crescent , go round the corner into Severn Road , go into Tony ' s , the newsagent , and pick up either 20 or 40 . I know it be go to be a bad day if my headmaster need two packet of 20 . it be amazing that a nine - year - old schoolboy could be give cigarette , but so trust be Tony , the newsagent , that we do not have to pay . we do that on Fridays , and there be always 10p leave over , which would allow I to have a comic , two packet of crisp or a bag of Chewits . when I say this to my child , who be either in or approach their teenage year , they look at I with glee but also as though I be talk about a different age , which of course I be . what on earth can we buy for 10p these day ? as I say in my intervention on the Secretary of State , I welcome the Bill . I be grateful to he and to the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) , for a brief conversation we have today about the Government ' s intention not to include within the scope of this Bill — or , indeed , in any future consultation — a prohibition on smoking outside a hospitality venue . I entirely take the Secretary of State ' s point that it be not just the rural hospitality sector that would be affect , but a number of publican in my constituency have say to I that it really would be the death knell for their business if smoker be not allow to have a cigarette and a pint outside the pub , in the designate smoking area . their business be very marginal , as the Minister know and as the Secretary of State recognise , so I be grateful to they for that . the licence that the Bill envisage will be useful for provide a record of who be do what , where , for the benefit of officialdom in its many guise , but I urge the Government — and local government , if this get passporte down to it — not to see those licence as a cash cow . they should not be a profit centre , and the requirement to secure a licence should not be onerous . the constraint of the Bill be clear . hon . member have ask why , if smoking be so bad , we do not just stop sale completely . the Government be not go down that route , so those who be go about a legal business should not be make to feel like criminal or societal pariahs for sell what be still a legal product to those who be legally entitle to purchase it . I disagree almost fundamentally with the assessment of vape from the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) . I have three kid at our local high school , and too many of their cohort have get entrap into vaping , bring in by the colour , the flavour , the smell , the packaging and the novelty factor . I understand entirely the intention for vape to be a passport away from tobacco , but for too many , it seem to be an entry to smoking , and then move they on to tobacco . that be entirely not what be envisage , so I support fundamentally the robust approach that the Bill take to the vaping sector . I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s response to the concern raise about smuggling . one can make something illegal , prohibit it or narrow access to it , but that do not necessarily , in the first instance , choke off market demand , and people will seek it . there will clearly have to be some robust empowering of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs agent and other to ensure that we do not see a burgeon black market in tobacco product . on the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ' s point , I remember hear a presentation from british American Tobacco , and a point that resonate with I be that there be legal vape , the ingredient of which we know and be list , and then there be a huge black market for vape , principally from China , and nobody know what the hell be in they . I think an awful lot of parent think that those vape be just produce steam , and have no idea about their dangerous chemical composition . I think too many teacher and headteacher also think that , and the learning curve have be steep . I have an interesting thought on the supply and demand issue , and the challenge it will pose from a control perspective . the hon . Gentleman paint a nice image of a day go by when one of the kid could be send down to the shop to pick up something for an adult , and I ask member to consider what kind of world and country we want to live in . do we want to live in a country where we could send one of the kid down to the shop to pick up something for we , or do we want to live in a country where we be force to police each other ' s behaviour in park ? we should think very carefully about the Government ' s remit . the hon . Gentleman take I neatly to my closing point . if I understand he correctly , he be make an argument about civil liberty and freedom . one do not have to be a libertarian to cherish freedom and liberty , as I hope we all do in this House . Libertarianism be the extreme form . it be the difference between liberty regulate and control — parametere , if one will — and liberty laissez - faire . it strike I as rather incongruous for a libertarian to wish to become a lawmaker , because most law be there to control , prohibit and regulate . it seem masochistic : " I be a free market libertarian , yet I have decide to put myself in the shackle of lawmaking in order to restrict the liberty that I cherish . " the hon . Gentleman make a serious point , but we have to deal with society as it be , rather than as we might like it to be . thing have change . the ultra - libertarian would ask why we force people to wear seatbelt , as people should be free to hurl themselves through their windscreen at speed . why do we have speed limit ? the libertarian would say that we should be absolutely free to drive at whatever speed , irrespective of the condition . I remember , back at university , hear an eccentric american — that can sometimes be a tautology — questioning , from the extreme wing of libertarianism , the merit or otherwise of age of sexual consent . I suggest that all we do , and our inspiration for do it , be benign and kindly . too often , it be interpret as be paternalistic and patronising , but I like what the Secretary of State say about this approach to lawmaking be in the proud one nation tradition of the Conservative party , because tory like order , not disorder . rise — here be a man who adore order nearly as much as he adore Margaret Thatcher . one of my reason for get involve in politic be that I believe in a free society , and I believe that people should make choice about their own life . I do not believe that the state should govern how people live their life , but that do not mean I be an extreme libertarian . it just mean that I believe in freedom with responsibility . as my hon . friend have say , attitude to tobacco have evolve over the year . People have naturally decide not to smoke and , speak as a Conservative , surely it be well to educate and let people make their own choice than to impose decision on they . my hon . friend make an important point , and I readily accept that it have a huge intellectual underpinning , but we have have public health campaign for year on the danger of smoke tobacco . in some instance , it have work . we have also use taxation and the pricing mechanism . my late father tell my mother that he would give up when cigarette reach 10 shilling a packet . he eventually give up when smoking be ban in public building and the like . the question that remain be : do we allow unfettered freedom if it harm only the individual who be exercise it , and step in when the exercise of that unfettered freedom have negative impact on society ? the Secretary of State and other have dilate , perfectly correctly , on the impact on demand and supply in the national health service . a disproportionate amount of resource go to deal with smoking - relate disease , illness and condition . we can do something about that . we know full well the negative impact of passive smoking on other people ' s health , so the impact of the exercise of that liberty be not limit to the individual . I suggest respectfully that my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) would have a strong point if it be limit to the individual . then we could say , " provide the information and let the individual take the decision . " however , that decision impact many other people . it affect the productivity of the nation and the national health service , and the health of family and society . I suggest to my hon . friend that it be an entirely conservative instinct to say , when all the lever have be pull and button push — when there have be public information , education and some form of prohibition — " it have work up to a point , but not enough and not at the right speed . we will have to do something else . " I accept that not everybody who describe themselves as a Conservative , as my hon . friend and I both do , will make the same analysis and arrive at the same position as I . I vote for the Bill in its last iteration , and I will vote for it again today , because I think it be the next lever that we need to pull and the next button that we have to push . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we have an NHS and a Government who be expect to provide and pay for treatment when people be ill , so there be a duty and an onus on the Government to try to keep people healthy , and to provide information about well - know danger to people ' s health ? this be not about have a nanny state , but about nudge people to make the right choice , because it cost money to treat people , and we want to save money as well . the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . one can nudge , prod , push and exhort as much as one can , but the Bill be probably the final step stone in quite a long line of stepping stone to try to wean people off their dependency on tobacco . the House have be generous with its time , as have you with your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . in closing , I echo and endorse the point make by the Secretary of State and other contributor from the government Benches : people who have an addiction be not free . they be trap by their addiction , and that affect many area of their life . if someone be terribly well off , they can afford the addiction to tobacco , and it will make not a jot or tittle of difference to the household budget or income , or to their standard of life — on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will not , I be afraid , because I want to conclude . the disproportionate hammer blow be feel by family who would describe themselves as poor , on low or fixed income . when the choice between feed the addiction and feed the child come into play , then feed the addiction seem to have the trump hand . the Government be right to have pick up the ball and take the Bill forward . it be an entirely conservative measure . this be not a restriction of liberty in the abstract . the Bill be about public health . it be about take the datum , extrapolate the fact and recognise the harm , and , as responsible legislator , respond to that to make a difference to all our community up and down the country . like previous speaker , I have not be challenge on my age , even though I use moisturiser ; perhaps it be my recede hairline . I thank the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for his eloquent speech about the conservative party ' s one nation tradition and his support for the Bill . it be absolutely the case that this legislation come on the back of decade of other Bills and act that have acknowledge the challenge around smoking in our society . he eloquently articulate that evolution in our body politic . I celebrate the fact that the Bill follow other landmark act of Parliament under the previous Labour Government , one of which have an impact on I when I work in the retail industry . the ban on smoking in workplace make a fundamental change to many people ' s life and overnight improve the life chance of many million of our citizen . as have be say by member across the Chamber , there be a consensus that smoking remain one of the lead cause of death , claim 80 , 000 life annually and cost the NHS billion of pound , with some estimate put it at between £ 3 billion and £ 5 billion . on that basis , would the hon . Gentleman also ban alcohol ? would he ban all type of unhealthy food , or chocolate — where do it end ? we have age restriction on alcohol sale and the Bill propose do the same . similarly , for other substance in society , we look in a proportionate way at their health consequence ; for instance , we class particular category of drug as A , b and C . all those thing need to be take as individual element . certainly , we will look at other proposal , but on this particular element , smoking and tobacco have be widely acknowledge as a public concern over many decade . the vaping industry have see some positive outcome , with people transfer from cigarette to vaping , as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) point out . indeed , that use for those product have be acknowledge by the NHS . as a former teacher , however , I have also see the consequence for young people and that have be acknowledge by many parent in the Chamber . I have unfortunately see in the classroom , through confiscation and the illicit behaviour of some young people , that blue razz lemonade , watermelon bubble gum and strawberry raspberry cherry ice be all flavour of vape . they be be market at young people , whether directly or indirectly , because we know , as do the tobacco industry , that young people be where the use of tobacco - base product start . I have see at first hand the consequence of the proliferation of vaping in school and its ubiquitous presence across my area in Chatham and Aylesford . I agree that the Bill ' s removal of disposable , single - use vape , which be currently so easily accessible and cynically market , be a sensible move and should reverse the recent trend of young people who have never smoke turn to vape as an initial access point . it should also stop vape be see as a gateway to other type of drug . sadly , I have to report that cannabis - base product and other illicit product be gain ground among disposable vape product . at the same time , million of single - use electrical device blight our local landscape . many disposable vape be deposit on roadside and in park , and while it be not specifically part of the content of the Bill , the reality be that vape have environmental consequence . the branding of some flavour have be a key driver of youth take - up . to prevent under - age appeal , flavour should be adult - focused and restrict to such flavour as tobacco , menthol and a handful of responsibly brand fruit flavour . I note that some in the industry be already promote that agenda . the age restriction be sensible , and I think that the rise age escalator will be enforceable . indeed , many supermarket already have an age limit well above that which be legally require and challenge at the point of disposal . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the upper - age escalator could prove difficult later on , particularly in respect of the ability of those who sell tobacco ? at the moment , if a young person sell alcohol , they have to get a supervisor who be old to allow it . when the people sell alcohol be in their thirty , but be bear after 2009 , and everyone else in the shop be in their thirty , who will be allow to sell the tobacco ? do he have any thought on that ? the licensing regime will be look at in detail , but the reality be that , when I be buy alcohol in a supermarket , I might be challenge on my age by someone at the counter who be over the age of 16 . I think I be correct in say that I would then have to prove my age at point of sale . I be happy to be correct if I be wrong on that . enforcement be very welcome . as a former council portfolio holder for licensing , it be always very difficult to respond to email from resident seek redress around the sale of vaping product . some product be be sell over the counter in unlicensed premise , so enforcement be very difficult . other product be be market use very aggressive advertising . I welcome the licensing element of the Bill and look forward to hear more detail . council , I believe , be ready to take on the mantle of licensing . they license many other type of premise , and I suspect that this late measure will just be an addition to the exist regime . the measure will challenge bad faith actor and illicit product . I have be ask question about a digital tax on vape product to see whether we can treat this sector in a similar way to other tobacco - base product . I welcome the Bill because it will put we back on the front foot as a world leader in tobacco harm reduction , and help we lead the way in improve standard in cigarette alternative . if we get this right , which I believe we will with this Bill , we can maintain a healthy balance , with vape usage target at the adult market and use as a means to reduce addiction to other nicotine - base product . the Bill balance the liberty of individual to make choice with the responsibility of the state to uphold the public health of the most vulnerable and our young people , and I urge colleague to support it . may I declare my interest as a former chair , for nine year , of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health ? in this new Parliament , I co - chair the same group with the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) . I be passionate about prevent young people from start to smoke and encourage people who do smoke to give up because of my personal experience . the Secretary of State relate his personal experience , and I think it be right that I should relate mine . both of my parent die from smoking - relate cancer . my late mother be only 47 when she die . she be a very heavy smoker all her life . I be then leave as a 23 - year - old with three young sister to bring up as a family . I do not want any family in this country to go through what our family go through . so this , for I , be personal as well as political . I listen to the Secretary of State when he talk about the speech that the former Prime Minister make at the Conservative party conference . if he examine the Westminster Hall speech that I make some two month early , he will see that it be almost the same — word for word . I have not call my right hon . friend out for his plagiarism before . this House have a very long history of tobacco control . those measure have be introduce mainly from the Back Benches . I know that the Government will proclaim that a Labour Government bring in the ban on smoke indoor , but it should be remember that it be a senior labour Back Bencher — a former Member of this House — who say that unless the Government introduce the measure , he would table a cross - party amendment to the Health Bill and it would be carry by a heavy majority . he do not need to do that , and I welcome the provision . I be delighted that this Bill build on the Bill that be present in the previous Parliament . I be proud to speak in that debate and to sit on the Bill Committee as we try to improve the Bill . the then Minister , Andrea Leadsom , take away many of our amendment and say that she do not yet have the authority to agree they , but be willing to review they in the round . clearly , we do not get to the point of do that . it be important to remember that from 2011 to 2023 , the number of people smoke drop from 20 % of the population to 11 . 9 % , which be a big fall . the previous Government should be commend for that . indeed , the last Government make it illegal in 2012 to display tobacco product at the point of sale . I remember that I lead a debate in Westminster Hall in September 2013 call for the standardisation of tobacco product to be make mandatory . both the Conservative and Labour Front Benches oppose the position . two year later , it be pass by this House . that show how the Back Benches lead and government often follow . at the same time , child be protect from harmful second - hand smoke by a law that make it illegal to smoke in a vehicle contain anyone under 18 . that be difficult to enforce , and I remember many colleague say , " if you can ' t enforce it , it win ' t happen , " but most colleague will remember sit in a car where their parent be smoke and suffer that second - hand smoke . we win that argument . it be once again a Back Bencher — the senior Back Bencher Alex Cunningham — who bring that forward , and we be proud to support it . we win the argument on the smokefree generation . the then Health Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , build the cross - party consensus then , and we reach the consensus on raise the age of sale for tobacco by one year every year . in the vote on Second Reading of the last Tobacco and Vapes Bill , it be rightly back by a huge majority across the House . I welcome the new measure , which include the amendment table to the original Bill . it take into account most , if not all , the amendment we propose last time in Committee . the Government have not yet meet the standard set by the last government , though , in address smoking among the 5 . 6 million smoker in England . the last government commit £ 15 million in funding for mass medium campaign , £ 30 million for enforcement and £ 70 million for local stop smoke service . I note that the Secretary of State mention the £ 70 million for smoking cessation service , but not the other item . when the Minister respond , will he commit to the same level of support for the " swap to stop " scheme to support adult smoker to switch to vape and a national financial incentive programme , particularly aim at pregnant woman who want to stop smoke ? today , the Government confirm funding for stop smoke service and enforcement . that be welcome , but only if the funding be sustain for the next five year in line with the commitment make by the previous Government . I be also concerned that while the enforcement duty in the Bill be great than before , that have not be match by additional funding . will the Minister confirm that a full assessment of the cost of enforcement will be undertake as a matter of urgency and that the funding will be review follow that and the passage of the Bill ? between 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 , we see the big single drop in maternal smoking rate since record begin , from 8 . 8 % to 7 . 3 % — an 18 % decline in the number of woman smoke during pregnancy . the fall be a credit to the service establish under the last government to support woman to quit . keep up that level of progress will not be easy , but by maintain the world - lead national financial incentive scheme , that rate of decline can be maintain , give child the gift of a smokefree start in life . however , the funding for the scheme be due to come to an end in March next year . will the Minister confirm whether the Government will extend the scheme and ensure that every baby get the good possible start in life — something I know his predecessor would have strongly support ? Most of the Bill come from the Khan review . one item be not in the Bill that certainly should be . the difficult fiscal environment that the Government find themselves in mean that discussion on funding can lead to tense shoulder on the Government Benches . however , I bring good news : there be a way to raise revenue , by pass the cost directly on to tobacco company — those responsible for the blight on our population ' s health and wealth . will the Minister agree to come to the APPG and address the matter , so that we can talk about the implementation of a " polluter pay " tobacco levy on the profit of big tobacco , which would address issue with market price and limit the profitability of the industry ? that can all be do without impact the cost of tobacco to the consumer or , indeed , on the wholesale market . as co - chair of the all - party group , I congratulate the Government on adopt so many of the amendment that we table in the last Parliament , include on the introduction of a licensing scheme . I be pleased that the Bill indicate that that scheme will be more robust that the current scheme for alcohol , mean that it can be use to improve public health , which I be sure we all agree with . at the Committee stage of the previous Bill , I also table an amendment to require age verification for everyone who purchase tobacco . that would aid enforcement and simplify the process for shop worker , who would not have to guess whether customer be over the legal age of sale or explain to some why they be be ask for proof of age . the requirement to ask for proof of age have be strengthen but not mandate , so in Committee will the Minister consider introduce mandatory age verification ? I welcome the ban on vape sponsorship and advertising , which be , once again , discuss in the previous Bill Committee . the promotion of vape product for anything other than smoke cessation do not support public health goal . however , I be pleased that the Bill ensure that public health organisation can still promote vape as a quit - smoke aid . can the Minister confirm that the Advertising Standards Agency will work with public health organisation to ensure that that work in practice , so that smoker be still inform about the benefit of switching and , more importantly , of give up tobacco altogether ? the Bill include new power to extend and designate smokefree place as vape - free . it be a shame that a consultation on where those power should apply be curtail before the Bill ever reach Parliament , because we need an open debate on that subject , and it would be well lead by evidence rather than by decision make behind close door at the Department . will the Minister consider that aspect and see whether we can have a proper consultation so that all member of the public can participate ? the Bill consolidate many exist power around tobacco control and bring they into one place , and I welcome that proposal . it will , I hope , ensure that legislation be future - proof against any loophole or escape clause . we know how hard big tobacco work to get around the legislation we pass in this place . an issue that I do not believe be cover by the Bill — although I stand to be correct — be that of chew tobacco . Paan , for example , be often mix with tobacco and sell with different product in different outlet , and it be sell loose , so it be difficult to monitor . often , exist law on oral tobacco be not enforce properly , so the population who use those product , who tend to come from the indian subcontinent , do not realise the risk that they be run . we know that mouth and throat cancer be particularly prevalent among people from the indian subcontinent . we must combat that by ensure that such product be properly regulate . will the Minister consider regulate all form of tobacco and ensure that trading standard and other have the resource to enforce the regulation properly ? I congratulate the House on the continue consensus on reduce smoking , and take this moment to mark the significance of the Bill ' s return to Parliament . I be very proud that it be a Conservative Government who first introduce the policy . no other consumer product kill up to two third of its long - term user ; it be uniquely lethal and require a regulatory approach . government intervention be justify against this addiction , which steal the health and wealth of our population . to those who say that this be a matter of freedom of choice , I say that there be freedom of choice only in take the first cigarette , after which people be addict for life and either have to try to quit — some try up to 30 time , as we have say — or face shorten life and horrible death . we in this country have be a world leader in tobacco control , stand up to big tobacco ' s repeat effort to block our progress . the creation of a smokefree generation would have be absolutely unthinkable a few year ago , but it be so close — we can see it come now — and it will be a credit to this Parliament and the previous one . I remember the Minister say that it would be a Labour Government who create a smokefree England by 2030 . let we hope that we can do it fast than that . I start by welcome this Bill , which will create the first smokefree generation . child turn 15 this year will never legally be able to be sell tobacco . as we look to reform and transform our nhs and improve health outcome for our country , we can not do so without tackle the root cause . the long - term chronic health issue that stem from smoking and the impact that they have on our NHS be well known and have be well cover today ; they do not need rehearse by I . it be worth note that few young people take up smoking each year , which be good news and should be welcome by member . the proportion of adult age 16 and over in the UK who say that they smoke cigarette decrease significantly from 12 . 7 % in 2021 to 11 . 2 % in 2022 , continue the downward trend see since 1974 . recent research by Go Smoke Free show from analysis of Office for National Statistics figure that between 2015 and 2023 the percentage of adult who smoke in Suffolk have decline to 10 . 6 % , down from 16 % in 2016 . that positive downward trend do not mean that young people be safe from the addiction of smoking or that further intervention by this Government be not need . alongside the decrease in young people take up smoking and the decline in adult in Suffolk smoking , we have see an increase in young people and child take up vaping . the vaping epidemic among child and young people should be a great concern to we all on both side of this Chamber . in 2023 , 20 % of child have try vaping , which be almost double the figure in 2020 , before the first covid lockdown . this rapid trajectory be frightening , and I share the concern of many parent who have write to I about the availability of vape and the marketing of they , which so often seem as if it be target directly at child . we know that disposable vape be the product of choice for the majority of child vape today , and I therefore welcome the ban on disposable vape that this Bill will bring forward . the new legislation will not only protect the environment , but help to make huge stride in reduce the appeal of vape to young people and help to keep they out of the hand of the most vulnerable child . I also welcome the Bill ' s drive to ban the advertising and sponsorship of vape and nicotine product and allow regulation of the flavour , packaging and display of vape so that they can not be market to appeal to child . it be astonishing that it be currently legal for vape to be sell from location such as the back of taxi , toy store and confectioner . this practice must stop , and I be glad that the Bill seek to tackle that — in particular , it will be hugely welcome to constituent in Suffolk Coastal . in my constituency , we have vape shop clearly target child and young people and advertising product along with sweet in a clear attempt to market and sell they to those age under 18 . resident in Felixstowe have be rightly outrage by the recent opening of an american sweet and vape store right on the high street in a prime location that be so clearly target child . I hope that under the term of the Bill , store such as that will be in breach of the law . I will follow the detail closely . I be also reassure that the £ 200 fix penalty notice will enable trading standard officer to act on the spot to clamp down on under - age sale . this Bill be welcome , and it should be welcome by member on both side of the House . I look forward to vote in favour of it later , and I will do so on behalf of the resident of my constituency who have express their direct concern to I . rise — after the next speech , I will impose a six - minute time limit . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate about a Bill that seek to change the way in which our society approach smoking and vape particularly for future generation . I have never smoke in my life , and I would not wish my child or anyone else ' s to pick up the habit . smoking be undeniably dangerous , highly addictive , and a significant burden on public health . the Government datum be stark : smoking cause 80 , 000 death in England every year and cost the NHS and the economy billion . at the same time , however , I firmly believe in individual choice . it be not the role of the state to dictate every aspect of a person ' s lifestyle . like alcohol , smoking be harmful . some member have make the argument that the justification for ban smoking be that the practice also harm other . I ask those member why we do not also ban the consumption of alcohol , which place a massive burden on the NHS as well as contribute to violent crime , include — with yesterday ' s White Ribbon Day in mind — domestic violence . should we not also look at gambling , which be also highly addictive and destroy family all over the country ? instead , we educate people and provide support for those who wish to quit . I believe that be the balance that liberalism stand for — freedom with responsibility . the Bill take a much - need step forward on vaping . we know that vaping be increasingly market in way that appeal to child , from brightly coloured packaging to sweet , toy - like flavour . that be unacceptable . the Liberal Democrats have long call for tough regulation of vape , and I welcome the provision to ban advertising , restrict packaging and flavour and enforce age restriction . these be sensible measure that will protect young people without penalise adult who use vaping as a tool to quit smoking . the hon . Gentleman be probably aware of this , but there be a lot of safety issue with vape and smoking , especially for young people . one of the issue seem to be that it be unknown just yet what effect vape may have on adult , but even more so on child . for that reason , do the hon . Gentleman agree that further consideration must be give to the safety issue before we can let young people fully use vape ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) have already raise the issue of spice vape in a debate in this House . I think there be a lot of safety concern relate to vaping , and hopefully this Bill can start to address some of those issue . as a party , we early support the Government ' s move to ban single - use vape on environmental ground . vaping have a role in smoking cessation , but as the hon . Gentleman have point out , it have to be regulate to prevent harm to child . on smoking , however , the Bill venture into more contentious territory , in my view . the proposal to ban the sale of tobacco product to anyone bear on or after 1 January 2009 be somewhat problematic . while I appreciate the ambition behind create a smokefree generation , I worry about the long - term implication of this measure . for one , history teach we that outright ban often lead to unintended consequence . as we have see with other prohibition , a black market can emerge , make it hard to regulate the quality and safety of tobacco product . then there be the question of principle : should the state prevent grow , consent adult from engage in legal activity ? I believe we must tread carefully when legislate against personal freedom , even when those freedom carry risk . a more effective approach would be to invest in public health measure , such as smoking - cessation programme , early cancer detection and well treatment facility . the Bill also grant the Secretary of State sweep power to declare any public space smokefree . while I support protect child in playground , school and hospital , these power go far beyond that , remove the requirement that a space must pose a significant risk of smoke exposure to be designate as smokefree . this raise concern about potential overreach , which be understandably create concern in the hospitality and night - time industry sector . I urge the Government to clarify this issue when the Bill be in Committee . smoking rate in this country be already decline , particularly among young people . in 2021 , just 1 % of school pupil report smoke regularly , compare with 30 % in 1996 . that trend be encouraging , suggest that education and public health initiative be work , so while I share the Government ' s goal of reduce smoking and vaping rate , I believe this Bill go beyond what be necessary or proportionate . we should focus on support people to make well choice , not remove those choice altogether . there be much to welcome and commend in the Bill , and I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Government on bring it forward . I hope the Government will consider refine their approach in Committee in some of the area I have raise , balance public health priority with the liberal principle of individual freedom . it be a privilege to take part in this debate and to hear the broad consensus across the House on this excellent Bill . we have come a long way since the 2004 White Paper propose a smoking ban in almost all public place in England and Wales . smoke on public transport and in workplace now feel inconceivable thank to decade of work by campaigner and public health professional and bold action from Government . as a public health consultant , I pay special tribute to my public health colleague who have work so tirelessly in this area , from the seminal 1956 research undertake by Sir Richard Doll and team that first establish the link between smoking and lung cancer — something we take for grant today — through to the smoking cessation adviser who work daily to help people combat this destructive addiction . Mark Twain be report to have say : " give up smoking be the easy thing in the world … I ' ve do it thousand of time . " in my career to date I have be fortunate enough to undertake smoking cessation training and I can testify to the incredible amount of hard work and determination that both the quitter and the adviser put in to overcome the nicotine receptor that demand to be feed . this be an addiction , not a choice . so it be well by far not to start this destructive habit in the first place . currently , every day about 350 young adult still start smoke and about 160 people be diagnose with cancer cause by smoking . smoking be still the lead cause of premature death and disability in the UK , and be responsible for half the difference in healthy life expectancy between rich and poor . other member have talk about the appalling health inequality in this country and how the Bill will really contribute to reduce they . so it be right that this Bill will phase out the sale of tobacco and create a smokefree generation . already ever few people smoke , and this legislation will increase the rate of decline . by increase the age of sale by one year every year we can expect smoking rate among 14 to 30 - year - old to reach zero by 2050 . as a mum of two young son , I greatly welcome that . I welcome , too , the increase power to tackle vaping in the Government ' s Bill . vaping can be an effective aid for adult smoker to quit , but much tough measure be need to regulate product design to appeal to young people . as ASH put it : " vaping be an adult quit aid , not a child ' s toy . " the chief medical officer far underline this by state : " if you smoke , vaping be much safe ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape ; marketing vape to child be utterly unacceptable . " this Bill will give the Government far great control over the marketing and design of vape and the flexibility to adjust regulation in the future if the market or evidence change . do the hon . Member agree that that be also why it be important that we control vend machine sale ? I wholeheartedly agree . vend machine be often forget , but they be use for sale and marketing , and sometimes in way we do not understand . we should also look at online sale . a lot of young people purchase product online . may I ask the Minister what the Bill say about that ? I do not disagree . the Bill will give the Government far great control over the marketing side of vape and the flexibility to adjust regulation in the future . life evolve outside this Chamber , and we need to be able to evolve with it flexibly . alongside the measure in this Bill , this Government have make important commitment to integrate smoking cessation into routine care and ensure that the most disadvantaged group be not leave behind as we move towards a smokefree Britain . when I be undertake my training in public health , a director of public health tell I that our profession be where medicine meet politic — I be not sure how he would feel about I go into politic , but there we go . in this Bill , I be delighted to see the evidence and datum provide by my profession work in synergy with this Government ' s policy development to bring forward a Bill that will allow our young people to enjoy healthy future and allow we all to live in a healthy environment . I thank all member across the House for their work on this issue , and I offer my wholehearte support for the Bill . I rise to speak as a not yet reform smoker , be in the pre - contemplative phase of my addiction , but I be pleased to speak today in favour of this Bill , part 2 of which specifically relate to Scotland . while this be only its Second reading , the Bill certainly look to be a promising piece of legislation that will benefit life across the UK . smoking be the lead cause of preventable death in both Scotland and the UK . as parliamentarian , we have a duty to safeguard future generation from the addiction of smoking and to reduce preventable death across the UK . my unique contribution be this : I be concern by what I see as the rise in the number of lead actor in television and film whose character be feature as smoker . if I be right , I invite member to consider that the next time they enjoy their favourite programme or film . it seem to I that it be the most subliminal form of product placement on our screen these day , and I often wonder to what extent the tobacco industry might be behind it in the form of indirect sponsorship . turn to the matter at hand , as member will know , healthcare be a devolved matter for the Scottish Parliament . the Scottish Government ' s record on smoking control be excellent . Scotland be the first UK nation to introduce and endorse the smoking ban . Scotland lead the overhaul of the tobacco sale and display law . Scotland establish the UK ' s first tobacco retail register in 2011 , and Scotland be in the process of implement the deliberately ambitious goal of a tobacco - free nation by 2034 . I pay tribute to my party colleague , Kirsten Oswald , the former Member for East Renfrewshire , who dedicate a significant amount of her time and effort in this place to this important issue . during the debate in the last Parliament on the previous Tobacco and Vapes Bill , Kirsten powerfully state that " any argument put forward about personal choice or personal freedom make no sense at all when we be talk about child and a highly addictive substance . smoking be not a free choice ; it be an addiction . " — [ Official Report , 16 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 208 . ] with this Bill , we have the opportunity to directly address not only preventable death , but youth vaping . while decade of research have show the harm that smoking do , we be only at the very beginning of our understanding of the harm that might be cause by vape . there be emerge evidence in this area , but as yet , we simply do not know enough . however , we can act in a preventive way , and I hear what the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) say about vape be 95 % safe . I be not so sure that the evidence support that ; I be more inclined to agree with what the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) say on that point . the rise in youth vape across the UK be concern . vaping product be not intend to be use by child , but we know all too well of the shocking usage of these product by child . in 2022 , 3 % of 11 - year - old , 10 % of 13 - year - old and 25 % of 15 - year - old in Scotland say that they have use an e - cigarette in the last 30 day . to that end , the SNP welcome the range of new power in the Bill to regulate the sale of vape aim at young people and to tackle youth vaping . measure to tackle youth vaping can not come soon enough . the SNP support the new minimum age regime for tobacco sale , mean that no one bear in 2009 or later will ever legally purchase cigarette . that will aid in the Scottish Government ' s goal of a smokefree Scotland , as I have already allude to . the Bill follow lengthy work and co - operation between the UK and devolve government , include a UK - wide consultation on tackle smoking and vaping , and I be pleased to see that that work be productive . I note that Scottish Government request have be add to the Bill , such as in clause 52 and 53 . the Scottish Government previously lay a legislative consent memorandum in the Scottish Parliament , and will do so again . intergovernmental work and co - operation be vital on this island , especially on a topic as important as tackle preventable death . for Scotland , it be vital that the UK Secretary of State set out as soon as possible after the passage of the Bill , and in consultation with the Scottish Government and other devolve government , his plan to make good use of the various UK - wide power contain in the Bill . that be particularly important for the power relate to the specification and sale of vape , which be vital in tackle youth vaping . to conclude , I be happy to support the Bill , as be my colleague in the SNP . I look forward to see further co - operation between the UK and Scottish Governments to tackle this important issue . I be proud to be part of a Government who be create the first smokefree generation and protect the british public . this Bill will protect my constituent from avoidable illness and death , so I very much welcome it . like other member who have speak throughout the debate , I be one of those people who can only dream of be ask for ID these day . in fact , I be so old that I can remember grow up see huge billboard and bus stop with cigarette advertisement on they , and cigarette company sponsor entire sporting event . what a different time we live in now , and that be because our knowledge have progress so much . we now know that there be no safe level of exposure to smoking or even to second - hand passive smoking . as the Secretary of State set out , we know the consequence , which be 75 , 000 gp appointment attribute to smoke every single month ; 80 , 000 smoking - relate death each year ; and one person admit to hospital every minute because of smoking . that be all at a cost to the NHS of more than £ 3 billion a year , add to the pressure on it when we know it be at break point . there be also the economic cost , with £ 18 billion of productivity squander each year — dare I say , £ 18 billion up in smoke ? phase out this harmful addiction be not just a health priority but a societal and economic necessity . the urgency be especially clear in Southampton , where we have have 527 emergency hospital admission per 100 , 000 people for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , a disease from which my mum die , despite never have smoke but be the child of heavy - smoke parent . compare that rate to the average in England of 326 per 100 , 000 — that represent a 61 % high rate in Southampton . there be clearly an urgent need for the Bill to bring change nationally and in my city . I do not want the child of Southampton Itchen to have to grow up vulnerable to the same smoking - relate health issue that my generation and the generation before we do . this excellent Bill will rewrite the culture around smoking and vaping , free our next generation from addiction , from school - age pressure and from harmful trend . despite the trouble statistic , there be great work go on locally to tackle this issue . before the election , I visit Professor Kath Woods - Townsend and her team at a research - base project call LifeLab , which be a collaboration between the University of Southampton , University Hospital Southampton and the National Institute for Health and Care Research biomedical research centre . the project be centre around improve the health education of young people through practical visit to its lab at the hospital and involve they in its research process . one of its recent study find that some vaping brand be design to mimic sweet and that some child be persuade that there be an element of healthiness to fruit - flavour vape . imagine be a company that play on that . imagine be a company that know about the risk of vaping — know that it can cause lung - scar and asthma as well as bring an increase risk of cardiovascular disease , exposure to chemical and breathe in metal in the aerosol — and yet wrap its product up in bright colour and fruit flavour and deliberately market it towards our child , know the addictive nature of vape and know the vulnerability of child and the social pressure they face . the job of business be to contribute to the economy , to innovate and to create job and wealth , not to run rampant with our child ' s health to make a quick buck for shareholder . effective educational programme such as LifeLab , work in tandem with the Government ' s sensible legislation and action , will promote well understanding and reduce harm . we have see before what legislation can do : when smoke under 18 , proxy purchasing and advertising on cigarette packaging be ban , all those vital step drive down the smoking rate . now , it be time to stub out this habit — forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker — once and for all . the Labour Government be do what be right by the youth of today by prioritise health over profit and ensure that the next generation can grow up free from this addiction and its preventable disease . today , with cross - party support , I hope that we will take another ambitious step towards a future where our child ' s wellbeing come first . I be proud to be part of that . I congratulate the Government on their very strong stance on tobacco and protect child , but — the Minister will know what be come — when it come to refillable vape , the Bill be miss the mark . research by Professor Chris Pudney at the University of Bath discover that one in six vape confiscate in school contain the synthetic drug Spice — a highly addictive and dangerous drug commonly find in prison . it cause very dangerous health condition , include damage to vital organ . on our street , user be often slump in a semi - conscious state , unable to function . in our school , child be collapse . some be rush to intensive care ; other be leave battle lifelong addiction . the highly addictive nature of Spice make it a gateway to criminal activity , coercion and abuse . I have speak about this alarming issue on several occasion , and I have have some assurance from the Government , but so far I have not see anything on it in the Bill . it will not do anything to stop the trend of Spice - spike vape in school , because the vape that contain Spice be almost all refillable . refillable vape be rechargeable and feature an empty pod that can be fill up with a liquid of choice . ban disposable vape will not address that problem . many of the confiscate vape contain Spice be make to look exactly like a normal product from a shop , and they be usually sell as contain THC — tetrahydrocannabinol — also an illegal product in this country . child be inadvertently consume Spice under the impression that it be cannabis . vape contain THC be widespread in part of the United States where they be legal , but import they to the UK be costly and difficult . Spice , however , be cheap , readily available and highly addictive . dealer exploit that by pass off Spice as cannabis , preying on young people and put they at serious risk . this drug have the potential to condemn young people , in particular vulnerable young people , to a life of crime and addiction . when such Bills come along , we have the opportunity to make they as strong as possible . there be other issue associate with Spice - spike vape , but I urge the Government to really look at what they can do to strengthen the Bill to address this serious problem . there be opportunity in the Bill , but focus solely on disposable vape risk backfire ; it may push demand towards refillable vape , which be even easy to tamper with for illegal use . have the Government really prepare for the potential unintended consequence ? I hope that they acknowledge the point that I have raise . I look forward to see they address as the Bill progress . I support the Government on their very strong stance and on what they want to achieve , but I hope that the Bill can be strengthen . this piece of legislation carry immense significance for the health of our nation , and I welcome the step be take to protect people from the harm of tobacco , to create a smokefree generation and to tackle youth vaping . we be all too aware that smoking remain the big cause of preventable illness and death in our country , with decade of evidence in support of that . one in four cancer be drive by smoke . around 160 people every day be diagnose with a smoking - relate cancer . smoking cause asthma , stillbirth and dementia . the evidence around second - hand smoke be overwhelming ; it cause increase rate of cancer , heart disease , stroke and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — the list go on . tobacco consumption be a primary driver of health inequality right across the country . in the most deprived area , the mortality rate ascribe to smoking be more than double that in the least deprived area , as we have hear . this Bill be about not just health but alleviate the economic burden on our healthcare system . accord to action on Smoking and Health , smoking - relate illness cost the NHS £ 1 . 9 billion each year in England alone . in Mid Cheshire , the cost of smoking exceed £ 52 million annually , and more than £ 2 million in direct healthcare cost alone . by curb tobacco use , we can alleviate some of that financial strain and redirect those resource towards more urgent health need . invest in prevention be far more cost - effective than treat disease cause by tobacco . in the time that I have , I want to focus on the regulation of vaping in the Bill . it be important to strike the right balance between reduce harm from tobacco and protect young people . vaping have a role to play in help adult to quit smoking , and there be estimate that as many as an extra 70 , 000 people in England quit smoking by use vape as an aid . however , youth vaping have more than double in the last five year , while almost six time more 11 to 17 - year - old vape now than do a decade ago . many vaping product have very clearly be target at child through their packaging , flavour and marketing . while vaping be less harmful than tobacco , the vast majority of vape liquid still contain nicotine , which be highly addictive and more impactful on child ' s brain when they be try to quit . many of the long - term health effect of inhaled ingredient such as colouring and flavouring be unknown . it be our responsibility to safeguard the health of our community , particularly our child , who be vulnerable to the allure of smoking and vaping . I certainly welcome the Bill ' s emphasis on more responsible regulation of vape product . the power for the Secretary of State to require producer to produce study on the ingredient of their product will be a vital tool in demonstrate the long - term effect of what be be put into vaping liquid . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be a crucial piece of legislation that aim to tackle a critical public health challenge . it will promote informed choice and alleviate economic burden , and ultimately help we achieve our ambition of create a smokefree UK . that be why I be proud to support this important Bill . I notice from the open comment that the opposition have a free vote on the legislation , as do the Lib Dems . I assure the Minister that the Ulster Unionist party group in this House be 100 % behind the Bill , which mean : I be . I sincerely hope it be second time lucky for the Bill . prior to get elect to this House , I be the Minister of Health in Northern Ireland in the re - establish Assembly when it come back in February 2024 . the Bill be then go through this House . despite hugely challenging pressure , there be a much appreciated latitude from the public health Minister , Andrea Leadsom , who work with the devolved administration to ensure that the Bill have a four - nation approach . I thank the Government for continue that approach . as the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) describe happen in Scotland , a legislative consent motion go through the Northern Ireland Assembly . more importantly , it receive the full support of the four party in the Northern Ireland Executive . it be only right and proper that the profound public health benefit be extend to Northern Ireland . like Scotland , Northern Ireland be include in the UK - wide consultation exercise , which close in December 2023 . there be particularly strong support for the measure from the people back home . the consultation receive a proportionately high response rate from the Northern Ireland population than the UK - wide population . while 62 . 5 % of UK respondent be in favour of an ambitious smokefree generation proposal , the Northern Ireland figure stand at 79 % . that be by far the great support from among the UK region . support be also much high in Northern Ireland for a range of other proposal , such as restrict vape flavouring and display . some of the flavour that attract child have be mention . there be also a move towards flavour , label and name that appeal to old age group . we now have " Brain Freeze " and " Killer Kustard . " the producer be move on from young people who be already addicted to early teen , and be make sure that their addiction embed . it be important that this Bill address that . while I be glad of the support that many of the measure have receive across Northern Ireland , we need to remain mindful of the fact that if pass , the Bill will be a literal lifesaver for decade to come . tobacco use be a lead cause of health inequality in Northern Ireland . it be a tragedy , but an avoidable one , that the lung cancer incidence rate in the most deprived area of Northern Ireland be about two and a half time the rate in the least deprived area . a recent health inequality report from the Department of Health in Northern Ireland show that the gap between the healthy life expectancy of woman in the most deprive area and those of woman in the least deprived stand at 14 . 2 year — not month , but year . that differential will be deal with by this Bill and other like it . moreover , smoking rate in the most deprived area be typically almost three time high than the rate in the least deprived . I therefore fully support any and all effort to dissuade people , especially young people , from take up the habit in the first place . this Bill go even far than the one that fall before the last general election . I will be honest and admit that at the time , I be hugely frustrate that the previous Bill be not give the time to succeed , and I fear that a once - in - a - generation chance to do something transformative might have be miss . look at the Bill now , however , I be pleased to see that , rather than potential be lose , it have the potential to be even more impactful , give all its enhancement . Mike Nesbitt , my successor as Minister of Health and the leader of my party , have be able to use the little extra time to consider the licensing provision carefully . while Northern Ireland ' s tobacco retailer register be a helpful enforcement tool , it have limitation , and a new licensing regime would be another significant step forward for my constituent . I acknowledge that , like its predecessor , this Bill be complicate by our somewhat messy post - brexit arrangement , but I take reassurance from this Government and the last government on that , because surely they can not both be wrong . it be a pleasure to follow such powerful contribution from member on both side of the House — from my hon . friend the Members for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , for worthe West ( Dr Beccy Cooper ) and for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , and the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) — as well as the entire Ulster Unionist party delegation in the form of the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) . I support this landmark legislation , which be an important step towards deliver on this Government ' s manifesto commitment to ensure that the next generation can never legally buy cigarette , and to create the first smokefree generation . this be an overdue natural step towards tackle the scourge of smoking , which claim about 80 , 000 life a year in the United Kingdom . smoking be the no . 1 preventable cause of death , disability and ill health in our United Kingdom , and it be responsible for one in four cancer death , kill up to two third of smoker . in Wales , tobacco cause 3 , 100 cancer case every year , and smoking be still the lead cause of cancer there . however , cancer do not respect border , so the Bill will serve the health interest of our entire United Kingdom . I welcome that , and I also welcome the Welsh Government ' s commitment to support this legislation and bring it into force in Wales from 2025 . in fact , the Welsh Government have be well ahead of the curve on this issue . as far back as 2016 , my constituency colleague Mark Drakeford present legislation that would have ban e - cigarette use in public space , but it fall owe to shameless politicking on the part of Plaid Cymru — whose member , I note , have not be present at all for this important debate . rather than agree with the Welsh Government and introduce what would have be landmark public health legislation , Plaid Cymru ' s member be join by the Welsh Conservatives and the Members of the United Kingdom Independence party — remember they ? — all of whom describe it as unnecessary Government regulation . Plaid Cymru side with the populist right in Wales to make a political point , and the people of Wales be bad off because of it . undeterred , in 2021 the Welsh Government launch their tobacco control action plan , which include action to protect child and young people from the danger of vaping , such as tight regulation on advertising and on the sale of e - cigarette . that be a clear sign that the Welsh Government take this issue seriously , and it be our responsibility here in Westminster to support and complement those effort . this Bill illustrate that this Government take seriously their commitment to create the first smokefree generation , and to protect child from become hook on vaping . let we be clear : vaping be not harmless . in 2023 , action on Smoking and Health estimate that 20 . 5 % of child age 11 to 17 have try vape . although vaping can be an effective way for adult to quit smoking , vaping can not be recommend for child , as it carry a serious risk of addiction and future harm . accordingly , rather than be a deterrent to smoking , vaping will see more child , not few , be expose to nicotine if leave unregulated . that be why the measure set out in the Bill to implement a total ban on vape advertising and sponsorship , and , subject to consultation , on the sale of vape flavour that overtly appeal to child , be so important . I fully support they . this Bill be legislation that our teacher , headteacher , medical professional and health service be all call for . the vaping industry have be allow to attract kid with different flavour and bright packaging . we would not allow that with any other addictive drug , and we should not allow it with vaping . in addition , the Bill do not deal with an aspect of vape that I would be grateful for the Government to consider as the Bill continue its passage through Parliament . currently , police officer do not have specific power to confiscate vape from child — a power that they do have with traditional cigarette , pursuant to section 7 ( 3 ) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 . have speak to South Wales police officer and police community support officer , I know that the power of confiscation be an important tool that they use to deal with antisocial behaviour in designate area of Cardiff , but their work be neuter if they can not confiscate vape . although I recognise that if this Bill be pass , such power will not be necessary in time — indeed , it will omit section 7 ( 3 ) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 from 2027 onwards — I ask the Government to consider whether it would be useful to retain the power of confiscation and expand it to include vape for the period between now and 2027 , so that our police officer have the same legal power across cigarette and vape as a tool in their armoury to combat antisocial behaviour . aside from that specific point , I reiterate my support for this important piece of legislation . not only will it align this Parliament with the progressive action of the Welsh Government on such important health matter ; it will bolster our commitment in this place to safeguard public health . in so do , it will save many thousand of life from the scourge of cancer and protect child from become hook on vaping . I will vote for this Bill . I admit that I be sceptical about the enforceability of the age escalator , but fundamentally the legislation address a huge problem in our society . there can be no doubt that smoking be a killer , so it be our responsibility to seek to diminish the death toll . vaping be a totally unregulated sector , and I fear that it be a gateway to smoking for many young people . therefore , it be right that it , too , come within the ambit of the Bill . the Secretary of State say this afternoon that this be a " four - nation Bill " . I welcome that , and I trust that it be right . that be the point I want to test in my contribution , and I will seek reassurance from the Minister about it . the reason I want to test it be that Northern Ireland , and Northern Ireland alone , be still subject to the EU ' s tobacco directive . we be subject to the EU ' s tobacco directive because it be one of the 289 EU law list in annex 2 of the protocol — or the Windsor framework , as it be now call — that remain in force in a part of this United Kingdom . article 24 of the tobacco directive say : " Member States may not … prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of tobacco or related product " . do this Bill , by its necessary step , restrict the placing on the market of tobacco ? if it do , it will fall foul of the tobacco directive and will therefore be unenforceable in Northern Ireland , because of our ridiculous subjection to foreign law that we do not make and can not change . we have an illustration of what might happen , because in 2022 Denmark seek to introduce almost identical legislation . it have to withdraw it , and in withdraw it , the Health Minister tell the Danish Parliament on 6 April 2022 : " the ministry … therefore consider that a ban on the sale of tobacco and nicotine product to people bear in 2010 or later would require an amendment to the European Tobacco Products Directive " . on that basis , they withdraw it . early this year , the Irish Republic be minded to introduce legislation like this , but it do not proceed for the same reason . if we be in a situation where a part of this United Kingdom quite absurdly can not be govern by law that this Parliament wish to make , we be in a very sad situation indeed . it be my fear that , like in Denmark , the imprimatur would not be forthcoming from the tobacco directive and we could therefore have a situation where law that we want to make and apply throughout the United Kingdom can not be apply because of our subservience to foreign jurisdiction . if that be so , it will be an appalling situation . the House will have an opportunity to do something about this when my private Member ' s Bill come before it on 6 December , and I trust that member will take that opportunity to liberate Northern Ireland from the bind of foreign jurisdiction and foreign law . there be vested interest who will try to challenge the Bill ' s applicability in Northern Ireland because of the tobacco directive , and I be fearful of the line that the court might take , because we have have some example . this House pass — for well or for bad — the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . it also pass the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . I be not comment on their merit ; I be make it clear that when they go to the High Court in Belfast , both be declare inoperable in Northern Ireland . why ? because of the supremacy of EU law . if that be to happen with this Bill , it would be an absolute scandal . we would not be able to afford the people of Northern Ireland the same health protection that the Bill will afford to everyone else in the United Kingdom . and why not ? because we be subject to a foreign jurisdiction . it be the lifting of that jurisdiction that will bring we liberty to be govern as this House would wish we to be govern , and I trust that the Minister will be able to assure we that those fear be unfounded , that the Danes be wrong to withdraw their Act , and that our court will — I be grateful to the hon . and learn Gentleman for give way . I fully understand his concern . that be why this Government need to give credit to the previous Government , who work so hard to make this a four - nation approach . I want to give he and the House the assurance that it be the responsibility of the UK Government to ensure the compatibility of the Bill with the Windsor framework . the Government have take into account all domestic and international obligation in bring forward this Bill today . it give I no assurance if the Government ' s commitment be to ensure compliance with the Windsor framework , because it be the Windsor framework that impose EU law on Northern Ireland . because the tobacco directive be one of the law list in annex 2 that continue to apply to Northern Ireland , it could trump this Bill . there be no point in the Government say to this House , or to my constituent , that they will abide by the Windsor framework , because the Windsor framework bind we to EU law . it be only by set it aside that we can have liberty . I be sorry to detain the House , but I make it clear that this be a United Kingdom law . it cover all four nation of the United Kingdom , and we be assure that it comply with the requirement of the Windsor framework . this law will stand . the previous Government tell this House — and Government lawyer probably say the same — that the Rwanda Act would apply to Northern Ireland and that the legacy Act be unchallengeable , yet it turn out that both fall under the supremacy of EU law . on the face of it , the tobacco directive suppresse this Bill and still have legal force in Northern Ireland . if that be how it turn out , I would like to hear a commitment from the Minister that the Government will override any suppression of this law in Northern Ireland and stand up for UK sovereignty in my part of the United Kingdom . it be a privilege to speak in this debate on a Bill that deliver on our manifesto commitment to finish the job start by the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) at the back end of the last Parliament . we should be proud that , once the Bill receive Royal Assent , it will be the most advanced legislation of its kind in the world . I should declare at the outset that I be a smoker , and that experience give I particular clarity on the need for change . I be also honour to be vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . I will use my six minute to say a little about why this Bill be so necessary and — I hope the Minister do not mind — to gently set out where I think it could go far . we often hear that smoking be about choice . the only choice I make be to have my first cigarette at the age of 15 and then , almost 15 year and thousand of cigarette later , the much more difficult choice to finally give up . accord to the wonderful Action on Smoking and Health , which have be quote widely in this debate , the majority of smoker wish they have never start , and it take , on average , 30 attempt to quit . this legislation will ensure that future generation in this country , include in Dartford , will not have their freedom to choose steal by a deadly addiction . the late figure , before their collection be interrupt by the pandemic , show that in Kent , nearly 6 , 000 people die from smoking between 2017 and 2019 , with 10 , 000 hospital admission due to smoking during 2019 and 2020 alone . before be elect to this place , I be , for many year , a local councillor work on public health issue , and I see at first hand the burden that smoke place on my local community . now that I have the great honour of represent the wonderful constituency of Dartford , I see smoking take a similar toll . no matter where we be in the country , we will hear the same story of love one lose too soon , of people become addict as child and of the most disadvantaged group bear the heavy burden . we can not , and must not , accept a situation in which more than 74 , 000 death a year be attributable to smoking . we now know , with more clarity than ever , the damage that smoking cause . smoking can lead to at least 16 different type of cancer , and it cost England £ 21 . 8 billion in 2023 , mainly in lose economic productivity . we have a chance to change this . modelling by the Department of Health and Social Care estimate that raise the age of sale by one year every year will prevent almost 500 , 000 case of stroke , heart disease , lung cancer and other lung disease by the end of the century . it will save ten of thousand of life and help untold number of people to lead healthy and more enjoyable life . an issue that often come up when discuss measure of this nature be how we make they enforceable . the legislation enjoy widespread public support , with 69 % of the public in favour of the measure , accord to polling undertake by YouGov for ASH early this year , and even a slim majority of smoker in favour , which indicate that many smoker recognise that we do not want the next generation to grow up addict to smoking . the measure command high level of public support , and when such policy be do with and not to people , compliance be self - enforcing and high . turn to where the Bill might go a little far , I welcome the additional power to create smokefree outdoor space and to designate smokefree place as vape - free . however , I admit slight disappointment that the Government seem to have rule out hospitality premise from the scope of the regulation , rather than set out option via a consultation about how we might proceed . I hope the Minister will recognise that there be option other than an outright ban . as the number of smoker in the UK continue to decline , there be discussion to be have about how we use public space and protect individual from second - hand smoke , particularly child and those with health condition . from my time in local government , I know that council can play a vital role in improve the health of their community . council across the country have use the pavement licensing system to create smokefree outdoor space . that have prove popular with business and customer , particularly family with child . I gently urge the Minister to consider whether the Bill might be amend to allow local authority to decide which additional space , beyond those regulate nationally , they might like to make smokefree in the good interest of community . my final point , which reflect those make by other hon . member , be about the " polluter pay " principle . we all know that public finance be under significant strain . if the funding we desperately need to create a smokefree country can not be find in our exist budget , I would urge Ministers to consider the imposition of a " polluter pay " levy on tobacco manufacturer . I be a smoker for 15 year , I have vape for 12 year and I have three child under 12 , who I hope will follow neither habit . I support the ambition to create a smokefree society . the harm to individual be clear , as smoke cause 80 , 000 death per year , and the cost to the country be just as clear , with smoking cost the economy nearly £ 22 billion a year . however , I have concern about the ability of retailer to enforce the age escalator proposal . will the Minister look at increase the age at which people can buy tobacco by a year every year , rather than link it to when a child be bear ? that would mean that people of the same age would have the same right , rather than two people be 37 , for example , and one not be able to purchase tobacco because of exactly when they be bear during the year . my big concern about the Bill be the inclusion of vape , alongside tobacco . vaping be the fast grow smoking - cessation method , and evidence have find that it be twice as effective as other tool use to stop smoke . I take part in the statutory instrument debate on 13 November and I support the ban on disposable vape that that regulation enact . the regulation will reduce the number of child vape , the amount of dangerous fake vape and the impact on the environment . however , the Bill could go too far on vaping . the all - party parliamentary group on responsible vaping have provide a useful briefing . I believe the House will pass the Bill ' s Second reading later today , so I ask hon . member to look at the briefing before we get to Committee . part 5 , clause 92 of the Bill have the ability to undo the Government ' s ambition of a smokefree country , by potentially ban flavour under a future statutory instrument . a study of more than 20 , 000 vaper show that those who start with flavour vape or move from tobacco to flavour vape be more likely to quit smoking . that be my experience too . I first purchase a refillable vape in France , which come with a tobacco flavour and a cherry flavour . I go back to the g î te with my friend where we be on holiday . I know what tobacco taste like — I have my cigarette in my pocket — so I try the cherry flavour and enjoy it so much that I never open the tobacco - flavour vape pot . I take the cigarette I have in my pocket back home to England . they be on my bedside table for six month , after which I screw the packet up and throw it away . I have not have a cigarette since . I honestly feel that the provision in the Bill for Ministers to be able to ban flavour for adult go too far . for the record , I vape something call blueberry sour raspberry . it be not aim at child — I buy it from a specialist vape shop where customer have to be over 18 . I have the bottle in my pocket and it have no bright colour or fancy graphic on it . that be my preference as an adult to vape and it stop I want to pick up a cigarette again . if the Bill pass its Second Reading this evening , clause 92 should require that vape flavour be regulate with a balance between the impact on adult who would otherwise be smoke and the potential for youth uptake . hon . member should remember that disposable vape have already be ban by the statutory instrument pass a couple of week ago . finally , before minister use the affirmative resolution procedure on any of the Bill ' s part or clause , I urge they to undertake a comprehensive , evidence - base approach to vape regulation . I will not vote against the Bill at this stage , but I hope the Government be open to practical amendment in Committee that support the ambition to have a smokefree generation without penalise those who already rely on vape to lead a healthy lifestyle . we have three remain contribution from Back - Bench Members . this be fair notice for colleague who have contribute to the debate to make their way to the Chamber for wind up . I call Kirith Entwistle . I declare that I be a member of the responsible vaping APPG . this be a long overdue and important piece of legislation , and I commend my hon . and right hon . friend on the Front Bench for bring it before the House . my home of Bolton be confront a dual crisis : the devastating impact of smoking and the escalate problem of youth vaping . smoking continue to ruin life and place a heavy burden on our NHS , which many of my hon . friend and hon . member from across the House have also mention . in Bolton North East , the crisis be deeply personal . More than 14 % of our population still smoke , which be well above the national average . tragically , between 2017 and 2019 , smoking claim the life of 1 , 147 people in our community , include beloved parent , sibling and friend , leave behind grieve family and steal future . beyond its devastating human toll , smoking impose an immense economic burden on Bolton North East . nearly £ 100 million be drain every year in lose productivity and increase demand on health and social care . we desperately need that money to rebuild service and support local family . I be proud that the Bill take critical step to address the harm of smoking and work towards create the first smokefree generation . yet while smoking be a crisis we know well , there be a new and grow threat : the epidemic of child vaping . in the late Greater Manchester : Testing and Research on Emergent and New Drugs young person survey , 76 % of respondent report use a nicotine vape in the past year . Schoolchildren be now twice as likely to encounter nicotine through vaping as through cigarette or tobacco . flavour such as bubble gum and rainbow candy pair with colourful , cartoon - like packaging be blatantly target child . flavouring play an undoubtedly important role in help adult to quit smoking , but we must be honest about how too many vape be be deliberately design as a gateway to nicotine for child who have never smoke . I welcome the measure include in the Bill outline by the Secretary of State early , and I be pleased to see our government take the issue seriously . as a mother , I look forward to further discussion on how we can protect our child while continue to support adult who be use vaping as a tool to quit smoking . what concern I most be how easily young people can obtain vape , many of which be illegal and unregulated . in Bolton , we now have the second high number of vape store per capita in the country . that be more than twice the national average . although most store operate within the law , this widespread availability create opportunity for illegal vape to enter the market — vape that violate safety standard , contain unsafe ingredient and pose serious health risk to our child . do the hon . Lady share my concern that there be a real problem with vape be use in the coercion of child for groom purpose as well ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and , yes , I share those concern quite deeply . Bolton council have be do excellent work to clamp down on illegal vape . in September , 350 vape be seize in raid across five location in Bolton . just this month , a shop receive a closure order for sell illegal tobacco and vape . I be pleased that this Bill respond to the need of council such as Bolton by introduce new power for trading standard officer that will tackle the black market while protect legitimate business . the Bill be a commitment to the health and wellbeing of our community and our future generation . it take into account the need for the safeguarding of our child . for the family who have lose love one to smoking - relate illness , for the school that have be overwhelm by the vaping epidemic , and for the young people be target by unscrupulous marketing , this Bill be for they and I commend it to the House . it be a rare thing in politic to have a moment when there be an absolute right thing to do , but consign smoking to the history book for our child , our grandchild and every generation that follow be one of those time . we should be under no illusion that the decision that we take today will , at some point in the future — long after we have leave this place — result in a time when nobody smoke . that will be the legacy of this decision today . I ask the House to indulge I for a moment . let we imagine that , at that point in the future , somebody bring forward a Bill to decriminalise smoking , and the Minister , clutch their impact assessment , tell the House that it will kill only 80 , 000 people a year , that it will cost our NHS £ 3 . 6 billion and that 80 % of the people who take it up will be under 20 . which one of we would vote for it ? which party leader would refuse to direct their troop in such a vote ? who would argue that it be freedom of choice to smoke in those circumstance ? it be nonsense . the decision we be take today be clear and it be for the good of this country . the hon . member talk about choice . I agree with what he have say so far , but do he agree that , when it come to the banning of smoking for people bear after 1 January 2009 , there be no removal of choice in the Bill , because they can not smoke anyway at the moment ? therefore , there be no removal of choice from those people . the hon . member be completely correct in what he say , and it be the proportionate way to do it . some of the argument that I have hear today about freedom of choice be genuinely confusing . one Member ask early why we do not ban sugary food or alcohol on that basis . I say that we have to draw the line somewhere . that be an argument for the decriminalisation of everything — cocaine , heroin , you name it , let ' s go for it . no , we have to draw the line somewhere and , give the statistic around smoking , it be clear that this be the right line to draw . I do not want to say a great deal more on this issue other than to reflect on the conversation that I have have with my child . we have be on a long journey when it come to smoking in this country . I remember tell my child that they could eat a meal in a restaurant , and that those on the table next to they , in the smoking zone , would be smoke while they eat . they think I be mad . I remember go to school on the bus and see the little cigarette holder in front of I because people use to be able to smoke on the bus . my child think that be madness . I can only hope that not long in the future child will look back and think that it be mad that we smoke at all . I be ask about this Bill soon after I be elect by a friend , who be a parent . he know it have fall prior to the general election . he ask , " will it be back ? " and I say , " I be confident that it will be back . " he say , " but will it be in time ? " and I say , " in time for what ? " he say , " in time for she " and point to his teenage daughter . I be pleased to say to Mark , Kim and their daughter Bella that we be bring it back in time and that it will make a massive difference to the life of people in this country . I would like to place on the record my support for the Bill , which the Government be right to describe as the big public health intervention in a generation . as someone who grow up around the NHS , with my first job be at Bolton hospital , I have see at first hand the huge cost of smoking and vaping in my constituency . in Bolton , smoke claim around 380 life a year . across the UK , that number be 80 , 000 , and tobacco - relate illness put tremendous pressure on the NHS , with smoke responsible for one in four cancer death . indeed , every single minute someone be put in hospital because of smoking . the appointment , the scan , the treatment — it all add up . smoking cost the taxpayer over £ 3 billion each year in healthcare bill . the tide of public opinion have turn irrevocably . eight in 10 Greater Manchester adult support end smoking , accord to the Make smoking history campaign . I suspect that many have have family or friend impact by smoking - relate harm . five year ago , the previous Government announce their ambition for England to be smokefree by 2030 . despite a stark warning from the Khan review in 2022 that " without further action , England will miss the smokefree 2030 target by at least 7 year " , I find it regrettable that the Conservatives do not get round to these literal life - and - death reform before it be too late to legislate before the general election . I be delighted that just a few month in we be already deliver on our manifesto pledge . a generational ban on purchase tobacco for anyone bear after 1 January 2009 , new regulation for the extension of smokefree area to include our school and hospital , and new restriction on oral tobacco product such as snus be hugely welcome in our fight against smoking - relate illness . the Bill be hugely important , and I will focus the remainder of my remark on vaping in particular . as my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) note , Bolton be regrettably one of the two vaping capital of the UK , with over 20 vape shop register per 100 , 000 people accord to reporting in the Bolton News . vaping can be a genuine aid for those seek to wean themselves off smoking , but while it be clear that vape , in combination with behavioural support , can support quitting , the health advice be unambiguous : child and adult who have never smoke should never vape . what disturb I be that vape product be obviously market at child . indeed , a number of vape store in Horwich and Westhoughton in my constituency be not only garish eyesore but directly associate vape with sweet and toy in their shop front . I have no doubt that many of my colleague in the Chamber will be familiar with similar store in their own constituency . it be clear that bubble gum and candy floss flavour be not aim at those adult genuinely try to wean themselves off tobacco . this be not harmless ; youth vaping have more than double in the past five year , while Bolton council have be tell that child as young as 13 be unable to go an hour at school without vape . just last Friday , I visit St Catherine ' s primary school in Horwich and be shock to hear child no old than 11 directly raise their concern around vape with I . St Joseph ' s high school in Horwich , which I have the pleasure of meeting last week here in Parliament , have have to install vape sensor , while the headmaster Tony McCabe have say he have already see a rise in young people acquire vape from the black market . I hope the Minister will consider how to tackle the already expand black market for these product . that be why I especially welcome the measure in the Bill to provide the Secretary of State with power to regulate vaping product , include their content , flavour , packaging and product requirement . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about illegal tobacco and other substance . it be really important that we bear down on that illicit trade . illegal tobacco not only deprive the Exchequer of fund but mean that all kind of other nefarious activity can take place in the shop that sell it . also , the illegal cigarette sell do not extinguish . a few year ago in my constituency there be a house fire with fatality as a direct result of illegal cigarette . I thank the right hon . member for his contribution . I will take assurance from the Minister on that when he wind up . I place on record my enthusiasm for the separate ban on single - use vape from June 2025 , which the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) mention . as other member have note , not only be they particularly cheap and therefore accessible to young adult , but they be an inefficient use of critical resource , difficult to recycle and frequently litter around the countryside . by introduce these world - lead reform , we can create a smokefree generation and break the cycle of addiction and disadvantage . I be proud that it be a Labour Government who be deliver this legislation . we come to the shadow Minister . Prevention be well than cure . as we have hear , smoking be a cause of many premature death and much serious ill health . that be why the previous Government introduce legislation to tackle it and restrict access to tobacco purchase for those bear after 1 January 2009 . this Bill build on many measure in the previous one . as we have hear , this be a Bill of two part : tobacco and vape . those two part have be receive differently , a bit like Marmite and chocolate spread — part controversial , part pretty universally like . the section on smoking and tobacco have prove to be a bit like Marmite — some people have like it . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) speak eloquently of his passion for stop - smoking measure , his successful campaigning , and the previous Government ' s success in reduce rate of smoking . my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) speak eloquently about the balance between libertarianism and choice , and the need for order , societal norm and the protection of other in society . the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) speak about the danger of smoking and the difficulty and challenge for people try to quit . on the other hand , other Members express concern about the Bill . the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) talk about how the Secretary of State might use power relate to outside place where people may smoke . the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) share his concern about how measure on the age of sale will work in practice . those will indeed be clunky measure for shopkeeper to try to enforce , and will have an effect on the cohort of individual who be just either side of the threshold , who will require ID throughout their life . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) speak about how that measure will work in Northern Ireland , and although he receive some assurance from the Minister , I be not sure that they be completely effective . although I confess that I do not like Marmite , it be a free vote this evening for Conservative Members , and I will support the Bill . the Secretary of State say in open that 350 young people will start smoke today , most of whom will regret it , so why be 1 January 2009 choose ? I appreciate that that be the date in the previous Bill , but why do he choose it for his Bill too ? let I move on to the area of chocolate spread — the part of the Bill on vaping . I think it be universally welcome , and be support by the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) and for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) among other . it include measure to tackle vaping among child , on which I have personally campaign . as other have say , the chief medical officer have be clear that for someone who smoke , vaping may be well , but if they do not smoke , they should not vape . as a Member of Parliament and a child ' s doctor , I have be increasingly concerned about the sharp increase in child addict to vaping and , more recently , to other nicotine product such as pouch . schoolteacher have report that child be unable to concentrate , or even complete a whole lesson , without visit the bathroom to vape . I very rarely disagree with my hon . friend . she be of course right about vaping , the effect that it have on child and the difficulty that school have in manage it , as headteacher will no doubt have tell member across the House , but can she really go into the Division Lobby to support the Bill with this nonsense about age ? the idea that someone age 30 could smoke and someone age 29 could not , and the idea that that could be police or manage in any practical way , be just nonsensical . it be daft when the last Government introduce it , and it be daft now this Government have do so . the challenge be that if we be to ban it altogether , we could risk criminalise people who be already addict to tobacco product — adult who have make that choice . that be the reason why both present and past government put forward a measure to increase the age gradually , but I understand the point that have be make about the difficulty for shopkeeper and other in enforce it over time . I return to vaping . doctor report a grow body of evidence suggest that child may be have difficulty in school and suffer health problem as a result of vaping . a report from Healthwatch say that 31 % of the more than 4 , 000 under - 18 it survey be regularly vape . nicotine be a powerfully addictive product . young people be particularly susceptible to it , so it be very important that we protect child from vaping and other nicotine product . after all , vaping be an adult activity ; it be apparently design to help smoker quit . while the industry may argue that the flavour and colour be enjoy by adult — and they may well be — I struggle to understand why adult would want a vape flavour like a unicorn milkshake , whatever a unicorn ' s milk taste like . the Healthwatch survey show that fruit flavour be very popular with child , and the same have be repeat by various teaching union , the British Medical Association , of which I be a member , Cancer Research UK and even a Government report from last year . I also do not see why an adult stop - smoke device need to be disguise in the form of a highlighter pen , which could perhaps be hide in a child ' s pencil case , or create in the shape of a child ' s cartoon character . entice and lure child into a lifetime of unwanted and potentially harmful addiction be immoral . the Secretary of State be take power to regulate the flavour , colour and packaging of vape , but how will he ensure that he stay one step ahead of an industry whose income depend on a new generation of addict ? he have take quite extensive power , which I know be of concern to some hon . and right hon . member , but how and when do he intend to use they ? what support will be give to child who be already addict to vape to help they quit ? finally , while this be a free vote issue , I be pleased on a personal level to see some of the proposal that I put forward on the last Bill be incorporate into this one , particularly on the sponsorship and advertising of vend machine . whatever our view on this Bill , it be a bold piece of legislation of good intention . it aim to improve the health of our nation and of our child in particular and to reduce smoking and prevent nicotine addiction in the young . it be not clear whether it will work , but we have to hope , for the health of all of we and our child , that it do . it be a pleasure to close this debate on behalf of the Government . I commend my hon . friend the Members for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) , for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) , for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) and for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and , on the Opposition Benches , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) , for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) , for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) and for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) , for a series of outstanding contribution this afternoon . many of we on the Labour Benches remember the last Labour Government ' s proud history of public health measure — indeed , some of we be in this place at the time . from the indoor smoking ban to put an end to cigarette advertising , we take the bold action to drive down smoking prevalence , and the country be still feel the benefit of those policy today . however , after 14 year of public health neglect , we have see much of our hard work squander . health inequality have grow bad , and life expectancy be stall . Most appallingly , life expectancy be go into reverse in some community . I welcome this Bill . some 6 , 000 child in Greater Manchester take up smoking each year , allow tobacco and vape company to profit from increase health inequality . if we eradicate smoking , Greater Manchester ' s economy will gain over £ 2 . 5 billion each year , fund that could be allocate to our health and social care sector . do the Minister agree that if we follow the recommendation of the smoking review by Professor Javed Khan OBE , who do an excellent job on that review , we have the unique opportunity to both save life and reduce poverty , create a healthy and more equal society ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution , not least because it allow I to place on record this Government ' s thank to Javed Khan for the work he do in his review of smoking . my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head , because in the part of Greater Manchester that he and I represent , health inequality be stark and visible . we be go to turn they around . our health mission pledge to tackle the social inequality that influence health , and to ensure that child have the very good start possible , in which they be give the building block for a healthy life . that will be an immense challenge , but every member of this Government be up for the battle . colleague have make a number of point , and I will try to answer as many as I can in the time we have leave . first , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Harrow East for the work he have do on this issue over a number of year . I assure he that all tobacco product be cover by this Bill , include the chew tobacco product that he refer to . my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham , who have also be a passionate spokesperson for tackle smoking harm , be absolutely right to raise the issue of article 5 . 3 . the new Labour Government take very seriously their obligation as a party to the World Health Organisation ' s framework convention on tobacco control , and we remain fully committed to that convention , include the important commitment , under article 5 . 3 , to protect public health policy on tobacco control from " commercial and other vested interest of the tobacco industry " . the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , refer to the power to bring in smokefree place . we will consult on extend smokefree place to include area outside school , child ' s playground and hospital in England . we believe that strike the right balance between protect the most vulnerable and recognise the pressure face the hospitality sector . I want to make the shadow Secretary of State aware , though , that the Bill be design in full consultation with , and to meet the need of , the devolve government across the whole of the United Kingdom . it be a UK Bill , with power that meet the requirement of each of the component part of our country , and I reiterate that as far as England be concern , this Government will seek to consult on school , child ' s playground and hospital only . a number of member , include the hon . member for Harrow East , raise the topic of stop smoke service . we be put an extra £ 70 million into local stop smoking service , which could help with up to 200 , 000 successful quit a year . we be still roll out a smokefree pregnancy incentive scheme , which will support pregnant woman in quit and ensure that more baby do not suffer a hit to their life chance before they be even bear . I be very sorry that I be not in the Chamber for the beginning of the debate . I have very strong view on this matter , because my father die of cancer — I quit 20 year ago , thank God . it occur to I that we have hear from other people who have quit , and that we who have quit could be mobilise to help other quit . why do the Government not use we ? we could do a lot of good and provide a lot of help . I think the hon . Gentleman have just talk himself into a job . he be absolutely right that the good people to advocate for stop smoking be former smoker . we will still encourage adult smoker to switch to vape through Swap to stop in England , and I be delighted that locality have ask for over half a million starter kit so far . on advertising regulation , of course the consultation will take place after Royal Assent , but I hope that I can assure the hon . member for Harrow East that we will take away his point about ensure that the NHS can still advertise Swap to stop under those regulation . [ Official Report , 2 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) on a tobacco industry levy , fiscal matter be for the Treasury , but I be sure that his view and those of other have be communicate to Treasury Ministers . the hon . member for Lewes mention the rise of the black market . this be a line that have be parrot by the tobacco industry for year , so we need to spell out the fact . whenever government of any guise have introduce target tobacco control measure , the black market actually have not prosper . consumption of illegal tobacco have go from 15 billion cigarette nearly 25 year ago to just one 10th of that amount last year , and when the last Labour Government raise the age of sale from 16 to 18 , the number of illicit cigarette fall by a quarter . however , this require well enforcement , and we will use every second of the generously long buffer period to support business in prepare for and implement the change , include through information campaign . we be provide £ 10 million to trading standard to increase their capacity and capability next year , and there be £ 100 million for Border Force and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs over the next five year to tackle illicit and under - age sale . the Bill also allow trading standard to issue on - the - spot fine of £ 200 , and to reinvest the proceed of those fine , and indeed the licensing regime , back into further enforcement . will the Minister consider ensure that the fine be raise by at least inflation each year ? fine could be increase on a scale , to make sure that they keep progress with change . we have already double the fine propose in the previous Government ' s Bill , which be a step . I listen very carefully to the hon . Gentleman ' s argument , and he might wish to pursue it in Committee , should he be fortunate enough to be a Committee member . I look forward to the debate we might have . a number of question about the licensing regime be pose by the shadow Secretary of State , as well as by the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and other . I reassure the House that across the sector , there be broad consensus among retailer about a licensing scheme ; more than four fifth of they have express their support . unlike alcohol , there be no licensing requirement for tobacco . a lot of people outside this House would find that hard to understand . they assume that convenience store , supermarket and other place that sell alcohol be license in a similar way to sell tobacco product , but that be not the case . we will bring in a licensing scheme , because we know that will have a huge public health impact , as other licensing regime do . when I be on a council , I have a portfolio manage licensing . council already manage significant licensing function , so it would be very convenient to simply add this function to those . that would not necessarily be a significant bureaucratic hurdle , as have be say . local government will take the lead on this matter , and we will consult widely on how we bring forward the licensing regime , and on how we implement it through secondary legislation , follow that consultation . an impact assessment will be prepare before the secondary legislation be introduce , but I want to work with local government across England — I be sure that ministerial counterpart in other part of the United Kingdom seek to bring in a licensing regime will do the same — to ensure that we get this right for local government . that include ensure that the cost of run a licensing regime be meet by the regime itself . we have mention the fact that local government be responsible for public health . I have have our director of public health email I just today to say how supportive they be of this Bill . local government want this opportunity to try to improve the health of local people . the fear that local government would be under pressure be simply wrong , be they not ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . from the engagement that I have have with member across all party in local government — elect member , officer and director of public health — I know that they want these measure . they be up for introduce they , and for help we to get they right . the hon . member for North Shropshire raise the issue of ID check , as do a number of other . I gently say to those who express a degree of scepticism that most retailer already follow recommend practice and regularly ask customer for ID . we be stop people from ever start smoking , and 83 % of smoker start before the age of 20 . that mean that someone who have never previously smoke be highly unlikely to want to take up smoking later in life . our publish modelling show that smoking rate in England for 14 to 30 - year - old could be close to 0 % as early as 2050 with the measure in this Bill . as a former teacher , I hope that the Government be work across department . will we work with the Department for Education to ensure that these conversation be have in our school , right from the beginning , at primary level , and all the way through ? that be absolutely crucial . with this legislation , we have to make sure that we do not take our foot off the pedal when it come to education and inform the next generation of child of the harm of smoking and vape through our public health initiative . my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South need a health service that move from sickness to prevention , so can my hon . friend confirm that this UK - wide Bill will impact my constituent ? have he have discussion with the Scottish Government about ensure its implementation north of the border ? that be an important point , and it allow I to place on record my thank to the Health Ministers in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland for how they have approach our desire to bring all part of the United Kingdom together to make a smokefree United Kingdom , not just a smokefree England , through this legislation . I hope that I can reassure my hon . friend that I have have incredibly fruitful conversation with the Health Minister in the SNP Scottish Government . she be as wed and commit to this Bill and its measure as we be in this House today . I be reassure that across the whole United Kingdom , we will be walk in step to ensure that the next generation of child never take up smoking . rise — I will not give way now , as I have to end my speech . I know that you be keep a careful eye on the clock , Madam Deputy Speaker . if I have have more time , I would have talk about the huge public health benefit of the Bill that will do so much to prevent death , dementia and disability in old age . I could have go into further detail about the economic benefit of the Bill , such as get people back into work and save untold sum of money for our NHS , but , from my perspective , the single most important thing that the Bill will do be tackle those stark inequality across our country , because this fight be personal to I . I have see the harmful effect of tobacco on the people around I my entire life . as a schoolboy , I be educate about the harm of smoking , but it do nothing to stop a number of my peer from get addict to cigarette . as an MP , I have see at first hand how tobacco have devastate deprive community across our country , not least in Greater Manchester . as the Minister for public health , I be determined to end the cycle of poverty and ill health , the blight of addition , disease and despair cause by smoking . no long will it sap the strength of our city — Stoke , Sunderland , Salford and so many other . this be the will of his Majesty ' s Government , this be the promise of the Bill , and I urge colleague across the House to vote with we to protect their constituent and do the right thing . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Victoria Atkins Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul davy Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Alex Easton Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord Peter Fortune Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins John Glen Mary Glindon Marie Goldman Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Helen Grant Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ben Spencer Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Mel Stride Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Gavin Williamson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Kate Dearden Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Josh Babarinde Kemi Badenoch Peter Bedford Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Lewis cock John Cooper Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Tim Farron will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Rachel Gilmour Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Danny Kruger Katie Lam Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Joy Morrissey Rebecca Paul David Reed Andrew Rosindell Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Edward Leigh Christopher Chope the House divide : Ayes 415 , Noes 47 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Tobacco and Vapes Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Tobacco and Vapes Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 30 January 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Tobacco and Vapes Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . Tobacco and Vapes Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) . that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , it be expedient to authorise — ( 1 ) the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act , and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Chris Elmore . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Ombudsman Scheme ) ( fee ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 20 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Climate Change that the draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Scheme ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 October , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . petition - pimp website and pay for sex I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent regard commercial sexual exploitation — the day after the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women , and on day two of the United Nations ' 16 day of activism . perpetrate primarily against woman and girl , the global trade in sexual exploitation be big than ever . we know that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and that this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that be free to advertise their victim with impunity . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Gower , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003020 ] Coastal Infrastructure : Scotland Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) Scotland ' s history be intertwine with our coastal community . from shipbuilde on the Clyde to fish off Peterhead and Fraserburgh , these area help fuel the UK ' s growth as a global power . close to my home , the Forth estuary have a proud industrial legacy . Longannet power station , near Kincardine , once power UK industry and , to this day , the Babcock dockyard in Rosyth play a pivotal role in naval shipbuilding . the Forth remain an active and busy waterway , with tanker and barge constantly on the move . none the less , in common with other area , the decline in industry in the Forth be obvious . in some place , industry have be partially replace by tourism , with 9 million visitor come to Fife last year and contribute £ 570 million to the local economy . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this issue . I congratulate he on secure his second Adjournment debate in two week , which be fantastic . as he will know , he and I — if we go back far enough — be gaelic cousin : I be descend from the Stewarts of the lowland of Scotland , who come across to Northern Ireland . it be very important for we in Northern Ireland and those across the Irish sea to have a relationship through tourism . do the hon . member agree that great support and funding for the ferry service between our two great country , and therefore for tourism , would only yield great connectivity and prosperity for both our nation ? I know that many people in my constituency go to Scotland every year for a holiday , and I be sure that the same apply in the other direction . I could not agree more . I have the pleasure of be in Belfast just a couple of week ago for a family occasion . I be not able to take the ferry on that short trip — sadly , I have to fly — but I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman ' s point . for coastal community in my constituency , such as Kincardine , Culross and Torryburn , tourism be indeed a welcome industry , with the Fife coastal path and the Pilgrim Way welcome thousand of people a year to enjoy the beautiful Fife coastline . across Scotland in 2022 , marine and coastal tourism be worth £ 633 million , provide a total of 31 , 000 job . however , although tourism be welcome by such community , it can bring difficulty as well . village that be never design to deal with hundred or thousand of visitor sometimes feel swamp , with local understandably resentful . the situation have not be aid over the year by SNP cut to local council budget , which have delay upgrade to critical infrastructure , include road , path , play park and other local facility . however , our coastal community be not just scenic backdrop but economic powerhouse , cultural treasure and key player in our green future . they need our continue support and investment . in August this year , the Prime Minister say that our coastal community be the lifeblood of Britain ' s maritime economy . from support international trade to drive innovation in renewable energy , these area must be at the heart of our plan to build a strong , green , and more prosperous future for the UK . I congratulate my hon . friend on obtain his second Adjournment debate . do he agree that in the transition away from industrial port and towards tourism , both the UK and Scottish Governments must invest to avoid the pressure of tourism hotspot ? we must use the full force of both government , and of capital , to invest in and change our port to make they fit for the green transition to renewable . give the challenge of climate change , do he agree that we must defend our coastal community and invest in causeway such as the Baleshare causeway in my constituency , and in port and harbour all around the coast , to make sure that they be defend from rise tide and the effect of climate change ? once again , I could not agree more . my hon . friend have the pleasure of represent one of the most beautiful part of the world , and I have be able to spend a bit of time there . he be absolutely correct about the challenge that our coastal community face , and programme such as Great British Energy have huge potential for green job . we must always make sure that the transition be carry out with sensitivity and in partnership with community wherever we can . the Prime Minister be someone with whom I would always choose to agree , and I could not agree more with his view on coastal community and the maritime economy . the national wealth fund announce by the Chancellor of the Exchequer be a potentially transformative opportunity for our coastal community , with at least £ 5 . 8 billion of the NWF ' s capital focus on sector such as port , green hydrogen , carbon capture , gigafactorie and green steel . I also congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . on offshore renewable , which I know he will be mention , scottish community will obviously have a huge amount to contribute . do he agree that we need to look for inclusion in the european energy market for those greatly expand offshore renewable ? do he also agree that we need to look into the issue of transmission charging ? I know he will be aware of that as well . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . give the additional co - operation we be see between the UK and Scottish Governments , with the UK Labour Government in power and reset that relationship , there will absolutely be opportunity to work together for the benefit of all part of the United Kingdom on energy . in 2022 , passenger and freight water transport be worth £ 250 million to the scottish economy and support 1 , 600 job . the port of Rosyth in my constituency currently handle 600 , 000 tonne of bulk cargo , range across a variety of income , include road salt , which have be much need in the past week . it be definitely require in Fife , as I find out on my trip to the airport early this week . in addition , the port of Rosyth work with oil and gas company for the import and export of vital industrial component , and when I be near the port recently , I could also see turbine blade and other component for renewable energy sit on the dockside — a sign of the future , hopefully , for my constituency . the Rosyth waterfront , currently be clean up by the Scarborough Muir Group , be once home to a 250 , 000 - tonne capacity concrete tank and 5 , 000 - tonne steel tank , all use to fuel the fleet during world war two . the development of the site offer a far exciting glimpse into the possible future of the Fife coast , give the require sustained investment . the green freeport offer exciting opportunity up and down the Forth estuary on both side , with plan for Rosyth include additional freight and passenger transport and improve rail link option , all of which take freight off the road while at the same time provide new job and help we on the pathway to achieve net zero . over the long - term trend , the scottish marine economy contract by 14 % between 2013 and 2022 , a shocking decline for which both the SNP and Tory Governments must carry the can . we must do more to support our coastal economy , and there be one specific measure on which I would like to focus in the remainder of my time . between 2002 and 2018 , there be a direct ferry line from Rosyth to Zeebrugge operate as a passenger and freight service , and latterly as a freight - only service . I believe , as many of my constituent do , that now be the time to bring this project back . to that end , I have hold several discussion with those co - ordinate these effort , as well as with DFDS Ferries , which have say that it would like to bring the service back as soon as spring 2025 , but between Rosyth and Dunkirk instead . additional investment in the port of Dunkirk , include on facility and additional upgrading of freight and rail , make this an optimal moment to bring back this service from Scotland to Europe . the facility at Dunkirk be ready and the national wealth fund would appear to be the ideal opportunity for this Government to take the lead on develop the facility at Rosyth that be need to make that happen . never mind £ 5 . 8 billion , it could take as little as a £ 3 million investment in Rosyth to bring back a regular passenger and freight service between Scotland and mainland Europe , but time be of the essence if it be to be fully realise . with £ 3 million of funding , we could get a jump - start on all of this as soon as spring 2025 . this Government have say that they want to move quickly with investment that deliver . to my mind , there be no well example of that than get a passenger and freight ferry back up and run between Scotland and mainland Europe , with Rosyth perfectly position for the service . the infrastructure need be not extensive . all that be need be improvement of some of the access road , space for new security check and the installation of power and associate work . it be estimate that a direct ferry link would carry 51 , 000 passenger per year , rise to 79 , 000 , and bring an additional £ 11 . 5 million spend to the scottish economy each year . on freight , it be estimate that the route would begin by carry 22 , 000 freight unit per year , take 8 . 2 million km of freight traffic off UK road , with a corresponding reduction in carbon emission . the kind of increase passenger and freight link that I want to see in Rosyth would revitalise the economy not only in my constituency but across Fife more broadly and would support the Government ' s net zero ambition while underpin the Scotland Office ' s plan for Brand Scotland , sell Scotland to the world . I have speak to major employer in the constituency , include Amazon and Mowi , which have both say that they would welcome this ferry link as it would help their contribution to the local economy . Mowi play a key part in the Scotland Office ' s Brand Scotland effort by promote and sell scottish salmon to the world . there be other hurdle that would need to be overcome in order to finalise bring the service back to Rosyth , include address the failure of the SNP Scottish Government to amend the necessary legislation that would allow border control at Grangemouth to be use for Rosyth for certain freight . there be also the matter of the delay by the Scottish Government in confirm Transport Scotland fund for the waterborne freight grant . while the SNP continue to delay and make excuse at its end , this Labour Government have the opportunity to jump - start this process . the hon . Gentleman make a good point about the important Rosyth connection , and I pay tribute to he and his predecessor for their good work . he be always good natured about these thing , but he will notice that neighbouring Ireland have open up more than a dozen such route . why do he think that be ? do he think that membership of the single market would be enormously helpful in open up some of these route and far benefit our coastal community ? the hon . Gentleman be right that I should pay tribute to my predecessor , Douglas Chapman , who do much to champion this cause . my point be that we can do this in the current situation , and that be what we should be do as quickly as possible . this debate be about how to get investment back into our coastal community , and what well opportunity than a passenger and freight link between Rosyth and central Europe ? as I discuss with my hon . friend on the Front Bench prior to this evening ' s debate , I write to the Chancellor of the Exchequer at the start of October , but I receive a reply only very recently , and I suspect only because this debate be on the Order Paper . this be disappointing , particularly give the small amount of money and the deadline to make this project a reality in 2025 . of course , I do not expect my hon . friend to be able to make any commitment this evening , and I certainly do not expect he to speak on behalf of the Treasury . however , it be critical that the Government deliver for Scotland in a visible and meaningful way as quickly as possible , by progress project that furth Brand Scotland , which be a fantastic policy programme that sell Scotland to the world , benefit people across my constituency and across Scotland . what action be the Scotland Office take to bring the correct partner around the table to make the Rosyth to Dunkirk ferry a possibility as quickly as possible , so that the option of bring it back in 2025 can at least be seriously explore ? whether it be restore the Rosyth ferry , address infrastructure challenge or unlock the potential of initiative such as the green freeport , now be the time to act . by work together , we can ensure that our coastal community thrive for generation to come . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) on secure this debate . as other have say , this be his second Adjournment debate in a matter of week , so the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) might have some competition . I represent a coastal constituency , so I be pleased to respond on behalf of the Government . I be sure the whole House will agree when I say that the UK be bless with a wonderful coastline , and nowhere more so than in Scotland . as much as it might pain I as the MP for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West to admit that there be some beautiful stretch of coastline that be not in reach of Wemyss bay , Inverkip , Greenock , Gourock or Port Glasgow , I will grudgingly admit to my hon . friend that the Fife coastline be indeed beautiful and , as he have highlight this evening , have the potential to contribute to the growth of our economy , particularly through our world - class port . we have hear about his proposal for Rosyth , to which I will return later . port will play a crucial role in the development and deployment of the offshore energy project that be essential to meet our clean energy mission , as well as facilitate the international trade that be vital to meet our mission of turbocharge economic growth . it be therefore right that we support these community with the infrastructure they need to thrive . that be why the UK Government have announce the creation of the national wealth fund , back with £ 7 . 3 billion , include £ 5 . 8 billion of capital funding for five priority sector , include port infrastructure . this will drive investment in port across the country , deliver the change we need to achieve our mission of grow the economy . the national wealth fund will build on the work of the UK Infrastructure Bank , which have a strong track record of investing in port infrastructure across the UK . indeed , the national wealth fund be provide £ 50 million , which have be match by the Scottish National Investment Bank , towards a £ 100 million joint credit facility for the Ardersier port . this project demonstrate the potential of our national wealth fund investment . the site be currently the large brownfield port in the UK but , when complete , it will become a nationally significant infrastructure facility , span 450 acre . this game - change investment will redevelop the port , develop its capacity to deploy offshore wind infrastructure at an industrial scale , drive forward our net zero ambition . I make it clear to my hon . friend and other member that this project be just a start , and further detail on secure national wealth fund funding will be set out in due course . my hon . friend set out his vision for the port of Rosyth . I would be delighted to assist he , alongside official in the Scotland Office , in his engagement with the national wealth fund for project in his constituency . my right hon . friend the Chancellor have be crystal clear that if growth be the challenge , investment be the solution . that be why this Government will invest in the job , industry and infrastructure of the future through the national wealth fund and GB Energy . alongside that , our new industrial strategy , currently be develop by the UK Government in consultation with the Scottish Government , set a credible 10 - year plan to deliver the certainty and stability business need to invest in the high growth sector that will drive our growth mission . the strategy will take advantage of the UK ' s unique strength and untapped potential , enable our already world - lead sector to adapt and grow , and seize opportunity to lead in new and emerge area . many of the priority sector identify in the emerge strategy , such as clean energy and defence , will directly benefit and build on the strength of our coastal community . the strategy will take a place - base approach , drive growth in town , city and region around Britain . we will work tirelessly to deliver growth through this strategy for community across the UK . we will also look internationally for opportunity . as my hon . friend set out , increase export market for scottish business be crucial for our success . that be why we be committed to promote Brand Scotland around the world . indeed , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland be currently in south - east Asia meeting business and Government Ministers to encourage investment here at home . however , we can not go it alone . as other have say , we must work closely with the Scottish Government , combine our respective power to deliver on these ambition , which be why we be reset the relationship with the Scottish Government . across a range of area , we be work together with they to deliver for community and strengthen our economy . we be back the Scottish Government to deliver , with a record block grant of £ 47 . 7 billion for 2025 - 26 , with a furth £ 3 . 4 billion via the Barnett formula . that be the large settlement in real term since devolution begin . as a result of the decision that this Government have take , we have be able to confirm the UK Government ' s commitment to invest nearly £ 1 . 4 billion in important local project across Scotland over the next 10 year . I be delighted to say that that include £ 26 million for the Forth freeport , subject to full business case approval . the Forth green freeport be expect to support thousand of job and bring in million of pound of investment across its site in Edinburgh , Fife and Falkirk . local partner estimate that it could create up to 34 , 500 job and generate £ 7 . 9 billion of private and public investment over the next decade . my hon . friend mention that he have write to the Treasury regard possible upgrade to the port of Rosyth . I be aware that the Chancellor have recently respond to his correspondence and , as I say early , I would be delighted to assist he in engage with the national wealth fund . if he would like a further discussion with the Treasury on that subject , I would be happy to facilitate a meeting with my noble friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury for he to discuss the issue far . as my hon . Friend say , decision also need to be make by the Scottish Government . engagement and support from the Scottish Government and Transport Scotland will be necessary to deliver the project he mention . I encourage Scottish Government Ministers and official to engage closely with my hon . friend to discuss the proposal in more detail . I will do all I can to support he in fight for opportunity for growth in his constituency , and I know that both the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Minister for Scotland share this desire . may I once again pay tribute to my hon . friend , and to Members who have intervene in the debate ? I be sure they will join I in agree that this be a vital issue that we must get right to ensure scottish coastal community play their rightful role at the heart of this Government ' s ambitious agenda . question put and agree to . House adjourn .