thank you , Madame Deputy Speaker , for invite I to speak . like many colleague , I stand on the bank of my local river , the River Trent , during the general election campaign , and look out over the murky water , I promise resident that the next Government would change a broken system . this broken system have enable our water quality to drop to the point where only 14 % of river and lake in England have a good ecological status , accord to the Environment Agency . since be elect , hundred of resident of Rushcliffe have contact I to say they be concerned about our broken water and sewerage system , describe it as symptomatic of a break Britain . I be therefore pleased that today ' s Bill mark the start of a significant turnaround process for the health of our nation ' s water . local to Rushcliffe , the datum have be consistently go in the wrong direction . there be 471 sewage dump in my constituency in 2022 , and this more than double to 958 sewage dump in 2023 . the absolute number of sewage dump be of course a crude indicator , but , sadly , the cumulative impact have also grow from 3 , 733 hour in 2022 to 10 , 774 hour in 2023 . the direct impact on Rushcliffe resident be palpable , especially in village such as East Leake that be susceptible to flooding , which frequently include rural sewage . I welcome the work that Severn Trent be start to take by upgrade a nearby treatment work , double processing capacity by the end of March 2025 . however , for many resident this investment be far too late and should have be make year ago , in an era when water company be cream off profit and fail to act as true and honest custodian of the national water network . to that end , I encourage the Secretary of State and his team to think carefully about who we want to be the future custodian of our water network . if water and sewage company go under , I believe we — the state — should always be prepared to step in to offer a genuine public alternative to hedge fund and the like . as with rail and energy , we should be prepared to start a process whereby the state once again offer to play a more active role in run basic universal service , challenge private sector organisation that have happily pay out dividend while allow 3 billion litre of water every day to be lose through leaky pipe . fundamentally , I believe it be the right of each and every one of we to be able to enjoy our beautiful river , lake and sea without the fear of get sick . so on behalf of my constituent in Rushcliffe , I welcome the many positive measure in this Bill as it seek to enhance enforcement power and to start clean up our water for good . move forwards , there should be no more stick plaster fix , because , quite frankly , the very least that my constituent deserve be a water and sewage system fit for the 21st century .