Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Hospitality sector : Bicester and Woodstock what step he be take to support the hospitality sector in Bicester and Woodstock constituency . as this be my first time at the Dispatch Box , if I may I would like to thank my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . it be an honour to build on his work , particularly on employment right and championing fairness and dignity at work . hospitality business , include those in the constituency of the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , be vital to the UK economy , drive growth , create job , and strengthen our community . the Government be deliver target support under the small and medium - sized enterprise strategy to boost productivity , cut red tape and revitalise our high street . our £ 1 . 5 million hospitality scheme aim to help business boost productivity and adapt to local need , while the licensing taskforce seek to address unnecessary barrier that hospitality business face . furthermore , we plan to permanently reduce business rate for eligible retail , hospitality and leisure property . rise — order . just to help member , this question be purely about Bicester and Woodstock . I wish all the question be just about Bicester and Woodstock . I welcome the Minister to her place . Becky , who run the Red Lion in Eynsham , and Donna , who run the Oxfordshire Yeoman in Freeland , tell I that they be work upwards of 80 hour a week just to keep their pub open . despite loyal customer and rise turnover , they be struggle to meet soar bill from employment cost , food , energy , business rate and a tie tenancy , which mean that price be over £ 100 more per barrel . in small village across my constituency , pub be the lifeblood and fabric of the community . will the Minister meet Becky , Donna and I to discuss what more the Government can do to support the vital village pub ? I agree with the hon . member that pub be the lifeblood of our local community . we recognise the challenge face the hospitality sector , particularly our pub . they play such an important role in our local community as place where people can come together to celebrate , connect and build community , and that be especially true of the pub that he mention in his constituency . I would of course be happy to meet he and his pub manager to celebrate their contribution to his constituency . we continue to work closely with the Hospitality Sector Council and industry leader across the country to understand the pressure face pub , and to co - create solution for the long - term stability and local economic growth that be vital for our community and our country . responsible Business Conduct Review whether his Department hold discussion with expert from the global south as part of its review of the UK ' s approach to responsible business conduct . it be good to be before you in a new role , Mr Speaker . in fact , even though I might not look it , we have an entirely fresh ministerial team before the House today . with your forbearance , may I offer the House ' s congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) on become parliamentarian of the year at the Spectator award yesterday . I reap the benefit of she as a parliamentary private Secretary , and I be very grateful for it . this Government be commit to harness the insight of a range of stakeholder in deliver the review into responsible business conduct , announce in the trade strategy . that include producer country and expert from the global south . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Fairtrade , my hon . friend will be pleased to know that my official have already hold discussion with Fairtrade tea expert from India and Kenya . the Minister for Trade be also engage with business , civil society and trade union . I recently meet a campaigner from south - east Asia who be involve in freedom of association and independent trade union repression in the garment sector . with that in mind , and give that trade and business be facilitate through relationship , from national government to business to worker and their trade union representative , do the Secretary of State agree that it be essential to involve stakeholder at every level of the supply chain , include those represent worker and union in the global south , when inform the review of the UK and how we promote responsible business practice ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s work in this area , the conversation that he have and the insight that he share with the House , as recently as today in his contribution . the responsible business conduct review will be critical to ensure that business respect human right , labour right , the environment and anti - corruption measure across their operation and supply chain . I reassure he that , in the conversation that I have already have with international counterpart in the few short week that I have be in this job , these issue , include force labour situation and worker ’ right , be raise . british value and the expectation we have as a country be raise with our international partner in trade talk . investment in business what step he be take to encourage investment in business . what step he be take to encourage investment in business . what step he be take to encourage investment in business . we be deliver bold action to drive investment and growth nationwide . our modern industrial strategy be cut red tape , save business nearly £ 6 billion a year , and unlock quick , simple way to do business . we be invest £ 6 . 6 billion through the British Business Bank to help innovative firm scale , and we be rebuild our infrastructure with a 10 - year strategy , back by at least £ 725 billion - worth of Government capital , provide the certainty need to boost productivity , secure growth and job , and deliver sustainable growth right around the United Kingdom . a report by the Rural Coalition highlight that with the right policy framework , the rural economy could increase productivity , lead to an additional £ 19 billion a year . will the Secretary of State outline what step the Department be take to help to support business in rural area , such as my constituency , to unlock that growth potential ? I be grateful to my hon . friend not just for his contribution , but for his advocacy for the rural economy . this Government be commit to support business , include those in rural area such as South West Norfolk , to thrive and grow . we know that rural area offer significant growth potential , contribute £ 259 billion to England ' s gross value add in 2023 . my Department provide support through the help to grow : management business support service and the New Anglia Growth Hub . our plan for small business will hardwire small business voice into Government to boost growth . on top of that and underpin all of it be the modern industrial strategy , which provide stability into the long term — stability for which the business community right across the United Kingdom have be cry out for too long . in Warrington , Platform be transform the former Unilever site where Surf and Persil be once produce into a next - generation modular datum centre that will provide the capacity , resilience and connectivity need to power the UK ' s AI revolution . from Persil to pixel , Platform be take a brownfield industrial site with more than a century of manufacture heritage and bring it into the 21st - century economy . will the Secretary of State set out what more the Department can do to support home - grow , local company such as Platform to deliver project of this kind , which combine cut - edge AI infrastructure , datum sovereignty , regional growth and high - value skill for the future workforce ? Warrington have be at the centre of previous industrial revolution , and we be determined that it will be at the forefront of the industrial revolution that be unfold , with a wave of digital technology and AI flow across the world . we will use all the agency of this government to ensure that all part of the United Kingdom benefit equally from that . my hon . friend will know that work such as that by Platform on the transformation of the Unilever site in Warrington be exactly the kind of bold , future - face investment that we want to enable . that be why we deliver the AI opportunity action plan so swiftly . we will create AI growth zone across the United Kingdom to create the infrastructure in which new business and business that be transform place and community such as Warrington will be at the forefront and able to grasp the very good of the global economy in the region and nation of every part of the United Kingdom . one of the great thing about Edinburgh South West be that it have a flourish renewable sector , which I think be reach critical mass . a few week ago , I attend a fantastic roundtable that demonstrate the industry ' s desire to work with the UK Government to make their industrial strategy a complete success . will the Secretary of State commit to meeting organisation in Edinburgh South West to discuss how we can ensure that our industrial strategy bring as many job as possible to Scotland ' s capital ? again , my hon . friend be a great advocate for the community that he represent in Parliament . I be very excited to meet the business that he reference . we hit a milestone in the second quarter of this year , because the UK start to produce more than 50 % of its energy use renewable . his community as well as other community around the UK will benefit from the transition to renewable . this be an exciting time to do business , and this be an exciting sector of our economy ; it be one of the fast grow sector in the global economy , and right here in the UK we be benefit the most from it . a major lodge development at Irvine House near Canonbie , and the potential for a Center Parcs in the border , show that there be still great potential for job in the tourism industry my constituency . will the Secretary of State encourage the Chancellor to follow the advice of the Scottish Hospitality Group and give hospitality a fair deal in the Budget , rather than clobber it as she do last time ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that every sector of our economy be at the forefront of the Chancellor ' s mind as she stabilise and recover our economy from the 14 year of chaos and confusion work by the Conservative party . I also assure he that there will be no repeat of the mini - Budget that the Conservatives inflict on our economy , the consequence of which we be still suffer today , which the right hon . Gentleman vote for and support . we inherit a growth emergency because of the decision take by the Conservative party in government . we will recover from it ; we will build back well ; and we will make sure that every sector , include hospitality , benefit from the great economy we be move towards . one change that would encourage significant investment be UK participation in the EU ' s internal electricity market . energy trading with our close neighbour be currently hugely inefficient , which only add to the burden of energy cost that our business face . will the Government put real pressure behind the negotiation that be ongoing with the EU to reinstate our internal energy trading with the EU ? as the hon . Lady know , we have put a lot of effort into the reset with the EU . we have build new opportunity for british people and british business , and we will continue to do so . every Labour Government in history have end their time in office with unemployment high than when they start , and this Government have make a record - break start . business large and small in West Suffolk be put off investment decision , freeze recruitment and lay off staff because of the burden already impose on they by this government — business property relief , the family farm tax , national insurance contribution , and the employment right legislation . after the last Budget , the Chancellor tell the Confederation of British Industry that she be not go to " come back for more " , so will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to end the uncertainty and tell business very clearly that there be go to be no more tax rise on business in the Budget ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman that the industrial strategy give clarity on policy for 10 year into the future , which have be welcome by business large and small . I also reassure he and the business in his community that there will be no repeat of the mini - Budget that the Conservatives inflict on our country , for which we be still pay the price . finally , I reassure he that we have a Chancellor who put first and foremost the primary mission of this Government , which be economic growth — the kind of growth that be deliver record investment in our economy , from which every business , large and small , be benefit equally right around the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the all - new ministerial team to their position . they have inherit a crisis , because business confidence have plunge to a record low since the Chancellor ' s Halloween budget a year ago today . will the Business Secretary assure this House that he will find and demonstrate his backbone , stand up to the Chancellor , and encourage business investment by follow conservative plan to reduce welfare spending so that we can scrap the family business tax and cut small business rate ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for welcome I to the Dispatch Box . we be very aware that we inherit a crisis — a crisis create by the Conservative party , include the state in which they leave our global relation , the lack of growth in the economy and the effect of the mini - Budget . the reputation of our country be in tatter as a result and our public service be on their knee , but all of those thing be be turn around because of the decision take by this Chancellor . the Conservatives should be celebrate the fact that we have the fast grow economy in the G7 for the first six month of this year , because these be the kind of action that show we be get growth and stability back into our economy , and give business the predictability upon which to build future success and prosperity and the creation of job . the Conservatives should be celebrate that , not talk our country down . Industrial Strategy what recent progress he have make on implement the industrial strategy . what recent progress he have make on implement the industrial strategy . what recent progress he have make on implement the industrial strategy . the whole of Government be focus on deliver the industrial strategy , and significant progress have already be make . this month , we publish our new quarterly update , which report on the key economic indicator for growth - drive sector , delivery milestone and major investment . with over £ 250 billion of investment commit and over 45 , 000 job support since July , we be deliver on that vision . Mid and South Pembrokeshire play a vital role in the UK ' s energy sector , supply 20 % of the UK ' s energy . this Government have recognise that the future of Britain ' s energy security depend on Pembrokeshire , identify we as a key growth region and invest in our workforce with an £ 800 , 000 skill pilot . will the Minister set out how the industrial strategy will help empower community from Pembroke Dock to Milford Haven to continue to lead the way in our energy security and help generate local economic growth ? my hon . friend have be a constant advocate for the energy potential of Pembrokeshire . that be why the industrial strategy support south - west Wales ' s clean energy potential through target investment in infrastructure and workforce development . the strategy will build on that use the potential of the port of Milford Haven , float offshore wind in the Celtic sea and carbon capture technology . the £ 800 , 000 skill pilot that he refer to underpin that clean energy industry sector plan . the National Wealth Fund will also benefit Wales , as it will invest in the sector he mention that be prevalent in that area . Cornwall have a huge role to play in make Britain a clean energy superpower . as Ministers will be aware , much thought have already go into the making of an industrial strategy for Cornwall . the crucial piece now be to unlock the funding need for industrial and economic development , particularly in the wake of the share prosperity fund come to an end . what discussion have the Minister have with colleague in the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government about the prospect of a set of investment measure to replace share prosperity funding and ensure the realisation of Cornwall ' s unique industrial potential ? I know from holiday in my hon . friend ' s constituency that it be a place of incredible beauty , but I know from his constant advocacy that it be also a place of huge industrial potential . Cornwall will benefit from access to the £ 200 million investment fund , which provide debt and equity finance of up to £ 5 million for business in the south - west . that have already deliver £ 51 . 8 million of direct investment , leverage an additional £ 48 . 1 million . I know he have big plan for industry in Cornwall , and we will work with he , especially on access to finance , to ensure that we can unlock that potential . we will of course work with our colleague in MHCLG . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for british bus . our bus manufacturing industry support thousand of job across the country , but face an existential challenge from China . market share have increase rapidly , and the Scottish National party ' s disastrous ScotZEB 2 scheme send less than 20 % of order to Scotland ' s sole manufacturer , which directly jeopardise 400 job early this year . what urgent intervention be minister consider to contend with the rise in chinese market share ? have the Minister discuss this issue with colleague in the Department for Transport prior to the publication of the 10 - year bus pipeline next month ? record bus funding should not be a shopping list for China . I share my hon . friend ' s frustration at the lack of an industrial strategy from the SNP Government in Edinburgh . it have mean that worker at Alexander Dennis in his constituency be on furlough rather than do what they do well : make world - class bus for public transport . for our part , we be support combine mayoral authority to co - ordinate the procurement of bus through a Crown Commercial Service commercial agreement , and we be publish a 10 - year pipeline of future bus order to provide the much - need certainty that the sector require . that include provide advice on use social value criterion that supplier such as Alexander Dennis be well place to meet when procure new bus , such as create and retain job in a way that respect our legal obligation . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for keep this issue on the agenda . it be no use the Secretary State look at I with a grin as though I be out of order . we be still only on the second question and I have to get some other member in — that be all I be bother about . it will get bad shortly — I have get Jim to come ! I call Robin Swann . I will not take the dig about be short personally , Mr Speaker . the industrial strategy and the strategic defence review both offer great opportunity to the entire United Kingdom . can I seek reassurance from the Minister that he will work with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that Northern Ireland and Northern Ireland business get benefit out of both ? I can absolutely give the hon . member that reassurance . I have already meet with my opposite number in the Northern Ireland Executive . the hon . member mention defence industry in particular , and it feel like every single month there be a significant defence order as part of the industrial strategy . it show that these be not just word on paper , but that we be deliver within the real economy . I welcome the Minister and , indeed , the whole Front - Bench team to their place — well do ! on the industrial strategy , what step have be take to fund high - quality workforce apprenticeship in sector such as technology , manufacturing and hospitality , to provide young people with opportunity for employment and live in those industry ? will the Minister undertake to discuss these matter with the relevant Minister at the Northern Ireland Assembly ? as I say to the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) a moment ago , we have already meet with the Northern Ireland Executive on these issue . skill be an essential part of the industrial strategy because we see , again and again , industry around the country that be desperate to grow , and have the order , but be unable to create the high - pay job that we need . that be an absolute priority for we as we implement the industrial strategy . I call the shadow Minister . labour ' s industrial strategy recognise that housing and infrastructure be vital to drive regional investment . but as I hope the Minister will know , across the road , the Treasury have be quietly consult on change to the landfill tax , end the decade - long exemption for quarry . that change would add million of pound on to infra - structure project and increase tax cost for construction business across the country . how would such a move help grow our economy and build the home and infra - structure that we need ? we be fast approach the time of year when I have to tell my child that they will have to wait until Christmas to find out what their present be . the hon . Gentleman know that he have to wait until the Budget to find out what be in the Budget . he mention plan . we have make huge change to planning rule , which have result in a saving of about £ 272 million in red - tape cost for business , so we be ensure that that sector , in particular , have the environment it need to contribute to growth . I be afraid that be not good enough . the industry be face deep uncertainty around the kite fly go on across the road at the Treasury . I realise that he be not responsible for that , but he need a well answer for the construction industry . the Construction Products Association have just cut its growth forecast for the sector to barely 1 % next year , warn that the uncertainty over new taxis be choke investment . I will ask the Minister again : how on earth will add £ 28 , 000 to the cost of a new home , or 25 % to road construction cost , through a new builder tax do anything other than cement the slowdown that Labour be oversee in our economy ? to stand up and raise uncertainty , and then complain about it , be quite something . the shadow Minister say that we be slow growth ; we be the fast - grow economy in the G7 in the first half of 2025 . we be now the fourth - large exporter in the world , and we have have five interest - rate cut in a row — do you even know what the question be ? order . Mr Timothy , you use to be an adviser who specialise in not answer question ; we do not need any help ! [ laughter . ] more ! thank you , Mr Speaker . I be glad that those on the Opposition Benches recognise excellence when they see it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also welcome the ministerial Front Benchers to their new role . the Liberal Democrats have long champion an industrial strategy . in government , we create the Green Investment Bank , the British Business Bank and the regional growth fund , and we oppose the Conservative Government ' s damaging decision to scrap the industrial plan . we welcome the industrial strategy ' s return , especially its focus on invest in skill . however , business know that the apprenticeship levy do not work : funding be hard to access and million go unspent . we welcome the pledge in June to replace it with a more flexible growth and skill levy , but firm and young people be still await detail . will the Minister provide detail of what training this will fund , so that business and young people can plan ahead with certainty ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word on my new appointment . I will not get ahead of announcement on that , but give the importance of skill to the industrial strategy , we be not wait for those announcement . we have have TechFirst , a £ 187 million investment in secondary school pupil , undergraduate , phd student , entrepreneur and business , to help they get ahead on that . we have the engineering package of over £ 100 million , and the defence package of £ 182 million . we be make those investment now to ensure that the pipeline be there for those industry , which be the priority within the industrial strategy . small and medium - sized business what step he be take to help support business growth through his Department ' s plan for small and medium - sized business . what step he be take to help support business growth through his Department ' s plan for small and medium - sized business . the Government have launch our small business plan , which my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , do so much great work on . " back your business " outline how we will make thriving small and medium - sized business a reality across the UK . we be unlock billion of pound in finance to support business , include through the most significant reform to tackle late payment in 25 year . we will support business far by revitalise high street and deliver growth - boost support for digital adoption through a new online business growth service . for British Beauty Week last week , I visit the award - win Doncaster salon Beauty Lounge in Armthorpe . the british beauty industry be a massive success story for business . what will the Minister do in his new role to support the industry and salon across the country ? as ever , my hon . friend be a great advocate for all thing Doncaster . the beauty sector be a vital driver of innovation , sustainability and wellbee across the economy , but also locally , through business like the Beauty Lounge . that be why we be back small business through the small business plan , as I just set out , but we be also reform business rate and have increase the employment allowance , enable employer to hire up to four full - time worker without pay national insurance contribution . I be always tell on social medium that I be in need of a glow - up — perhaps the next time I be in Doncaster , the Beauty Lounge can help I out . Leigh and Atherton have many exceptional sme that be drive local growth , particularly in manufacturing , engineering and construction . what step be the Minister take to make sure that sme in area like mine receive target support as part of effort to address regional imbalance and reduce reliance on our major metropolitan centre ? I know my hon . friend be a great believer in Leigh and Atherton ' s untapped potential , and so be we . we have launch the small business strategy , with action on late payment , action to unlock access to finance , and well , simple support through the business growth hub . in addition to that , Leigh will receive £ 20 million through the pride in place programme . I know my hon . friend fight hard for that on her community ' s behalf . my constituency have nearly 5 , 000 sme , all of which be face increase business rate and taxis , threaten job and growth . will the Minister signal his support for sme by follow the conservative party ' s lead and completely abolish business rate for pub and restaurant on the high street ? I gently say to the hon . member that he do not do that in 14 year in government . indeed , the Conservatives be set to remove the relief on small business . rather than repeat the mistake of the Liz Truss Budget with unfunded tax commitment , we be give real support to business now , include by increase the employment allowance so that more and more of the small business that he describe do not pay national insurance contribution at all . I recently meet with Discover Adventure , a small business in Coombe Bissett which be genuinely struggle to engage with Government over the recent package travel regulation . it sit ambiguously between DBT , the Department for Transport and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport ; indeed , a question be throw back today , have be table in the Table Office . may I sincerely ask the Minister to help I locate the correct Minister to deal with the Association of Independent Tour Operators ? this be a vital small business sector in this country , and it need someone to engage with in Government over these regulation . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his constructive question ; I be very happy to pursue that within Government . the wide point be that both the small business strategy and the industrial strategy be important because they be cross - government strategy , as lot of sector and individual business be face challenge that be not just the responsibility of one Minister . I will certainly follow up on that . I call the shadow Minister . I associate myself with the remark about British Beauty Week . in addition to beauty business , one of the key ingredient for growth on our high street be have a post office in the mix . as Post Office Minister , he have inherit a network of 11 , 500 post office across the country and a consultation on the size of that network . can he echo what his predecessor say at the Dispatch Box , and commit to support our high street by maintain the scale of the post office network throughout this Parliament ? I thank the shadow Minister for her welcome . she be absolutely right about the anchoring effect of post office on high street all over the country . we know not just that , as we mention in the Green Paper , if people go to their post office they be likely to spend money in local shop , but that post office be essential — as I find out during a visit to one the day before yesterday — in give small business somewhere to take their taking . the Green Paper set out the option for maintenance of the post office network , and it be certainly our intention to maintain it . Motability Operations whether he have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on increase the use of British - build car by Motability Operations . I regularly engage with my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary , as my hon . friend would expect . we share the importance of increase the uptake of the excellent car build across the United Kingdom . the Motability scheme support those in receipt of a qualifying mobility allowance , and the Government will continue to work with Motability to ensure that the scheme meet the transport need of disabled people . one in five new car be now purchase through the Motability Scheme . this present an unprecedented opportunity for the british car industry , as the scheme stipulate what car its user can buy . have the Secretary of State consider that we could hugely increase the sale of british car by stipulate that only British - build car can be buy — and this be public money — by motability user , which would not just safeguard thousand of british job , but create a world - lead industry in accessible vehicle ? that be a very thoughtful contribution , and I be very grateful for it . the Motability Foundation be an independent charity and be regulate by the Charity Commission , but it do engage fully with the Government in the most respectful way . as my hon . friend would imagine , I have instruct my official to work with those in the Department for Work and Pensions to see how we can make recommendation and certainly to support the take - up of british car as much as possible . this Government be of course commit to the growth of the automotive sector . we be provide support through programme such as drive35 , the electric car grant , which will invest up to £ 2 . 5 billion of support into zero emission manufacturing across the UK . Fair Pay Agreements what assessment he have make of the potential merit of implement fair pay agreement in a range of business sector . I thank my hon . friend for his long - stand advocacy in this area . we want to work constructively with union , employer and stakeholder to build on the Employment Rights Bill . our first priority for a fair pay agreement be adult social care , a large and complex sector with over 19 , 000 provider and 1 . 5 million dedicated worker . as such , our priority be ensure that this process work effectively , which be why I be delighted that the Government have announce a £ 500 million investment in the first ever fair pay agreement in the social care sector . we will use what we learn to consider where fair pay agreement can offer similar benefit across other sector . I thank the Minister for her response , but with the cost of living pressure continue , it be clear that deliver increase real income and well living standard be our no . 1 priority . can the Minister say a little more about which further sector be most ready for fair pay agreement , and what step the Department be take to meet the UK ' s obligation , as a member of the International Labour Organisation , to extend sectoral collective bargaining as a means to raise pay and improve living standard ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support for sectoral collective bargaining and collective agreement as a key steer for improve living standard across workplace in the country . as he know , we be demonstrate our commitment to sectoral collective bargaining with the social care and school support staff sector . the UK be commit to work internationally to strengthen worker ’ right and enhance labour standard globally . we fully support the work of the International Labour Organisation and will continue to meet our obligation under the ILO . trading Relationships what step his Department be take to improve the UK ' s trading relationship with other country . this government waste no time when it come to trade deal — not just talk about they , but deliver they . we have already secure trade deal with the big economy in the world , one of the fast - grow economy in the world , and our big trading market . the Government ' s clear principle be to deliver for british business and the british people . that be why in the first month of my new role I travel to three continent to far strengthen UK trade and investment . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place and invite he to Benbecula Distillery in my place . it be a dramatic lighthouse distillery , and a great addition to the landscape . it recently secure £ 1 . 5 million from the British Business Bank ' s investment fund . Benbecula ' s distillery be one of a chain of small distillery across the Western Isles and other island . I have a wee dram in Raasay , where that distillery have revive the island as much as its product revive I . what be the Secretary of State do to make sure that this new wave of small scottish distillery will be part of the next round of trade deal ? I be extremely grateful for the invitation . I can reassure my hon . friend that when we have the opportunity to take delegation abroad , the Scotch Whisky Association and representative of those distillery be always with we . we fight hard for the Scotch whisky business . we know how important it be right across the United Kingdom and to the UK ' s economy overall . the week before last I be in India with the Prime Minister where we be further the trade deal we have secure and make sure that we exploit all the opportunity that these trade deal present . it be important to not only secure trade deal but make sure that we exploit all the opportunity right across the economy . that deal alone will unleash over £ 1 billion - worth of opportunity for the Scotch whisky industry , and that be something we should all celebrate . in take step to improve our trading relationship with other country , I welcome the new sanction announce by the UK and the US target Russia ' s two large oil company : Rosneft and Lukoil . however , despite point out to Ministers on several occasion that hundred of billion of pound have be generate for Russia as a result of oil and gas be ship under british company with british insurance , no action have be take to stop this . give that every vessel transport russian liquefy natural gas be finance the destruction of ukrainian village , town and city and the death of ukrainian soldier and civilian , when will this Government act to end the complicity of UK company in this ? the hon . Member will know that the Prime Minister and this Government stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine , and we have since the moment we come into office . we be highly aware of the risk that Russia pose , not just to Ukraine but to the continent of Europe . we be also aware of the constant attack this country undergo from cyber - security threat via Russia and Russia - sponsor activity . I can assure the hon . member , from conversation I constantly have across Government and the forum across Government I be part of , that we be very aware of this threat and act constantly against it . farming sector : US Trading Relationship what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on the potential impact of the trading relationship with the US on the farming sector . I be grateful to the right hon . member for his question . the UK be the first country to secure such an agreement with the US — one which will save thousand of job , protect key british industry and farmer , and drive economic growth . People say that it would be impossible to deliver such a deal without compromise on food standard , but we have prove they wrong . this Government have deliver a deal that protect our high food standard while give british farmer access to a market of 340 million people where they can sell their high - quality beef . the Secretary of State be right that any threat of an imminent increase in US beef import in particular be clearly not the problem , but it have not go away either . the US Department of Agriculture have a foreign agricultural service with 100 different office , embassy and trade mission . they work with US farming group around the world to promote their product , and they be not spend that money just to stand still . what will the Secretary of State be do to ensure that our farmer have the same opportunity , so that they can see free trade agreement not just as threat but opportunity too ? I be grateful for the right hon . member ' s insightful and thoughtful contribution . as I say , strike trade deal be vital . that be why we put so much energy into it and have have so much success , and there will be more to come . it be very important that the whole british economy and Government make sure that we exploit the full opportunity that all these agreement offer . the Department for Business and Trade have embed highly talented trade expert right across the world , and they be try to do just that on the frontline of all the economic opportunity we perceive around the world , and that include agriculture . if there be specific area where the right hon . member perceive that the agricultural sector , either in his patch or across the United Kingdom , have an opportunity that be not yet be exploit , I want to hear from and work with he to make sure that british farmer benefit . Jaguar Land Rover : cyber - attack what step his Department be take to support business in the Jaguar Land Rover supply chain affect by the recent cyber - attack . all Jaguar Land Rover ' s UK factory have restart and the company be offer a financing scheme to qualify supplier . UK Export Finance have also provide a partial guarantee for a £ 1 . 5 billion loan from commercial lender to help JLR manage its business and pay its supplier . I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s continued advocacy for the Jaguar Land Rover supply chain , in particular small business in the Burnley constituency . I understand that small business be now receive support through the scheme , although more work need to be do . I thank the Minister for that answer , for his work thus far , and for his extensive correspondence with I and the industry during this crisis . local supplier , such as the brilliant BCW in Burnley , have tell I that the finance just be not get to supplier and that some of they be go to the wall or cut job . JLR be not do enough to avoid widespread supply chain job loss . this be affect the entire british car industry through contagion effect , and supplier be tell I that they be not out of the wood yet . what more can he do to get more support for our supplier , such as BCW ? BCW in my hon . friend ' s constituency be an extremely important engineering firm not only for Jaguar Land Rover , but for our manufacturing supply chain . the concern he have raise about access to finance for company low down in the supply chain be one that I have raise with both Jaguar Land Rover and bank — I have with a meeting with most of the lender . however , I commend the work of the Confederation of British Metalforming , which work with the supply chain . I understand that it have positive meeting with Jaguar Land Rover recently , although of course there be a cash financing issue as factory come up to speed . I will be pay close attention to that in the come week . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the growth emergency we inherit from the previous Government demand a proportionate response . that mean an unrelenting focus on pro - business policy . it mean harness investment in our high growth sector and tirelessly implement our modern industrial strategy . it mean shake up our entire regulatory system . the Department for Business and Trade be strip out the rule , regulation and red tape that be hold business back . we be help reduce the regulatory burden by 25 % , cut out 200 hour of needless paperwork for company so far . we be simplify rule around company report , save firm £ 230 million . we be bring in a strengthen growth duty for regulator and launch a new performance dashboard , inject agility into our regulatory regime . where regulator be double up , we be streamline they . we be abolish the British Hallmarking Council , transfer function to the Department . this be a new ministerial team act with urgency . we be use every lever we have to grow the economy and to deliver for this Government ' s plan for change . on Tuesday , the Ministry of Defence announce the launch of Project Fairfax , which will see a defence technology cluster establish on surplus MOD land at RAF Wyton in Huntingdon . this be a hugely exciting opportunity for both Huntingdon and the MOD , as we seek to create a defence ecosystem in site we have identify across Huntingdonshire . with a decision yet to be make about identify investible site , and regard the £ 600 million fund available through the strategic site accelerator programme , will the Secretary of State meet I and the chief executive of my local council to discuss the inclusion of potential defence site in Huntingdon ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s question , and I know that his community will be grateful for his question , too . I can assure he that we be work to mobilise the strategic site accelerator , which will operate across the nation . we expect to communicate how and when the programme will deploy in the come period into spring . as he know , RAF Wyton be a key site for cyber and specialist operation command . it be an important asset for our nation . I , or the relevant Minister , will of course meet he to discuss how we can well support that site go forward , but already within Government it be a very highly value asset . Luxfer Gas Cylinders in my constituency employ more than 200 people and be a key supplier to hydrogen allocation round 1 project . it want to expand to become the UK ' s only manufacturer of high pressure hydrogen cylinder for hydrogen tube trailer and hydrogen vehicle fuel system , which be currently import . will the Minister meet I and other mp who have significant hydrogen and fuel cell manufacturer in their constituency to discuss how exist Government support for hydrogen can well drive UK growth and job ? I be pleased to address a meeting of Hydrogen UK just last week , where I reaffirm Government support for the sector , which we have recognise through our industrial strategy and the clean energy industry sector plan . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss in particular Luxfer ' s ambition to invest more in the UK . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the team to their significant role for the United Kingdom . this week , the other place vote for five reasonable amendment to the Employment Rights Bill , represent a meaningful compromise with cross - party support to mitigate some of the bad of the damage cause by the Bill . as the Office for Budget Responsibility now score the impact of that legislation , this be one of the last chance to avoid the cost , taxis and spending cut that will result from it . will the Secretary of State now put country before party , do the right thing by british business and accept those compromise amendment ? I be grateful for the shadow Secretary of State ' s warm word . he shadow I when I first go into my role at the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology ; he be then move here before I , so I have follow he to this role . I watch with trepidation the next reshuffle on his Benches . the shadow Secretary of State mention the worker ’ right Bill , which be still between the two Houses ; I hope we will be reconcile as soon as possible so that it can get Royal Assent and benefit worker and business right across the nation . once the Bill pass , we will , of course , undertake a period of implementation . my predecessor and the previous Deputy Prime Minister , who champion this legislation , be clear from the outset that the Bill will modernise the british workplace so that it be beneficial for business and for the people who work in they . the modern economy have change ; it be different from 20 year ago . the Conservatives have the time to modernise the economy and the relationship within workplace , and they choose not to take that — Order . I don ' t want to do this , but this be topical , and all these member need to get in . we do not get through the list already . you have to help I to help they . I will save time , Mr Speaker , by not mention the 13 lead business organisation that have all call for certainty now — not well - intentione future consultation on implementation , but certainty now , because job and the economy be bleed out . the Secretary of State will know that even the Resolution Foundation — that wonderful finish school for aspire Labour Ministers — say this week that some of the measure in the Bill should not be proceed with . again , the Conservatives have 14 year in which the economy be change . they have the chance to tackle zero - hour contract , and what do they do ? nothing . they have the chance to tackle fire and rehire , and they do nothing . they have the chance to tackle the challenge of be an app - base employee , and they choose to do nothing . we be act to modernise the economy and the relationship out there between business and worker because that be what be need . it be what worker and business need , and it be what this Government be deliver . last Friday , alongside my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , I attend the Get Britain grow : South East conference , which discuss opportunity across advanced manufacturing , life science , digital innovation and beyond . will the Minister set out how the industrial strategy will ensure that Bracknell and the wide south - east reach its full potential ? my hon . friend be a dynamic advocate for a dynamic part of the country in the Thames valley . the industrial strategy and its sector plan highlight the strength in his area , especially in tech and life science . alongside the national package to grow the sector , specific intervention in the south - east include an AI growth zone in Culham , support for the solent freeport , expand the British Business Bank ' s nation and region investment fund and major project back the Oxford to Cambridge growth corridor . we will keep work with my hon . friend to unlock the potential across the south - east . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . business across the country be struggle with unaffordable energy cost . the burden of this Government ' s national insurance contribution rise and uncertainty over the Employment Rights Bill be compound by the immense struggle cause by sky - high energy bill . I urge the Government to act with more urgency in address energy cost for business , include through accelerate the launch of the industrial competitiveness scheme , the consultation for which be not even due to be launch until the end of the year . what discussion have the Minister have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to cut operating cost for business , and will the Government consider Liberal Democrat proposal to break the link between gas and energy price , halve bill within a decade and ease pressure ? I can assure the hon . Lady that we be in constant contact with the Energy Secretary . when I be at DSIT , we co - chair the AI energy council , and we be work together to get the transition to renewable power do as swiftly as possible , generate the wealth that our country need from the transition period . also , we be lower bill and , through some target intervention , ensure that those key business get the support they need on the challenge with energy price and supply that we inherit when we come into office . horwich trailer manufacturer indespension tell I that the post - brexit regulatory system have significantly increase the approval cost for new trailer design because of differ rule between GB , EU and Northern irish market . the business now spend more than £ 100 , 000 a year complete relevant paperwork . what measure be the Secretary of State take to remove the administrative burden on firm so that instead of form fill , they can invest and create the well - pay job that I want to see in my local economy ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s passionate question . as he will know , we have strike a trade deal with the EU and reset the relationship with it . we will continue to build on that to deliver for all part of our economy . the Conservatives bring in a national guarantee of 11 , 500 post office in the network . Labour have promise to scrap that . what assurance can minister give to people in Middleton , Lockington , Leconfield , Cherry Burton , Aldbrough , Walkington , Tickton , Hedon , Wawne , Skirlaugh , Sproatley , Beverley , Roos , Ottringham , Keyingham , Withernsea , Easington and Thorngumbald that their post office will be retain ? order . Mr Stuart , please — we do not read out the phone directory , and try to do so in a topical do not work for you or I . as I say to the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , we be commit to ensure not just that we work to maintain the post office network , but that we deal with some of those long - stand issue about the viability of the business go forward — issue that the Conservatives have 14 year to fix and do not . worker at Tata ' s Trostre site in my constituency have be hard hit by the five - week annual stoppage , leave they short of money over Christmas . despite reassurance from Tata , the Minister will understand that they be worried that this be a sign of bad to come . what be he do to bring down energy price , negotiate preferential treatment for our product to access the EU , and ensure that we strengthen our protection against cheap import — all vital to the future of our steel industry ? we recognise the importance of the steel industry in Wales and of Trostre in particular , which have more than 70 year of tinplate production and be the only tin line in the UK . I meet the chief executive of Tata Steel this week to discuss this very issue . he refer to a softening in market demand , but fundamentally , this Government be commit to create a well business environment for steel in the UK , so that it can compete with Europe , include on energy price . small and medium - sized business in my constituency have tell I about the impact that trump ' s trade war be have on their ability to export to the United States . what be the Secretary of State do to support these vital job creator and ensure that british good can continue to be sell worldwide ? the hon . member raise an important point , particularly for small business , which rely on those scheme . I pay tribute to the Royal Mail for the speed at which it react to those de minimis change to ensure that business be able to continue . we keep work with Royal Mail as well to ensure that that be possible . in rural constituency like South Norfolk , I can think of no well place for employment than our pub . from the Wheel of Fortune in Alpington to the Angel Inn in Loddon , these pub be not just vital hub of our community but driver of economic growth . in fact , Mr Speaker , you be more than welcome to join my Christmas pub team on 13 December . what support be the Government put in place to help those business provide decent employment ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question — I be glad he get in today . I can assure he that we be work closely with pub . we want pub to be at the beat heart of community up and down the country . we know we have inherit a challenging environment for pub . we listen to they and will be act . early , the Secretary of State say that he be committed to grow our car industry , but british car manufacturer face huge fine for sell car that consumer actually want , while the Government use taxpayer ' money to subsidise the purchase of foreign car with chinese battery in they . what be the Government ' s plan to end the nonsensical zero emission vehicle mandate , and to restore a normal market , from which our car industry would benefit ? you would have think , Mr Speaker , that the hon . Gentleman might say a good word about our british automotive sector . the trade deal that we strike with America — the first and the good such trade deal — protect 44 , 000 job from the tariff challenge be feel around the world . we be create new opportunity and investing . as the House see , the Government act at speed to protect Jaguar Land Rover and its entire supply chain in its hour of need . this Government act when we need to and create opportunity wherever we can , and we will continue to do so . to make steel in this country , we need ceramic . to build house in this country , we need ceramic . five of the eight industrial strategy growth sector require ceramic . ahead of the launch of the british industrial competitiveness scheme , might there be any interim relief from energy price for energy - intensive industry ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for ceramic . this be only my second time at the Dispatch Box , but it be also the second time that he have ask I about this . he and I have already meet to discuss it , and I be happy to have further conversation with he and industry about everything we can do , as soon as possible , to support the sector with its energy cost . I launch my " Pub of the Year " award at the Goods Yard in Broadstone last week . fifty - four pub and two brewery in Mid Dorset and North Poole support 1 , 600 job and underpin the vibrancy of our town and village , but two third of they have have to cut job or hour since the damaging job tax . hospitality venue typically operate seven day a week , and sometimes more than 12 hour a day , so they need many part - time worker . will the Government consult on a new low rate of employer national insurance for worker earn £ 5 , 000 to £ 9 , 100 , to support the employment of part - time worker and drive growth ? I come from a small business family in the hospitality sector , so I completely understand how important the sector be for local economy and job — especially pub , which be the backbone of our high street and important for pride in our local economy and community . we be help pub through our £ 1 . 5 million hospitality support scheme , and through brilliant initiative such as Pub be the Hub , for which £ 440 , 000 be recently announce . More will be announce soon . as of tomorrow , the Lending Standards Board will be no more , because its funder — the bank — have pull out . will Minister meet I urgently to take forward the good work that the board be do , particularly on the ethnicity code ? that work expose the fact that only 19 % of minority business achieve loan , whereas 58 % of standard application do . business lead by entrepreneur from ethnic minority background make a huge contribution to all our constituency . indeed , I meet two such remarkable business people in Acton a couple of day ago . my hon . friend be right to mention that finance be a barrier for under - represent group , include ethnic minority . deal with that be a key part of the small business strategy , and it be why we have put billion more into the British Business Bank . she have lead on these issue , and I be of course happy to meet she to discuss the future of the programme that she mention . to show his deregulatory zeal , the Business Secretary just boast about scrap the British Hallmarking Council , which have one part - time employee . give that every £ 1 of regulatory cost have the same impact on investment as £ 1 take in tax , why be the Government proceed with their unemployment Bill and propose a £ 5 billion a year tax on british business ? it be quite extraordinary ; after just a couple of week in the job , I have announce £ 230 million of deregulation every year — £ 1 billion - worth between now and the next general election — and what do the Conservatives do ? they say that we be not go far enough . they have 14 year ; I have have a couple of week ! it be about time they start come up with well question , and stop criticise a Government who act where they fail to . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . spin out of the industrial strategy be the eagerly await critical mineral strategy , the launch of which will happen in due course — or dreckly , as we say in Cornwall . it be of particular interest to my constituency . Canada , the US and Australia have already establish new mineral exploration fund . such fund support junior exploration company in build up energy security and contribute to export - lead growth . be the Department consider such a fund as part of the critical mineral strategy ? I thank my hon . friend for his continued advocacy for the cornish critical mineral industry — in fact , I thank all our fantastic cornish mps . he know that the critical mineral strategy be eagerly anticipate in Cornwall and across the UK . the mineral in Cornwall be crucial to the future of our critical mineral industry and the security of the UK . we have the large lithium deposit in Europe ; we need to take advantage of that . we will look at all option to ensure that we get the financing to exploit those mineral . many small business rely on Facebook advertising to reach customer , but too many find that if they get hack , it take too long for Meta to let they back into their account . that have be the case for Andy Campbell , who run ATR Carpet Cleaning . will the Minister advise on how we can get the like of Meta to reconnect these people with their account , because Meta be not do that for we ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . one of my constituent be in a similar case , and it be devastating . for a large business , fraud and economic crime be an inconvenience ; for a small business , it can be existential . that be one of the reason why , this week , we be communicate with small business to ensure that they up their cyber - security . I be happy to meet the hon . gentleman on this issue . what step be the Department take to improve access to finance for UK start - up seek to scale up , give that only 1 % of UK start - ups raise equity of more than £ 100 million ? by comparison , in the US , 6 % of start - up do so . furthermore , how can we ensure that woman get a fair share of access to finance ? my hon . friend ask exactly the right question , which I be extremely grateful for , because they be central to the programme of economic reform that this Government be undertake . she will know from the Mansion House reform that we be unlock capital into our economy via the pension reform be undertake . we be make sure , right from the start , that woman have a voice . I do the same in my role in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , and in this role , I will continue to ensure that woman be champion right across the economy , that we get capital where it need to be , and that we accept that we have brilliant business that need target intervention , which we will provide to make sure that scale - up happen . Power Roll in my constituency have pioneer a world - beat , flexible , lightweight solar panel module . the next four week be a critical period for the company ; a £ 5 million investment be need to keep production and job in the north - east . will my hon . and right hon . friend on the Front Bench work with I to help secure this great british innovation ' s future in east Durham ? I be familiar with Power Roll . I have meet the chief executive , and my hon . friend have advocate extremely well for the company . I have also meet potential investor in the business . I be happy to discuss that far with he after question today . in recent year , import brick have make up nearly 20 % of the UK brick market , yet I know that organisation such as Ibstock Brick in North West Leicestershire can supply the brick for the home that we need . how do we make sure that UK brick manufacturer can maximise investment , employ local people and deliver the brick that we need for the future ? I be determined that this Government ' s grand ambition for building will ensure that we supply more UK brick , have few import , and increase the productivity of our brick kiln around the country , include at Ibstock . the key be get energy price down , and that be what we be work on for our industrial strategy . Sudan : protection of Civilians ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if she will make a statement on the UK ' s activity to promote the protection of civilian , follow a report massacre at El Fasher ' s saudi maternity hospital . with your permission , Mr Speaker , before answer my right hon . friend ' s question , I will say a few word about Hurricane Melissa , which be currently a category 1 or 2 hurricane . it be pass through the Bahamas ' outer island and be impact our british overseas territory , the Turks and Caicos Islands . I have be in touch with the Governor and Premier in the last day . we have deploy response team to the region and mobilise £ 2 . 5 million in emergency humanitarian aid to help Jamaica rebuild in the wake of this disaster , the full scale of which be only now become clear . I be sure that the House will concur with the word of his Majesty the King and all those who have send their support and solidarity to all those affect , and will be think of those who have lose their life , not just in Jamaica , but in Haiti and other country across the region . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to ask this question . she will know of my keen interest in this issue over many year , include during the time in my career when I be work with Oxfam in her constituency on these issue , and with our late close friend , Jo Cox , on past atrocity and appalling situation in the conflict in Sudan . the report of mass atrocity against civilian , and of the forced displacement cause by the Rapid Support Forces advance in El Fasher , be horrify and deeply alarming . the scale of suffering be unconscionable . what be happen be often base on people ' s ethnicity . woman and girl face widespread sexual and gender - base violence , and there be evidence mount of defenceless civilian be execute and torture , with aid worker also be target as they try to reach the most vulnerable community face famine . as the United Nations Security Council penholder , we have call an emergency council session later today to maintain the spotlight on this situation , and to build pressure on the RSF to de - escalate , in line with UN Security Council resolution 2736 . yesterday , the Foreign Secretary issue a statement condemn the killing of aid worker , include the execution report in the saudi maternity hospital , which be one of the last function facility in El Fasher . that follow her statement on 27 October , which call on the RSF to protect civilian and urgently facilitate safe , rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access . as the third - large donor , we be mobilise £ 23 million of the £ 120 million announce in April to support the emergency humanitarian response in North Darfur . that will support those face sexual violence , and go towards the delivery of lifesave food and health assistance by partner such as the International Committee of the Red Cross , the Sudan Humanitarian Fund and the Cash Consortium of Sudan . as the Foreign Secretary say , the RSF leadership be responsible for the action of their force . all party to the conflict must urgently act to protect civilian and facilitate safe , rapid and unimpeded humanitarian access . I can confirm that our special representative have be in contact with the RSF and Tasis to press for restraint and respect for international humanitarian law , and they be press for a call with Hemedti now . Mr Speaker , I be very grateful to you for grant this urgent question . the scale of suffering in Sudan ' s war on civilian be almost impossible to comprehend . a population the size of Australia ' s be live in acute hunger . a population the size of London ' s have be force to flee their home . there be consistent report of conflict - relate sexual violence , and consistent warning that if the international community do not act , we will effectively see a slow - motion Srebrenica . the Minister set out the report of what may have happen at El Fasher ' s maternity hospital yesterday evening ; 460 people could have be slaughter in a maternity hospital — patient , their companion and medical staff . this surely must be a turning point in the war , and for the international community ' s focus on it . the Minister talk about the special representative ' s contact , but what specific conversation have the Foreign Secretary and Ministers have with their counterpart , particularly in the Quad country — the United States say it want to take a leadership position on these issue — but also in Saudi Arabia , Egypt and the United Arab Emirates on the issue of civilian protection ? secondly , I be pleased to hear that an emergency session of the Security Council have be call . what will the UK Government press other country in the UN to commit to at that session ? thirdly , be the Government confident that the arm control export regime have be robust in this case , give recent report ? what be the Government ' s assessment of claim that El Fasher appear to be at the start of a systematic and intentional process of ethnic cleansing of Fur , Zaghawa and Berti indigenous community , through force displacement and summary execution ? finally , what be the Government do to prevent what be happen in El Fasher from also happen in Tawila , to which so many thousand of terrify civilian have flee ? I share my right hon . friend ' s outrage and horror at the report we be receive . we have make repeat call for restraint on all side in this conflict . we have show leadership as the UN penholder , as one of the large donor , through our work with partner , include those in the Quad , and through the work of our special representative . I know that she reflect the concern of many sudanese live in the United Kingdom , include in my constituency , about what be happen . my right hon . Friend ask some specific question . we be in regular contact with our partner in the Quad and engage with all the country regularly at both ministerial and official level . senior official , include the special representative , be speak on an ongoing basis and ask all party to show restraint and to refrain from activity that prolong the conflict . my right hon . Friend ask about the situation in Tawila . we want to ensure that people be support , particularly those who have flee . as I say , we have mobilise £ 23 million to support the emergency humanitarian response . I be happy to come back to she with further detail . my right hon . Friend ask about the position that we will take at the Security Council . it will be very much in line with the position we have take throughout , which be to call for an immediate end to the violence and to ensure that international humanitarian law be respect and uphold , that sexual violence be bring to an end and that we protect civilian in line with international law . it be crucial that we continue to support accountability effort for such atrocity , particularly as evidence emerge . we support the Centre for Information Resilience and non - governmental organisation look to collect evidence of atrocity . we will not rest until all evidence have be collate and action be take to hold people accountable . we recently support , for the third year run , lobby effort to secure the mandate renewal of the UN fact - find mission at the UN Human Rights Council on 6 October . that be the only UN mechanism investigate human right violation and abuse in Sudan . as hon . member will be aware , it have not be allow access by either side in the conflict , so it be incredibly difficult to establish what be happen , but we be look carefully at all the evidence . my right hon . Friend ask about the importance of our export control regime . I confirm that we continue to emphasise to all party the importance of refrain from action that prolong the conflict . indeed , we want to see people come to the negotiating table to seek a political resolution . we take seriously any allegation that any equipment may have be transfer to Sudan in breach of any of our arm embargo or condition . I assure she that I be in contact with our official on these matter . we must absolutely ensure that nothing be get in that could facilitate these horrific scene . we share my right hon . friend ' s horror and will continue to play a lead role , include at the United Nations Security Council later today . I call the shadow Minister . if I may , I will start by thank the Minister for his update on Hurricane Melissa . on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition , I add my thought and solidarity for all those affect at this time . I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question and to the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for raise the matter , because the report of a massacre at the saudi maternity hospital in El Fasher be appal . the deliberate targeting of civilian , include woman and newborn , be a disgrace . these late atrocity underline the urgent need for renew international resolve to protect civilian and ensure accountability for those responsible . the Conservatives have consistently call for strong , co - ordinate international action in Sudan . as the UN Security Council penholder , the UK have both the platform and the responsibility to lead . will the Minister tell the House what concrete step the Government will take next ? will there be far target sanction ? what diplomatic action be be take to deter the entity whose support continue to sustain the conflict ? the Government host the international humanitarian conference on Sudan early this year . what have materialise from that ? have new funding be disburse ? what progress have be make since those pledge be announce ? the collection and preservation of evidence be vital if perpetrator of these terrible crime be to face justice . will the Minister tell we the late development in the UK ' s support for accountability mechanism ? will the government now redouble those effort ? on humanitarian assistance , million remain displace , with aid route under constant threat . will the Minister update the House on whether british aid be reach those most in need ? what assessment have be make of its efficacy ? Sudan matter to its people , to regional stability and to our shared humanity . the UK must not shrink from its responsibility to protect civilian , to pursue peace and to support the path to a democratic future . I associate myself with the shadow Minister ' s comment , and with her horror and concern about this situation , which I think be share across the House . the right hon . Member ask about our work at the United Nations . as I say to my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East , we will be use the session today to call for all party to adhere to their obligation under international law , and to say that the perpetrator of crime must be hold accountable . we need to see an end to this violence , and the late report be simply shocking and horrific . the right hon . Member ask about diplomatic action . as I have say , we be in close contact with member of the Quad , and all other , give our role as the penholder at the Security Council , and I be happy to update she on that in due course . she ask about sanction . she will know that we do not comment on future designation , but I assure she that we keep these matter under close review . the right hon . Member ask about the humanitarian response , and our assistance be aim at support 650 , 000 people . we be the third large donor , and more than 2 . 5 million people in Sudan have benefit from UK aid since the outbreak of the conflict in 2023 , due to action take by her government and by our since the election . we continue to use every forum we can to act . during the United Nations General Assembly session Baroness Chapman , the Minister for International Development and Africa in the other place , co - host a high - level event with Liberia and the Netherlands on these issue , and condemn the party ' disregard for international law . urgent accountability be the last issue that the right hon . Member raise , and I assure she that that be central to what we be do . the support that we provide to different organisation be clear , include our long - stand support for the International Criminal Court and other organisation bring all those responsible for atrocity to justice . indeed , the first conviction have take place at the ICC in relation to activity in Darfur in early phase of this terrible conflict . the massacre of civilian at El Fasher maternity hospital be just the late in a series of atrocity in Sudan , and 1 . 2 million pregnant and breastfeed woman face famine and malnutrition . sexual violence be widespread , and the Rapid Support Forces be use rape as a weapon of war , in blatant violation of international law . what assurance can the Minister give that the UK be act to alleviate this humanitarian disaster , and can he assure the House that there be no risk of UK - manufacture arm be use by the RSF ? my hon . friend rightly raise the horrific report of sexual and gender - base violence in this conflict . we be provide specific support on that through our woman ' s integrate sexual health programme and the diplomatic action that I mention in relation to my colleague Baroness Chapman and other . we be also look at new programme where we can support woman - lead organisation in respond to the atrocity that have be go on . as I say , that accountability will be key . my hon . Friend ask about the arm control regime , and I assure she that we keep these matter under close review and take any allegation incredibly seriously . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate my party with the remark about Hurricane Melissa , and wish those on the island of Jamaica all our good wish at this difficult time . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for secure this urgent question , and to you for grant it , Mr Speaker . as everyone have state , the report of the massacre of civilian by the RSF in El Fasher be truly horrific , yet the tragedy be that the international community be warn , and there have be a pattern of these terrible atrocity by the RSF . the question for the Minister today be : have the UK do enough ? on 26 June , the Prime Minister say that we do not spend enough time on Sudan in this House . that might be because the Minister for Africa sit in the other place , but when Lord Purvis ask Baroness Chapman on 17 July about the UK ' s work to enforce UN Security Council resolution 2736 on the protection of civilian in El Fasher , she say : " I often find myself ask what the point be of many of these declaration " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 17 July 2025 ; Vol . 847 , c . 2000 . ] be the Minister equally defeatist about the UK ' s role as a penholder at the UN , or will the UK use its position today to press for a Sudan - wide arm embargo ? on the role of UK weapon in the conflict , which have be widely report , will the Minister today ban arm sale to the UAE , until it be confirm that the UAE be not use british weapon to arm the RSF ? the hon . Gentleman raise important issue . give his previous career and have work with he in the past , I know of his sincerity on these matter . ultimately , the party involve be responsible for the conflict . if the allegation turn out to be true , we be clear that anybody responsible must be hold accountable and we will not rest until that be do , both through our role at the United Nations and in relation to support accountability for any atrocity that have be commit . we of course engage on a very close basis . it be not just about statement ; it be about direct contact by our special representative Richard Crowder and the team in Addis Ababa with the party and other member of the Quad . it be also about our role in galvanise international attention on the issue . I agree that for a long time the conflict have not receive the attention that it should have receive , as I have always make clear . we be have a direct impact through the aid and support that we provide , particularly in relation to the horrific impact on woman and girl . the hon . Gentleman ask about arm export . I can assure he that we have one of the tight and most restrictive arm export control regime in the world . we constantly keep these matter under review . I assure he that I be in regular contact with official on these matter , and we will take any allegation that be make very seriously . I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to be as robust as possible on the issue of arm export . do the Government consider the report that UK military equipment export to the UAE have be find on the battlefield to be credible ? have the UAE be challenge on that ? be the relevant export licence under review and , if need , will we cancel they ? I assure my hon . friend that we take these issue very seriously . we take allegation that any UK - make equipment may have be transfer to Sudan in breach of the UK arm embargo very seriously . that reflect the point make by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . the UK have one of the most robust arm export control regime in the world . we constantly assess our licence for the risk of diversion and we regularly prevent export that might be divert to an undesirable end user or end use . we be aware of report of a small number of UK - make item have be find in Sudan , but there be no evidence in the recent reporting of UK weapon or ammunition be use in Sudan . I will keep these matter under close review . I thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker , as you have do with a number of other , but this important issue should not have to come to the Floor of the House by way of an urgent question . the Government must be more proactive . the Minister for Africa give a commitment to the International Development Committee that they would be more proactive during this Parliament , and I hope that that commitment will be honour . will the Minister set out more fully what discussion there have be with the UAE ? not only be there concern about the use of weapon , but it be clear that the UAE have significant influence over the RSF and be a key player . it be state by the Government that we have influence with the UAE , so be we use that influence to ensure that it use its influence with the RSF ? I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment and will ensure that my colleague in the other place be aware of they . we be actively engage on this matter . our team , our official and our special representative be work on this issue every day , so I do not want he to think that we do not take it serious — we absolutely do , particularly in light of the new allegation that have be make in recent day . we be the third big donor and the penholder , and we have be show leadership on the issue over the past year and before that , include under the Government in which he serve , as he know . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Quad and the UAE . we welcome the effort of the US - lead Quad in seek a resolution to the conflict . he will know that the Quad issue a statement on 12 September , which be a significant development , but we remain in close contact with all the relevant stakeholder and party in push for a humanitarian pause , a wide ceasefire and a Sudanese - lead political transition . we will continue to support Quad effort in that regard , include through our role at the UN Security Council . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for secure this urgent question on this devastating topic . my constituent of sudanese heritage , alongside the whole community of the Cities of London and Westminster , be appal by these atrocity . will the Minister update the House on the situation with consular access ? what might UK citizen expect for their family and friend in the region , and what kind of support be this country provide to reach out to they ? my hon . friend speak powerfully on behalf of her constituent , and I know that she be not the only one ; as I mention , my own constituent have great concern about family , friend and other in Sudan and have do so for a long time . it be absolutely right that she put their concern on the record . if I may , I will get back to she on consular access . there be obviously extremely challenging circumstance on the ground — even humanitarian organisation and the United Nations be unable to access the region — but I will get back to she on what step we can take through our consular service . can the Minister explain to the House what be the attitude of other state in the region towards this conflict ? be there any prospect that they could unite and possibly make some form of physical intervention to separate the war side in Sudan ? obviously it be not for I to speak to the individual policy of country in the region , but the right hon . Gentleman will know that , regrettably , to date it have not be possible to find a consensus in the United Nations Security Council on a way forward . we push for that and always attempt to do so in our engagement as the penholder — we will do so again today , particularly in the light of event — but ultimately it be the party to the conflict that be responsible for what be happen . we be in direct contact and be urge restraint . we be all horrify by the attack on El Fasher maternity hospital overnight and the increase death toll . the Minister have highlight the scale of the humanitarian crisis in Sudan , with more than 13 million people displace from their home over the past two year and , sadly , 3 . 5 million child under the age of 5 now suffer from acute malnutrition . we can not allow that to go on . can the Minister tell we what we be do to get humanitarian aid to the million who desperately need it , especially child ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and my noble Friend the Minister in the other place have make it clear that we will continue to play a key humanitarian role , and we have commit to protect our funding to support people affect by this crisis over the next three year . we will provide in total £ 120 million this year , deliver aid to more than 650 , 000 people , which make we the third - large donor . my hon . friend can be absolutely assure that this issue be at the top of our agenda , particularly the situation for child , as she rightly mention . with so many conflict around the world , I be sad to say that we have fail they as a House , as a country and as humanity , whether it be in Ukraine or in Gaza , but what we have not do be forget those other conflict . this conflict be now in its third year , with more than 150 , 000 dead and the bad humanitarian crisis as we speak . we have not only fail they , but forget they . that be what the sudanese diaspora in this country tell I all the time . will the Minister agree to meet with the Darfur Diaspora Association UK and hear its concern , because it feel unheard ? I absolutely recognise the concern of the sudanese diaspora in this country — indeed , I have many different member of the sudanese diaspora in my constituency of Cardiff South and Penarth — and I absolutely assure the hon . Gentleman that they have not be forget by this Government or by many member of this House . many of we have speak on these issue over many year and have work to try to find way forward , to ensure that support be give and there be an end to this terrible conflict . he can be absolutely assure that we engage regularly with different group . I will pass on his request to my colleague in the other place and hope to be able to get back to he in due course . I be grateful to my experienced right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for her urgent question . as the grandson of a proud Jamaican , I be grateful to the Minister for update we on effort to mitigate the impact of Hurricane Melissa . the event in Sudan be inexplicably evil . the brutal murder of people at a hospital in recent day and over many month be frankly crime against humanity , and I add my voice to urge the Minister to engage as much as he can with the sudanese diaspora not just in Newcastle - under - Lyme , but up and down the country . the two word we have not yet hear be " African Union " . can the Minister tell I what engagement have take place with the African Union in recent day to ensure that the power of that body be exercise as quickly as possible ? we need much short question , please . we engage across a whole range of diplomatic relation — our special representative and other do so , and we do so in the United Nations . I be happy to come back to my hon . friend specifically on what contact we have have with African Union representative in recent day . there be many displace people in other country in the region as a consequence of the violence in Sudan . what additional support be the UK Government give to those country to support those displace people ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to talk about displace people — my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) mention Tawila . I can assure he that our humanitarian aid be target to have the big impact , and we look very closely at the situation of displace people , particularly those who have also experience atrocity , and especially woman and girl who may have experience sexual violence . that will remain at the top of our agenda . I thank the Minister for his statement — it be good to have somebody at the Dispatch Box who both understand and care about this issue . we have spend no shortage of time in this Chamber talk about the conflict in the middle east and in Ukraine , but I think all of we be guilty of not talk enough about Sudan . the International Criminal Court be investigate some report of atrocity in Sudan . do the Minister feel that that investigation should extend to those who knowingly export weapon into the conflict ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of accountability . I have already refer to our support for the work of the International Criminal Court and , indeed , wide investigation into allegation of atrocity — we work to support non - governmental organisation and other . I must also highlight the work of the medium in this space , particularly the investigation of the BBC and other medium organisation . as I have say , we keep our export licence under close review , and we take allegation very seriously . I can assure he that I be speak to official about these matter . give that it have be widely report in the press that the UAE be arm the RSF , do the Minister have a view on the follow two point ? first , if any party be export weapon to the RSF , we would be in breach of our export licence criterion if we be export weapon to that party . secondly , it be irrelevant whether or not our weapon be be export and end up in Sudan if that party be export weapon to the RSF . I be very happy to write to the hon . gentleman with further detail of how our arm export licensing criterion operate , but I can assure he that we have one of the tight and strictest export control regime in the world . it be compliant with our international legal obligation , and all potential export be assess against the strategic export licensing criterion . specific allegation have be make in this case , and I can absolutely assure the hon . Gentleman that we will always look into allegation very seriously and consider they in the wide round . I associate myself with colleague ' comment about the barbarity of the event we be see in Sudan . may I ask that in addition to provide support to ensure that civilian be protect , we provide support to ensure that any crime be commit be properly memorialise , so that those responsible can be properly hold to account in the future ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . as I have say , we fund the Centre for Information Resilience , which be an NGO that collate evidence of these crime , and we look at all the evidence that be provide . it be incredibly difficult . we play a lead role in the UN fact - find mission , but of course that mission have not be allow physical access to the region , which be one of the major challenge in assess the allegation that have be make . in relation to the atrocity that have be commit by the RSF in Sudan , Amnesty International have say that " the UK keep approve arm sale to the UAE , even when the risk be stare it in the face . this raise serious question about the UK ' s … complicity in mass atrocity . " this be not the first time that the UK have sell weapon to those accuse of genocide . do the Minister agree that arm export licensing be break , and that we need to immediately re - establish a stand - alone Committee on arm export control , which be abolish here two year ago ? give the atrocious risk that the UK Government face , why do they choose to ignore they ? the hon . Gentleman know how seriously I take these issue , not least as a former member of that Committee . obviously , though , it be for this House to determine its Committees , not I . I can assure he that we have one of the most robust and transparent export control regime in the world . all licence be assess for the risk of diversion , and we regularly prevent export that might be divert to an undesirable end user . I will keep these matter under very close review , and I can assure the hon . Gentleman that they will be consider fully , in line with our strategic export licensing criterion . I call John Grady , who be try to confuse the Chair by sit exactly opposite where he normally sit . I find you eventually . I do apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be talk today about a massacre at a hospital where mum , dad and little baby should be safe and help . with that in mind , those who commit war crime should be hold to account . can the Minister please reassure I that the UK be do everything possible to ensure that international criminal law be enforce , and that its application and enforcement be improve ? can he also reaffirm to I our Government ' s absolute support for the independence of the International Criminal Court ? I can assure my hon . friend of that . we support not only the work of the ICC , but those medium organisation investigate these claim . I mention the UN fact - find mission and the support we provide to specific NGOs on this matter . all party must adhere to their obligation under international humanitarian law , and perpetrator of crime must be hold accountable . I share his absolute horror at some of the allegation we have be hear in the past few day . the massacre at the El Fasher hospital by the RSF be utterly barbaric and mark a new low in what be already a horrific conflict . where be the international community in all this ? what have happen to our duty to protect civilian from such atrocity ? when be the last time that the Government carry out a joint analysis of conflict and stability in relation to Sudan ? in the light of these event , be there plan to undertake another JACS assessment ? be the Government , as they do with Gaza , undertake an assessment of the risk of genocide in Sudan ? as I have say , we keep all these matter under close assessment . we be lead international diplomatic effort . indeed , that be why we have call an urgent meeting of the Security Council today as the penholder . we continue to work with all party to try to bring an end to this conflict . I will happily come back to the hon . member on the specific assessment that he ask about . it be undeniable that what be happen in Sudan be a war on woman , with the use of rape and brutal sexual violence . November mark the 25th anniversary of UN resolution 1325 on woman , peace and security , through which member state commit to protect woman from conflict - relate violence . can the Minister tell we how we be do that , and how we will use this moment in November to ensure that we stand with woman and girl in Sudan and beyond ? I completely associate myself with my hon . friend ' s comment and expectation . I assure she that this issue remain at the heart not only of our work on hold individual responsible and on bring this conflict to an end , but also of the specific support we be provide through our programming for survivor of sexual and gender - base violence . some of the report we have be receive in recent day be horrific . these incident must end . I thank the Minister very much for his well - choose word . I thank the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for secure this urgent question . other mp and I have long be highlight the atrocity take place in Sudan , include stomach - churn terrorist attack , and rape and murder take place daily . it grieve I greatly , and I know it grieve this House greatly . I underline the issue for Christians in particular , who be particularly target in Sudan . the late attack be yet another where the detail make I feel sick to my stomach , yet it be simply an extension of the evil that the world have turn a blind eye to thus far . I know the Minister be honest , so what more will the Government do to deliver the right help and to step up and step in for the people face that devastation in Sudan ? the hon . Member rightly raise the many atrocity that have take place in Sudan on the basis of people ' s religion , ethnic grouping and other minority status . I share his absolute revulsion at some of the recent allegation . he can be assure that , whether it be through our work at the United Nations later today , our work in the programming that we provide or our support for hold the perpetrator to account , this issue will remain at the top of our agenda . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) on secure this urgent question . the attack over the past few day be truly appalling , as colleague have say , but it be not the first time such an attack have take place . the World Health Organisation have verify 285 attack on healthcare facility , with at least 1 , 200 death and more than 400 injury to health worker and patient . can the Minister explain what more can be do to make sure that the RSF understand that hospital and healthcare facility should not be target in the way that it be do and that the sanctity of life have to be consider when civilian population be concerned ? I have always be clear that aid worker must never be target . the shocking death of aid volunteer and other in recent day have horrify the whole world . my hon . friend can be assure that in our contact directly with the RSF and all the party to the conflict , we regularly raise the protection of humanitarian worker and , most importantly , the need for an end to this horrific conflict . for the final Back Bencher contribution , I call Mark Sewards . three day ago , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights state that " Member States with influence must act urgently to prevent large - scale atrocity " by the RSF and ally fighter . but atrocity have happen : 460 people have die in a maternity hospital . what have the UK do since that statement be make , in conjunction with the Quad and the African Union , to try to help those people trap in El Fasher ? while I know that the Minister can not comment on future additional sanction , will he at least consider additional sanction or travel ban for RSF leader and their regional backer ? as my hon . friend know , we keep sanction under regular review . he ask an important question about what we have be do diplomatically . I have mention what we will do later today at the United Nations . I can also confirm that the Foreign Secretary have speak with Abdullah bin Zayed al - Nahyan in the UAE , and the National Security Adviser have speak with the US special adviser on Africa , Massad Boulos . we be regularly in contact with other member of the Quad and speak to the African Union regularly , and indeed host an event with it at the United Nations . I can absolutely assure my hon . friend that we will use every diplomatic lever and every contact we can to try to bring an end to this terrible conflict — not just in the light of the atrocity of the past few day , but in the light of all the loss of life and violence that we have see over the past year . business of the House these question will last around an hour . member will have to police themselves over the length of the question that they wish to deliver . I call the shadow Leader of the House . will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 3 November include : Monday 3 November — second reading of the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill . Tuesday 4 November — opposition day ( 12th allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 5 November — consideration of Lords message to the Employment Rights Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill . the House will rise for the November recess at the conclusion of business on Wednesday 5 November and return on Tuesday 11 November . the provisional business for the week commence 10 November include : Tuesday 11 November — general debate on the contribution of the armed force to mark Remembrance . Wednesday 12 November — opposition day ( 13th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 13 November — consideration of Lords amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . Friday 14 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 17 November include : Monday 17 November — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for that update . I know the whole House will want to join I in send our very good wish to the victim of the hurricane in Jamaica , and now also Cuba , Haiti and the Turks and Caicos Islands . I want to pay a personal tribute to Prunella Scales , who die this week . she be a magnificent actress , the linchpin of a great acting dynasty and — as be her husband Timothy West — a wonderful reader of audiobook . among the news this week have be the follow item : the former Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , have be elect as deputy leader of the Labour party , and have vow to work constructively with no . 10 Downing Street ; the Director of Public Prosecutions have publicly contradict the Prime Minister in relation to the collapse China spying case ; the Labour party have fall in the poll to a record low for a recently elect government ; and irish citizen may now be force to have digital identity card to work in this country under the Government ' s new plan . I would like to raise with the Leader of the House two important issue , one directly relate to the recent business of the House . as a former Chief Whip , he will know that the first question at Prime Minister ' s question always follow a simple formula : the Prime Minister be ask to list their engagement ; he or she typically present public condolence or congratulation and comment on an issue — often an international issue — affect the whole House ; and then say , " this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other , " and so on . unfortunately , since take office last year , the present Prime Minister have increasingly misuse his first engagement question . two week ago , he use it to avoid make a full statement to the House about China , which I do not think can have please the Speaker ' s Office . this week , he use it to try to score a series of partisan political point — by my counting , the eighth time he have try to do this since take office . this be an abuse of procedure , and it be a discourtesy to this House . its effect be to turn an open question into a party political broadcast . it undermine a valuable opportunity to bring the House together every week on a matter of public importance before the usual knockabout of pmq begin . it be unworthy of the Prime Minister ' s office and unworthy of the Prime Minister , who be a very decent human being . therefore , may I politely invite the Leader of the House to ask the Prime Minister to desist ? [ interruption . ] and may I wish he good luck in do so ? my second issue concern the so - call graduate premium . the Government hold an extremely powerful set of datum know as the longitudinal educational outcome — or LEO data — which link people ' s school result , university record and later earning . many people in this House — include , perhaps more than any of we , the Leader of the House — will know that education can transform people ' s live for the well . this dataset can show what happen and how it do so in detail , but most of the datum remain entirely hidden . only limited figure have be publish , such as average graduate earning five year after university . the Government also have information on what happen to those who do not go to university , but this too be withhold , so we still can not answer question that be crucial for many people . how financially worthwhile be a particular course or a particular institution ? how effective be apprenticeship ? what difference do university really make ? the secrecy weaken public trust and good public policy . family and young people be be force to make major life choice without clear fact , because no member of the public or , indeed , Member of this House can see which course or institution genuinely improve this kind of opportunity . it seem that the Government themselves will increasingly use the datum to shape policy , but without make those datum public . People go to university for many different reason , and financial return be only part of the story , but these datum be gather at public expense and describe public outcome . with the right safeguard , they should be open for review and for public debate and discussion . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have explain exactly how , so will the Leader of the House ask his colleague in the Department for Education to make the LEO datum public soon ? let I begin by join the shadow Leader of the House in his tribute to Prunella Scales , who be a fantastic actress , and in his remark about the effect of Hurricane Melissa . the UK be offer full support to Jamaica and many caribbean country in the aftermath of the hurricane . the Foreign Office be deliver humanitarian assistance to affected area , include through specialist rapid deployment team in the region to provide consular assistance to british national . our thought be obviously with the people of the affected area but they be also with those in this country of caribbean heritage , who will be particularly worried at this time . this week , the House mark 75 year since the House of Commons Chamber be rebuild from ruin after it be bomb during the second world war , and I thank Mr Speaker for the event that he have organise this week to mark this important anniversary . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , I be pleased to announce the general debate on the contribution of our armed force , which will take place on Armistice Day . at this time each year , our nation come together to give profound thank to the man and woman of our armed force and veteran — hero who sacrifice so much for our country . I also thank Mr Speaker for the Speaker ' s Conference , which have bring forward its second report , with recommendation aim at tackle abuse and intimidation towards mps and candidate . I thank the conference for this important work . the Government will look closely at the recommendation , not least through my role on the defend democracy taskforce . I would like to express my personal thank to Mike McCarthy BEM , who be depart from the Government Whips Office this week , have serve every government since 1987 . I hope the whole House will join I in wish he well . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] on the shadow Leader of the House ' s remark about the recent election of a new labour deputy leader , I would gently point out that this be do by take the matter to the member of the party , who make their choice — and a very good choice , indeed . that stand in stark contrast to what have happen on the Opposition Benches , where the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have simply foist himself on the conservative party as the unofficial deputy leader . on Prime Minister ' s question , if what the Prime Minister be do be not in order , I would expect whoever be in the Chair to point that out . however , to some extent my right hon . and learn Friend can not win , because if he do not comment on the matter of the day or matter of urgency , people will ask he why , and if he do , he get call out for it . on the shadow Leader of the House ' s point about school result , I know he be a passionate advocate for education , include high education . I absolutely agree that school result and education be transformational in people ' s life . I will draw to the attention to the Secretary of State for Education , who share our view on the transformation that education can bring , his point about what further datum can be usefully make public . let I just add — and before the shadow Leader of the House call I out for knockabout , this be not knockabout , but simply mention some of the thing he might have add — that this week the Government announce an £ 8 billion deal to supply Typhoon fighter jet to Turkey , support 20 , 000 job , with nearly 6 , 000 worker at Warton now know that their job be secure ; Awaab ' s law have come into force , improve life for tenant live in 4 million social rent home across England ; and today ' s announcement of 60 , 000 knife be take off our street be very good news , along with the news that knife crime be fall . I hope life will be change as a result . this be what the Government mean by our plan for change in action : make defence a driver of growth in the economy , and also drive renewal and opportunity up and down our country . may I place on record my thank to the Leader of the House for all his support ? he be a brilliant Chief Whip , and at least now the nation get to share his wit and wisdom . may we have an urgent debate on the accountability of institution for the use of public money ? Walsall College and Walsall council be close the iconic Leather Museum against the wish of local people , but no financial information be available . please could we have such a debate on financial information and accountability ? my right hon . friend be a great champion for her local community , and she be right that local people need to be involve in decision that affect their local community . she have put on record her concern , but I would encourage she to go even far on this matter , perhaps by apply for an Adjournment debate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the comment about hurricane victim and , indeed , with the comment about Prunella Scales . early this week , we be treat to the delight of a Conservative Opposition day , and the main thing we learn be that the Conservatives do enjoy be in opposition . we have the shadow Housing Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , decry the housing crisis that their government leave behind , and the former Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , commit to reduce the welfare bill that go up on their watch . we hear that we be to get yet another Conservative Opposition day next week . the Conservatives be set to get 17 day to the Liberal Democrats ' three in this parliamentary session . we would just gently suggest that , if we want to elevate the debate in this Chamber , we may want to redress that balance in the next session . how many do reform get ? move on to fraud — speak of — I would like to focus on how fraud destroy life . it eradicate people ' s saving , it plunge people into debt and it diminish people ' s faith in human nature . Fraud be on the rise — it be up by almost a fifth — and it make up nearly half of all crime in the UK . I know that the Government be set to release a fraud strategy soon , but there be worry report that a key component be about to be ditch . british bank pick up the tab for fraud in this country . they be the one who reimburse the victim , even though the vast majority of fraud these day happen on online platform . the Prime Minister himself recognise this , say before the election that tech company have a clear obligation and should have a clear financial incentive to tackle fraud . that commitment be what we be worried about be drop — apparently to appease american President Donald Trump . the Government send a gushing letter to big tech ceo over the summer congratulate they on their effort in tackle fraud , but UK Finance and the Financial Conduct Authority both disagree and say that big tech company be not do enough . can the Government publish their fraud strategy and commit to hold big tech company to account , ensure that they be hit in the pocket for not tackle fraud ? I will first respond hon . member ' s point about opposition day , as I have announce not just one but two of they . this might be a matter that he wish to draw to the attention of the Modernisation Committee . I be go to defend the official Opposition here and say gently to the hon . member that the official opposition do have a particular role in the constitution , and we need to be very careful before we start change that simply because an election can produce particular number of seat for other party . I thank the hon . member for raise the fraud strategy . Fraud be a hugely important matter for many of our constituent , and it remain a huge challenge and one of the most commonly experience crime in our country . as he point out , we will bring forward a new strategy later this year to protect consumer and business . we need everyone to play their part in that , and we continue to urge tech and social medium company to take strong action to stop consumer be defraud when use their site . write to and ask they to do that do not necessarily equate with ditch any pledge we have make . last week I have the honour of join the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and Jan and Len — AKA Team Pritchard — in West Thurrock cemetery in my patch to learn more about their work . Thurrock have 82 Commonwealth war grave , and Jan and Len have volunteer to take care of they and make sure that all the name be visible so that the sacrifice of those man and woman be properly remember . as we come to the month of remembrance , will the Leader of the House join I in thank volunteer like Jan and Len for all that they do to make sure that those who sacrifice so much for our country be properly acknowledge and that tribute be pay in the most appropriate way ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this , as she point out , very timely question . first , let I thank the Commonwealth War Graves Commission for all its fantastic work . there be not many , if any , constituency around the country that be not affect by its work in one way or another . let I also place on record my thank and the House ' s thank for the many , many volunteer across our country who work with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and do excellent work to ensure that we remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice for our country . rise — order . colleague can see that it will be impossible for I to get everybody in , particularly if you be 13 minute late — Mr Grahame Morris , you will most definitely not be get in . [ Laughter . ] I call Martin Vickers . the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , send his apology , so I be stand in for he . it be unfortunate that we be go to miss an opportunity for Backbench Business time next Thursday , but could the Leader of the House reconsider the following Thursday ? we will have Lords amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , and that be likely to finish early , so perhaps there could be an hour or two at the end of the day for additional Backbench Business . in Westminster Hall , there will be a debate next Tuesday on the impact of reduction in official development assistance on international development . on 11 November , there will be a debate on support for dyslexic pupil at school . on 13 November , there will be a debate on modern day slavery in Pakistan . on 18 November , there will be a debate to mark the 80th anniversary of UNESCO , and on 20 November , debate on inequality face by unpaid carer and World COPD Day . turn to my own question , I have raise on a number of occasion the impact on my local community of the possible closure of Lindsey oil refinery . there be grow concern among union representative , the local community and possible investor in the refinery , that the Government do not favour a bid that take in the entire site and continue refining product . indeed , one potential investor be consider a judicial review of the process . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement from the relevant Minister in the next few day ? I be not sure I share the hon . Gentleman ' s confidence that the planning Bill amendment will be over as swiftly as he think . there be a question of the balance between the time the Government need in this House for legislation and proper scrutiny , and the right of Backbench Business , of which he know I be a proud defender , but I will look to see whether there be opportunity for slot that need to be fill . I should have say that he be an excellent stand - in for the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and I welcome he to his place . I also commend the hon . gentleman for his dedication to his constituency and for again raise this important matter . our thought remain with the future of the Lindsey oil refinery worker at what we understand be a very difficult time for the community . I know he continue to raise this matter with Ministers . I will raise it with minister and ensure that he and , where appropriate , the House be update on any development . as we approach the end of World Menopause Month , yesterday see the launch of the report by the all - party parliamentary group on menopause into the experience of those from historically marginalise community . the Government be make huge progress on woman ' s health , but we must ensure that no woman get leave behind . will the Leader of the House join I in thank those who contribute to the report , and will he ask Cabinet colleague to consider its recommendation so that we can improve outcome for all woman ? I thank my hon . friend for her work as chair of the APPG on menopause and thank all those who work on this important report . woman experience the symptom of menopause have be fail for far too long . the Government be renew the woman ' s health strategy to tackle inequality and improve access to healthcare for woman across England . I will ensure that minister hear what she have to say , that they see the report , and that , if she want one , she have a meeting with they to discuss it . may we have a debate on the regressive taxation of single parent ? if we look at the cost for 2025 - 26 of employ a single parent on the national living wage for 30 hour a week , we find that the combination of the national insurance threshold go down 45 % , a 6 . 7 % increase in the cost of the national living wage and additional cost relate to national insurance mean that it be 11 % more expensive to employ somebody who be work 30 hour a week on the national living wage . surely that be not what a Labour Government should be stand up for ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , the Chancellor will bring forward her Budget at the end of next month . some of those issue may or may not be address in that , but there certainly will be day of debate after the Budget in which such issue can be discuss . in the meantime , however , I will draw the Chancellor ' s attention to his point and , if we can , get a well answer than the one I can give he . Neil Whitehouse , a love father and grandfather who live in my constituency , sadly lose his fight with cancer early this year . Neil be a lifelong advocate of the NHS , but tragically delay in communication between NHS department may have prevent he receive early , lifesave treatment . we can not give back to Neil ' s family the time they lose with he , but we can ensure that the NHS he love learn the lesson from his case . may we have a debate on improve integration and communication within the NHS to honour Neil Whitehouse ' s memory ? I be sure the whole House will join I in send our condolence to the family and friend of Neil Whitehouse . the 10 - year health plan will deliver a single patient record that will , follow consultation , go live from 2028 . we expect that to go towards resolve some of the issue the hon . Gentleman describe , but he may wish to look towards the Backbench Business Committee or an Adjournment debate to raise they , because I be sure colleague across the House share his concern . at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , the Prime Minister offer scant reassurance to business owner try to create job and growth in the face of high taxis , cost and regulation . the Institute of Directors warn that : " business confidence have plumb new depth " . ahead of Small Business Saturday on 6 December , will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate to celebrate and recognise the business owner work so hard and make great personal sacrifice to support job and service in our community ? we certainly do recognise the importance of small business in our constituency , across community and to the economy in general . that be why , when we bring forward our small business strategy , it be welcome by many small business . the hon . Lady will have the opportunity , not only around Small Business Saturday but as the Budget approach , to make those point to see how those matter might be well address . I recently have the pleasure of visit Arnold u3a , which be brilliantly chair by Hazel Ward and provide excellent activity for more than 500 member . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all the u3a group across Gedling , and will he make time for a debate on tackle social isolation and loneliness through lifelong learning ? I thank my hon . friend for raise awareness of the work of Arnold u3a and Hazel Ward . Loneliness can have real consequence for individual health across our community . the Government be commit to build on the work of our friend Jo Cox in support people to build the social connection they need . I be sure that many people across the House would support such a Backbench Business debate , should my hon . friend request one . Kelloholm be a former mining community in my constituency . like the rest of Upper Nithsdale , it have few amenity , so it come as a complete shock to local people when , out of the blue , SNP - lead Dumfries and Galloway council suggest close the Hillview leisure centre as a possible budget - save measure , despite the centre ' s pivotal role in the community for youth work , employment support programme , child ' s party and other social event , as well as gym , sport and recreation use . will the Leader of the House join I in call on the council to abandon this knee - jerk and ill - consider proposal , which would do real damage in and around Kelloholm , and will he spend more time call out the Scottish Government ' s deliberate policy of starve local authority of the resource they need ? I be not sure it will do the right hon . gentleman much good , but I find myself agree with he on most Thursdays . I thank he for his question . of course , it be a matter for the local authority , but he have highlight in his assiduous way the concern of his constituent . the SNP Government have receive a record funding settlement , and I agree it be such a shame to see vital asset underfunde and , therefore , under threat . I be concerned about antisocial behaviour on Colonnade , Somerset , Parkwood , Gladstone , Shelley , Wolverton and Haviland Roads as well as other nearby . I welcome the Labour Government ' s roll - out of dedicated , visible and contactable officer and the requirement that police respond to all antisocial behaviour complaint within 72 hour . what more be the Labour Government do to keep my constituent safe ? my hon . friend raise an important issue that affect many of our constituent . antisocial behaviour continue to be a blight on the community we serve , but the Government be determined to bear down on it . our Crime and Policing Bill will introduce respect order and strengthen police power to tackle antisocial behaviour . he may wish to raise these matter in person at the next Home Office question . in Wokingham , there be a real issue with mainstream school declare that they can not meet the need of child with special educational need and disability . specialist provider be also unavailable , which leave child effectively out of formal education for many month , if not year . can we have a debate in Government time on radically and rapidly expand the availability of specialist provision for child with SEND to ensure that every child have a place at school ? the hon . Gentleman raise further evidence that the SEND system be break . it do not work for parent or child , and it do not really work for the staff of our school either . we have commit to invest an additional £ 1 billion in SEND funding , but there be a wide issue , as the Government have recognise , and we will therefore be bring forward proposal to radically alter the system . the hon . Gentleman ask for a debate ; should he secure a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate , I think that would actually help the wide debate . early this week , I be pleased to welcome health practitioner , charity and those with live experience to the House when the all - party parliamentary group on spinal cord injury publish its new report , " from Fragmented to Co - ordinate : build a National Spinal Cord Injury Strategy " . the appg officer look forward to the Government ' s consider response . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and the Minister for Public Health and Prevention to meet the appg officer and the secretariat , and could we also have a statement in the House from the Department on the report ' s recommendation ? I thank my hon . friend for his work as the chair of the all - party group on spinal cord injury . he have work tirelessly on this matter across the year ; it be a good example of the campaigning work he do . I pay tribute to he and to the injury unit at Middlesbrough James Cook university hospital , which be a good example but one that , unfortunately , be not always replicate across the country . I be sure that Health Ministers will have hear his concern , and should he and the all - party group want a meeting , I be sure that Ministers will accommodate they . as chairman of the parliamentary support group for the victim of libyan - sponsor IRA terrorism , I welcome the publication of the long overdue Shawcross report . will the Leader of the House accept that the Government must now make a serious attempt to heal the wound and deliver justice for the victim and their family , who have wait so long for compensation ? with that in mind , will he find time for a debate on the report ' s recommendation , the handling of the issue by successive government and the prospect of deliver specific compensation for the victim of the atrocity of the Docklands , the Baltic Exchange and Harrods , among other tragic attack , as call for by the family and specifically the Docklands Victims Association lead by Jonathan Ganesh ? the Government be absolutely committed to bring closure to these matter in a fair way and to get justice for people who have be affect in that way . the hon . Member may wish to look towards the Backbench Business Committee , or indeed apply for an Adjournment debate , so that he can raise these matter directly with and hear from the Minister . this week , over 100 business owner and trade unionist send a letter to the Secretary of State for Business to ask he to form a work time council to review the benefit of move to a four day week nationally , which research now show improve both productivity in business and overall wellness in society . would the Leader of the House grant time to debate the benefit of a four - day week , so we can ensure this important progressive idea can be discuss with the late evidence and public opinion ? I will ensure that the Department for Business and Trade have hear my hon . friend ' s remark . she may wish to seek a Backbench Business debate , or indeed an Adjournment debate , so that she can raise those matter , because of course they have be discuss for a long time and be topical , and I be sure will be of interest across the Chamber . my constituent John appeal his business rate demand 13 month ago as the rateable value on his office be incorrect . he tell I that the business rate appeal be take between a year and 18 month . will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Minister to improve the check and challenge system to support business through what can be a real barrier to survival , let alone the growth that the Government desire ? I will draw that individual case to the attention of the relevant Minister . I remind the hon . member that we be committed to wide business rate reform and will be push ahead with that . hot on the heel of Redditch Scare Fest put on by the excellent Redditch borough council , we be swap mask and pumpkin for Christmas jumper as Gareth Gates , " Pop Idol " runner - up and west end star , join we to switch on the Christmas light on 29 November . if the Leader of the House can not join we himself , will he encourage Redditch resident to put the date in their diary and join we ? it be a very tempting offer , I have to say — albeit a festive but slightly premature message . I will check my diary . as ever , my hon . friend be a positive advocate for Redditch , and I be sure that the people of Redditch will feel the " Spirit in the Sky " next month when Gareth Gates switch the light on , and we thank he for that . we must " say it isn ' t so " that anyone in his constituency would miss such a brilliant event . the Mayor of London be make £ 260 million of cut to the Metropolitan police , axe 1 , 700 police officer and staff , remove officer from school and magistrate court , and now close Bromley police station ' s front counter overnight . that break his manifesto pledge to protect London ' s police station . give that the Government promise to strengthen neighbourhood policing , will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the impact of Sadiq Khan ' s policy and police cut in London ? the hon . Gentleman may wish to seek either an Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate to raise those matter , so that colleague across the House may have their say , include those who be able to point out the number of police officer to which we have commit in order to bear down on crime . when Lloyds close in January , Mitcham will lose its last remain bank , yet Link have refuse a banking hub , claim that the near branch in Tooting be just 14 minute away . that figure come from bus timetable , not real journey by resident , many of whom have record it take 20 minute or long . the whole dialogue risk become a dialogue of the death — a veil of respectability for decision make in the interest of big bank , not the public . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on access to banking , so that common sense — not bus timetable — decide who get a banking hub ? my hon . friend be , as ever , a strong advocate for her constituency . I agree with she absolutely that bank have a responsibility in these matter , but there have be closure in many constituency . I have to say , have be present at the opening of the banking hub in Whitley Bay in my constituency last Friday , that it be a great relief when banking hub be bring forward — include with the co - operation of bank , by the way — to ensure that people have that face - to - face contact . the Government be commit to 350 banking hub , and that be not an upper limit but the current target . as well as ensure that Lloyds come to its sense , perhaps my hon . friend will push for a banking hub . local newspaper and medium outlet often break the most important story for our constituent , but their ability to do so be increasingly at risk . in the last month alone , we have hear of a propose restructure of Reach PLC that put over 300 editorial job at risk , while STV have decide to close its Aberdeen office and axe its northern news offering , which include coverage of my city of Dundee . may we have a debate on the future of local journalism and on job cut in local medium leave community without a trusted local voice ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . many of our constituent will agree with his concern . he may wish to seek a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate to raise those matter . I call my parliamentary chess partner , Warinder Juss , who lose to Kazakhstan by six point . I be very grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week , I have the pleasure of attend the national curry award here in Parliament . Penn Tandoori , which be just down the road from where I live in my constituency , be name Wolverhampton restaurant of the year . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Penn Tandoori for its well - deserve win , and do he agree that it be crucial that the Government invest in and support our local hospitality business so that they can continue to grow and thrive ? I send my congratulation to Penn Tandoori on its win , and to restaurant across the country — include Shikara in Whitley Bay , which win the north - east award — on provide fantastic service to local community . the Government be commit to support hospitality business to thrive , and to create the right economy for they to do so . might we have a debate in Government time on mid - contract mobile phone bill increase , which be a concern I have be raise for a long time ? I be pleased to welcome Ofcom ' s change at the start of the year , but it seem that company such as O2 be find new way around they and increase bill by 40 % . that be shocking when do mid - contract , as customer be not aware of the increase . People can cancel their contract but be not aware of the problem . a debate would allow we to make the public aware that this be go on and look for solution . as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise pertinent issue on behalf of many of our constituent . a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate would allow member to air those concern , which I will also draw to the attention of the relevant Department . this evening , I will join Long Eaton ' s Men walk and talk group , who meet every Thursday to go for a walk in the park and discuss life and their mental health . the group give man a safe space to open up about their mental health and provide each other with judgment - free support . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate that group on everything that they do to support my Erewash community ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the Long Eaton Men walk and talk group on its work . may I also say what a fantastic campaigner he be for man ' s mental health ? our forthcoming man ' s health strategy will set out how we can find the right way to promote healthy behaviour and improve outcome for the condition that hit man hard . many resident be write to I to share their frustration with long delay at the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency follow medical disclosure , describe it as not fit for purpose . I be particularly concerned for young people such as Maisie from Shapwick and Alfie from Canford Heath , who can not use the section 88 clause to keep drive as they be wait for provisional licence , and those such as Joseph , who face dispute over who will pay for the medical report need . may we have a debate in Government time on modernise the dvla so that we can keep people drive and give young people their independence ? the hon . Lady raise issue about DVLA , some of which I be sure be share across the House . she may wish to seek a Backbench Business debate or , indeed , an Adjournment debate , so that Ministers not only hear her concern but see what improvement can be make . at a time when community already feel divided , the leader of the conservative group on Bolton council recently brand a motion on the horrific suffering in Gaza " sectarian " and suggest that muslim councillor care only out of prejudice against Israel . such language not only threaten and undermine local councillor and group such as the Bolton Council of Mosques , who have work tirelessly for community cohesion , but legitimise a divisive climate that go against our british value . do the Leader of the House agree that this behaviour be symptomatic of Bolton Conservatives ' complete disregard for the value of community cohesion ? social cohesion be so important , particularly at this time , and I agree with my hon . friend that this matter should be take seriously . I hope the shadow Leader of the House , who be a decent man , will have hear my hon . friend ' s question and will see what can be do in response . I want to make it clear once again from this Dispatch Box that all of we in public life have a responsibility to conduct debate without recourse to division or offensive language . it would not be business question if I do not raise a certain topic , but I have let the newly appoint Leader of the House settle into his role before I raise the issue of Aldridge train station . in 2021 , the conservative mayor commit £ 30 million to build a new station in Aldridge and we be absolutely delighted about that . however , that risk be undermine by the labour mayor of the combine authority in the west midland , who have divert the funding elsewhere . will the Leader of the House put some pressure on the Mayor of the West Midlands to respond to my letter of many , many month ago and look at way to reinstate that funding ? I be sure that the Mayor of the West Midlands will have hear the right hon . Lady ' s comment today and in the past . I gently point out that whatever commitment be make around transport infrastructure in the run - up to a general election , the money be probably not there in the first place . it be important that the new Government go back and have a look at what money be available and make sure that it be spend appropriately . amazing community group such as the Pickle Palace , Leadgate Salvation Army , Gateshead Youth Initiative and Building Self - Belief have all be nominate by resident in my constituency to receive one of my red kite award , create to celebrate all the work that our incredible volunteer do across the constituency to ensure that our community be vibrant and full of support . may we have a debate in Government time on how we can support the voluntary sector at the heart of our community ? I congratulate every one of the group nominate for the red kite award , include my hon . friend ' s constituency Salvation Army . she will know as well as I do that her constituency produce the world ' s first ever Salvation Army brass band . I think the red kite award be a fantastic way to recognise the importance of volunteer and I thank she for that . should she wish to apply for a debate on support they , I be sure it would be well attend . give the Government ' s difficulty and delay in establish a public inquiry into the grooming gang scandal , will the Leader of the House and the Government consider establish a Joint Committee of both Houses to look into it , with parliamentary power to summon people and paper , to arrive at answer and the truth fast and more effectively ? I like to think that I be across what be happen in the House and , obviously , in politic , but I be lose count of what the hon . Gentleman ' s party want when it come to a grooming gang inquiry . it want one , and then it do not ; and when one be grant , it be not the right one . there be a simple fact in all this : this Government be absolutely determined that there will be an inquiry , that it will get to the truth , that victim will be at the centre of it — how long ? victim will be at the centre of it , and we will deliver the recommendation of that inquiry and improve the situation that the hon . Gentleman ' s party be at risk of play politic with . my eight - year - old constituent , Phoebe , be bravely battle cancer . both her parent and her oncologist believe that a liver transplant offer she the good hope of recovery , but that have be refuse by the NHS trust oversee her treatment . have be tell that there be no right of appeal , her parent be now crowdfunde for a transplant abroad . I have already write to the Health Secretary on this issue , but could we have a debate in Government time about child cancer treatment and support for both parent and child go through this horrific ordeal ? I be sincerely sorry to hear about Phoebe ' s situation ; it must be very painful and worry for she and her family . I will follow up with the Health Secretary , but I know that Ministers have receive his letter , and he will get a response shortly . he may also wish to apply for a debate , but I will ensure that the House be update when the comprehensive national cancer plan be publish in the new year . the Liberal Democrat - chair Buckinghamshire and Milton Keynes fire authority have cook up a dangerous plan to remove nearly a third of the fire engine from the area , include Haddenham . they be also fully close Stokenchurch and Great Missenden fire station in my constituency . can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of not just local fire service but join - up thinking , give that this Government wish to massively increase the number of home build in Buckinghamshire and plaster our countryside with dangerous thing like battery energy storage system , which pose a huge fire risk ? the hon . Gentleman will know that where housing be build , infrastructure be important , and we will want to make sure that it be include in any proposal . he be at liberty to apply for a debate in which to raise these matter . I gently point out that it be for the local authority and the local fire service to decide how they deploy their resource , but we be in this situation because his party leave public service on their knee . the Leader of the House may have hear my question early today to the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) , regard the financing of Cornwall ' s industrial potential . will he meet I and Cornish mp to discuss how we can bring such issue together in a wide devolution package that finally get Cornwall the power and investment that we need ? I be always willing to meet my colleague from Cornwall , so the answer be yes . I have previously raise the case of a young constituent with an inoperable brain tumour . he have since be grant name patient access to a drug that be be trialle , and he be respond well . unfortunately , however , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recently decide not to allow the drug to be use in the NHS in England yet , and the decision will be consider by a second committee in November . my constituent and his family be concerned about the wide issue of access to these drug , and particularly the relationship between NICE and the Scottish Medicines Consortium . would it be possible to have a meeting with Ministers to clarify the situation and see what next step could be take ? I will draw the hon . Lady ' s comment to Ministers ' attention and ask that they arrange a meeting as soon as possible . a tip for member : look at your question , cross out half of it , and speak for half the length of time . we be delighted in Luton to have be grant £ 1 . 5 million from the pride in place impact fund . my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and I have launch a survey to get view from local resident about how we can use that funding to improve our neighbourhood . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the important role of local community and grassroots organisation in shape their place and improve they ? we will be invest £ 5 billion through our new flagship pride in place programme , to support the 244 place that need it most . I be sure that a Backbench Business debate on the subject would be well attend , in which member could far discuss not just the issue of resource , but the need for community to be at the heart of decision making . may we have a statement from a local government Minister about calculated abuse of the planning system — case in which people knowingly proceed with project without plan permission , and then apply for retrospective permission ? cash - strap council feel , on the advice of their officer , that they should grant that permission , as otherwise they might have to fight a legal case . should there not be a presumption against grant retrospective planning permission when the offence have be deliberate ? I invite the right hon . gentleman to raise the matter in an Adjournment debate , or indeed with the Backbench Business Committee — it have be raise by colleague from across the Chamber — so that Ministers can not only hear what he say but respond . yesterday , after a sewage pipe burst , excrement flow into Hayle harbour . that follow the cancellation of the national inter - club surfing championship due to sewage pollution at Porthtowan , and the total and persistent loss of main water in the village of Chiverton , and come on the back of rise water bill . the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be feed up with the lame excuse from South West Water ' s management . will the Leader of the House please help I secure a meeting with Ministers in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to discuss the performance of South West Water ' s management ? we inherit a break water system . we pass the landmark Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 and be give the Environment Agency the ability to tackle all rule break . I will draw this unfortunate case to the Department ' s attention , and hopefully my hon . friend will get the meeting that he seek . my constituent Nicola be from one of 29 family who lose love one in the Chinook helicopter crash . many document have not be release , and the family have be deny truth and justice . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the matter ? in the meantime , will he arrange for the Secretary of State for Defence to meet the family , and the cross - party group of MPs support they ? as I say early , for the sake of truth and justice , it be important that people get access to the information that they need when tragedy like these unfortunately happen . we understand the lack of certainty in the situation . we have only just get the Chinook justice campaigner ' formal claim for a judicial review , so I will not comment on it , but I be sure that the Secretary of State will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . the Metropolitan police have decide not to close a small section of the eastbound A12 during the annual remembrance service at Ilford war memorial , although it have do so for decade . that choice diminish the solemnity of the occasion and the memory of those who give their life for our freedom . in comparison , the community across Europe honour their fall at Menin gate without hesitation every single day . simply pause traffic once a year for two minute for the parade to pass be surely not beyond we . will the Leader of the House assist I in urge the Metropolitan police to think again and reverse this deeply regrettable decision ? my hon . friend will recognise that this be an operational matter for the Met police , but in this case , I hope that local council and the police will work together to ensure that people can come together to remember in safety . in a week when the Home Affairs Committee have highlight the mismanagement and cost associate with asylum hotel , I be deeply concerned about the management of the contract for the Campsfield House immigration removal centre in my constituency . the previous Home Secretary announce that it would be build in August 2024 , and we recently discover at a public meeting that the contract have not yet be tender . will the Leader of the House make time for the Home Secretary to give a statement to the House about the management of procurement and contract in the Home Office , specifically with regard to immigration removal centre ? the hon . Gentleman rightly raise local concern . the Government share his concern about the absolute chaos that inherit regard asylum hotel . I do not have time to go into the detail of what we will do about they , but I will ensure that Home Office Ministers be make aware of this case . he may wish to meet they and make those point himself . accord to NHS datum , while the number of people wait for an autism assessment be level out , the time they be wait be rocket ; the average wait time be 200 day more than it be a year ago . in order to reduce waiting time , integrate care board should follow the NHS England national framework and operational guidance , and provide a standardised autism assessment process , but in many case that clearly be not happen . will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Health Minister to arrange a meeting with I to discuss which icb be struggle to implement the framework , and the action be take to support they to ensure that they have the resource need to follow the framework ? yes , I will . this Government come to power on a promise to restore confidence in government , and ensure that minister be hold to the high standard . in the light of grow public concern about standard in public life , and with senior Government figure make headline for all the wrong reason almost weekly , will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on the nolan principle ? the Prime Minister be very clear about the importance of Ministers operate to the high standard . the hon . Gentleman may wish to secure a debate on the subject himself , because I be sure we will be able to give a response . if he be allude to recent event and issue , I gently point out that the people concern report themselves and have be investigate in an independent way . we need faith when it come to these matter . it be right that people be independently investigate , and that we abide by whatever decision come at the end of it all . my constituent Brian be suffer from cancer and be unable to work . he have be unable to alter his child maintenance payment , despite persistently make contact with those concern over a number of month , and have be pay over half his income . when will the Government react to the inquiry by the Work and Pensions Committee into the quality and pace of the communication that people receive from the Child Maintenance Service ? I be sure that be a distressing situation for Brian , and I know that my hon . friend have already reach out to the Department for Work and Pensions about this case . I will ensure that he get a ministerial response , in the hope that this issue can be resolve . constituent in Pilning be outraged that a stadium - sized warehouse be be build next to the village under a 1957 consent , which mean that modern condition be avoid . another warehouse be plan that be twice the size . will the Leader of the House enable a debate in Government time on tackle outdated interim development order consent that lack modern condition ? the hon . Lady will know that we be seek to change planning law , and if there be a debate on these matter , I be sure that she will want to raise that point . if that be not appropriate , she might want to secure an Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate to raise the concern of her constituent . last month , I raise the case of my constituent in ex - Ministry of Defence housing in Wittering , who face huge backdate gas bill because their supplier will not take they off a Ministry of Defence contract . thing have escalate ; TotalEnergies will not engage , and send only stock reply , tell resident to fill in a transfer form . when they do , they be send further debt collection notice , demand that they cough up a sum of up to £ 8 , 000 or be disconnect within a week . will the Leader of the House advise on how the House can hold such private energy company to account for make our constituent ' live a misery ? it be right that my hon . friend continue to pursue this matter on behalf of his constituent , and I hope that TotalEnergies will have hear his comment today . I also encourage his constituent , if they have not already do so , to contact the energy ombudsman to see whether their case be suitable for investigation . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a full response from the relevant Department . I have have the pleasure today of host the Royal Welsh show rural leadership participant in Parliament ; they be in the Gallery . we meet in Committee Room 12 , which , for those who do not know , be the very place where the Royal Welsh show be form in February 1904 , 121 year ago . will the Leader of the House congratulate the Royal Welsh show on its continued success , and wish its participant from all over Wales well in their endeavour to keep rural Wales the vibrant food - produce community that we all want it to continue to be ? I thank they all for their work — diolch yn fawr iawn I chi gyd . I have be here quite a while , and you learn something every day ; I do not know that about Committee Room 12 . I welcome people from the Royal Welsh show to the Gallery , and I congratulate they on the fantastic work they do . cumbernauld theatre in my constituency be a modern , thriving community venue , but it face closure after Creative Scotland refuse it multi - year funding . the trust be fundraise for the £ 300 , 000 need by mid - December to keep the venue open , but the Scottish Government could still step in and save it . community theatre matter for inclusion ; theatre be not just about city . may we have a debate on the importance of local theatre , and the need for investment in the art ? local theatre be a very important part of the UK ' s creative industry and play a vital role in our local community . in England , our Arts Everywhere fund will include support for local art and music venue . as I have already say today , the SNP Government have receive a record funding settlement , and it be a shame that asset be be underfunde . should my hon . friend seek a debate to highlight this case , I be sure it will be well attend . in Bath we be so lucky to have three independent bookshop : topping & Company , Persephone Books and Mr B ' s . propose change to maximum payment term risk devastate the independent book industry , force it to be much more cautious and less willing to take on debut author . may we have a debate on the propose change , and on how the Government can support the creative industry , of which writer , editor and independent bookseller be very much a part ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise the importance of the independent bookselle industry , and I will ensure that her word be hear by the relevant Minister . we be change maximum payment term , give certainty to company that they will be pay on time . our shopkeeper and family - run firm work hard and they deserve the Government ' s backing . we be determined to give they that backing , but too often they be hold back by late payment . New House Farm school in my part of Mickleover in South Derbyshire be plan and groundwork be complete . the trigger point for the release of the section 106 fund be 314 house , which be likely to be meet in November . however , we have yet to receive a clear signal to go ahead and build the school from the Department for Education and we do not want to lose out . will the Leader of the House please help I to get that clear signal , so that family in Mickleover and the local vicinity can be assure of their child ' s education in a state - of - the - art local school ? I understand the anxiety feel by my hon . friend ' s constituent , and the need for certainty on their child ' s future education . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , have commit to provide an update on the outcome of the review of mainstream free school project later this year . it be a substantial exercise cover 44 project , and I will ensure that member be notify as soon as there be a decision . the Royal Horticultural Society have today launch its report , " space to grow " , realise the potential of the community gardening movement . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise and celebrate the work of Tidy Randalstown in my South Antrim constituency , and look at the opportunity for the Government , along with devolved government , to embed the space to grow campaign in legislation and policy ? I will . this issue be really important for many community , and I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the example from his constituency . community garden be important to bring community together , and often for people ' s mental health , so it be great that he have bring the issue to the Floor of the House . I join he in thank the community gardens movement . I be delighted that next week a new 107 bus will serve resident in the Gunton area of Lowestoft , follow representation that I make to First Bus . however , many of my constituent rely on the no . 99 to get to and from the town centre , and from Monday to Saturday the last bus home leave at 5 . 40 pm , close off our town to tourist . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the impact of bus on local growth and regeneration ? I hope that decision maker in bus company in my hon . friend ' s constituency have hear her passionate support for the right of her constituent to have decent public transport . local public transport should be design with the interest of the local people it serve in mind , and I hope that should this issue arise in future , such campaign will be successful . our landmark Bus Services Act 2025 , which become law early this week , put power over local bus service back into the hand of local leader . Monday 27 October mark International Religious Freedom Day . in the UK , we be fortunate to enjoy the freedom to believe or not to believe without fear of persecution , but sadly in country such as Nigeria and Sudan , which be mention this morning , many religious minority continue to suffer appal daily discrimination and violence . will the Leader of the House join I in mark that significant day , and urge the Government to reaffirm their commitment to make religious freedom a key foreign policy priority ? I be happy to join the hon . gentleman in his cause , which he raise steadfastly . he be right to do so . the UK be commit to defend freedom of religion and belief for all across the globe , wherever that happen to be . no one should experience discrimination for exercise their right to freedom of religion or belief , and I encourage he — I have no need to because he will — to continue to raise these matter in future . as we approach Remembrance Day , I thank the volunteer at Chellaston woman ' s institute , Little Angels at St Andrews nursery , Greener Littleover in Blagreaves , Carlisle Against Crime , scout troop , marine training corp and many more . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise their fantastic effort to honour the courage and sacrifice of our armed force ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in recognise our armed force , and I thank both past and present servicemen and woman for their valiant work in keep we safe . as I look around the Chamber , I see hon . member proudly wear their poppy , so I know that that sentiment be share by member from across the House . will the Leader of the House update we on the progress that be be make to finalise the transfer of the £ 2 . 3 billion reserve of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme ? we be work with BCSSS trustee to consider those proposal . we be try to get an agreement and an outcome that can be implement later this year , and I will ensure that the House be keep update on any decision . Bolton mountain rescue team , base in my constituency , provide lifesave emergency support across Greater Manchester and Lancashire . currently , voluntary search and rescue organisation like Bolton MRT must pay vehicle excise duty , cost the team £ 3 , 800 a year — money that could otherwise be direct to its frontline service . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate to discuss the invaluable contribution of mountain rescue team and what financial support the Government might provide to they ? I pay tribute to the vital work that mountain rescue volunteer and other such organisation provide across our country . there be currently no VED exemption for voluntary search and rescue organisation , but the Government review taxis such as vehicle excise duty annually . I will ensure that the Chancellor have hear my hon . friend ' s comment and concern ahead of the Budget . as I have say , there will be Budget debate on such matter . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , we honour those who give their life for our freedom , and remember the often overlook woman who serve as codebreaker and factory worker , and in countless vital role . in light of that , I have write to Dudley council ask it to permanently install the first ever woman of war silhouette , fund by the Sedgley townswoman ' s guild . I thank its member for their dedication . will the Leader of the House join I in remember the thousand of woman who serve , and continue to serve , and will he make time for a debate about their contribution ? it be our duty to never forget all those who give their life for our country , especially during this Remembrance period . I be always particularly move when I pass the memorial in Whitehall to the woman who serve our country in the world war . they play a fundamental role in the war effort , and we must honour and mark that . on Armistice Day , there will be a debate in the House , and I hope that my hon . friend will be able to make the point that she have raise today . over the summer , I speak to almost 1 , 000 Bracknell Forest resident as part of my campaign on road safety . last week , I publish my finding , with recommendation include more action on off - road bike , uninsured driver and headlight dazzle . will the Leader of the House ask the local transport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , to meet I to discuss my report far ? my hon . friend be right to raise road safety . I will ensure that the Minister hear his remark , and we will see if we can get a meeting for he . on 18 October , the post office in Leiston shut its counter for the final time . will the Leader of the House do two thing : will he join I in urge the Post Office to urgently secure alternative premise , and will he support I in my request to have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss this vital issue ? yes , I be pleased to do both of those thing . a year ago , I deliver a petition to Downing Street call for quieter firework , keep the whoosh but get rid of the bang . this year , firework night fall on a Wednesday . will the Leader of the House consider have a debate on designate a specific weekend for bonfire night and firework , to reduce all the disruption to animal and people ? the Government be acutely aware of the concern , particularly at this time of the year , not least around animal welfare . I encourage my hon . friend to seek either an Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate , so that she can raise those concern and we can ensure that legislation on firework be keep up to date . I warmly welcome the news today from the Office of Rail and Road that competition can start on international rail line to the continent , and I thank the Government for their strong support for that . do the Leader of the House agree that it be vital that the new operator , Virgin , commit to restore rail service to Kent and to train stop at Ebbsfleet and Ashford station ? will he commit to have a debate on this matter ? I join my hon . friend in welcome this news . it be an important step forward in be able to operate cross - border train service use the channel tunnel . it have unlocked investment in new service and will create hundred of new job . it be a win for passenger , customer choice and economic growth . I invite my hon . friend to apply either for an Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate to highlight the matter . last year , my constituent Alexander Johnson bravely intervene to stop a phone theft by armed would - be criminal , have himself be a victim of a violent mugging . will the Leader of the House join I in commend Mr Johnson ' s bravery ? do he agree that step take to address that sort of crime , in particular the Metropolitan police ' s Operation Echosteep , one of the large crackdown on phone theft in the UK , be essential to maintain central London ' s reputation as a centre of culture and tourism , and an economic engine ? I join my hon . friend in commend Mr Johnson for his selfless act of heroism , and I thank she for raise this important matter . we be determined to take the strong possible action to reduce phone theft , and I commend Operation Echosteep . we be back police force by provide they with strong power to tackle this issue in the Crime and Policing Bill . in recent day , a number of woman who have be out in Newcastle - under - Lyme town centre have report be spike . that be both criminal and evil , and do not reflect the town that I live in , represent and know . I have raise the issue with the Home Secretary and with Staffordshire ' s police commissioner . will the Leader of the House join I in urge Staffordshire police to work around the clock to find the criminal who do this ? I urge the Government to do all that they can to ensure that our community up and down the United Kingdom be safe for woman and girl . I be sorry to hear about the case raise by my hon . friend , and I join he in express the importance of this matter . violence against woman and girl be a national emergency . our mission be to halve level of it within a decade . the Crime and Policing Bill will introduce new criminal offence for spike , and our upcoming violence against woman and girl strategy will look across the whole of Government to see how we can well protect victim . do the Leader of the House believe that sufficient progress be be make in roll out additional driving test appointment ? learner driver and their instructor in Glasgow West would suggest not . will he agree to a debate in Government time on the issue ? from a personal perspective , the short answer to my hon . friend ' s question be no , I do not believe that the issue be be address swiftly enough . however , we be take action to deliver an additional 10 , 000 drive test every month and we be accelerate a consultation into abuse of the drive test booking system , which I understand be a big part of the problem . I will ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear her concern , but my hon . friend may wish to raise the issue in a Backbench Business debate . Ruby Bishop be an incredible wheelchair tennis player from Norwich , who proudly represent Great Britain internationally . despite her success , she face many barrier at school to access sport . she be now campaign to change thing for other child and young people . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Ruby , and will he make time for a debate on how we can make sport and physical education inclusive for all child ? Ruby sound like an exceptional individual , and of course I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to she . our Inclusion 2028 programme will improve opportunity for pupil with special educational need and disability to take part in sport . I think that this would be a popular topic for a Backbench Business debate , so she may wish to apply for one . Weston - super - Mare and Worle resident be rightly proud of their community , but abandon commercial waste and rubbish fill its once proud public space undermine our town and civic pride , and the burden of clean up have be shift on to cash - strap council and volunteer . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate on how business , council and community can all help to keep our high street clean ? I invite my hon . friend to apply for either a Backbench Business debate or an Adjournment debate on the subject . he be right that everyone have a role to play . local authority have a key role to play in use their power to ensure that space be keep clean . as part of our pride in place strategy , we plan to bring forward statutory enforcement guidance on thing like litter and fly - tipping . we need super - short question . I will try to get everybody in . we have fantastic further education provider in Cornwall , and I welcome the Government ' s recent announcement . however , one of our challenge be the cost and availability of public transport to get learner to and from their college and workplace . will the Leader of the House arrange for colleague in the Department for Transport to meet I to ensure that student in coastal area can get to college ? yes , I will . I recently meet with my constituent Ally and Jemma , who found we be Repairs , an online community of 3 , 000 business member bring repairer together to combat throwaway culture . will the Leader of the House join I in commend they for that work and commit to ensure that the House receive an update on the progress of the circular economy taskforce ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate his constituent on their important work . the work of the circular economy taskforce be a vital component of our sustainability ambition . we will ensure that Britain be a world leader in circular innovation and will make we a clean energy superpower , and I will ensure that Ministers keep the House update . my knee nearly give way when I run the Morley 10 km last month , which be possibly the hilli race in the UK . it ' s all the bobbing . it ' s partly the bobbing , too . I persevere , and I do so because Morley run club have raise £ 20 , 000 for good cause over the past four year . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Morley run club , to the firefighter who be raise money for their charity — firefighter in full kit be outpace I — and perhaps grant a debate on the need to support these run club to run more charitable race , but perhaps one that be less punish on the knee ? I congratulate Morley run club and the local firefighter on raise money for such a good cause , and I congratulate my hon . friend on finish the run himself — for I , I think more than my knee would be give way . it be a great contribution of community group and volunteer come together , and it bring out the good in our local community . early this month a 12 - year - old girl be hit by a car while cross a dangerous crossroad on the A5 in Bridgtown . despite be throw to the other side of the road , she miraculously escape with minor injury , but the incident have reignite long - stand concern from resident — include her parent , Andrew and Becky — about pedestrian safety at the crossing . will the Leader of the House join I in urge National Highways to review this crossing , and may we have a debate on improve pedestrian safety on major road in order to prevent further tragedy ? I be glad to hear that the girl in question suffer only minor injury , but this be nevertheless a tragic event and my hon . friend be right to raise those concern . I urge National Highways , and everybody else who have a role to play in this matter , to listen carefully to what he ask for . he may wish to highlight that through either a Backbench Business debate or an Adjournment debate . the Royal & Derngate in Northampton have be name the UK ' s most welcoming theatre . will the Leader of the House join I in commend Jo Gordon , the chief executive ; Jesse Jones , our artistic director ; and all the team at the Royal & Derngate ? I congratulate the Royal & Derngate theatre on be name the UK ' s most welcoming theatre . local theatre be an important part of the UK ' s creative industry and play a vital role in our local community . I thank everyone involve with the theatre concern . my constituent Clive have a rare and incurable neuroendocrine cancer . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have recommend that selective internal radiation therapy could be use for people with his condition and would improve both life quality and expectancy , but that still be not happen . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on what more be need for the NHS to finally fund and implement this cost - effective and prove treatment ? I be sorry to hear of the concern of my hon . friend ' s constituent . the Government recognise the need to offer patient the most suitable treatment , but my hon . friend will know that radiotherapy treatment for cancer be highly individualised , and decision be make , quite rightly , by clinician . I be sure that Ministers will have hear his concern . some of the concern that he have raise will be share by member across the House , and he may wish therefore to raise they in a debate . I be proud to welcome thousand of visitor to my constituency recently to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Stockton and Darlington railway , but we want to build a permanent tourism legacy . will the Leader of the House help I to meet the relevant Minister to discuss whether we could put forward this fantastic , historic line to be a UNESCO world heritage site ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to champion such a worthy cause . as the House will know , the Stockton and Darlington railway be the first public railway to use steam train . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to make his case . reform - lead Lancashire county council propose to close a gritting depot that serve my borough of Rossendale , which could cause absolute chaos this winter . that be just one of many cut that reform be consider , with nursery and care home already in the firing line . will the Leader of the House join I in call on Lancashire county council to listen to our community and stop cut the service that we rely on ? it would not be business question without a question about the mismanagement of reform - lead Lancashire county council . I congratulate my hon . friend on raise these matter , and he be of course right to continue the fight for the service that his constituent rely on . as I have say previously , raise these matter in Adjournment debate or in Backbench Business debate shine a light on the record of Reform council not just in Lancashire , but across the country . I thank member for work with I and for speak at lightning speed . I also thank the Leader of the House , who have get his exercise in for the week . infected Blood Compensation Scheme with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will update the House on the Government ' s progress in establish an infected blood compensation scheme . in July the infected blood inquiry publish its additional report , which make a number of recommendation on way that the compensation scheme could be amend to achieve a scheme that work well for all infected and affected people . I update the House then to confirm that the Government be respond positively and that we would bring forward legislation as soon as we could to address the recommendation that we could implement immediately . the regulation that I be lay before the House today will achieve a number of those change and demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to respond swiftly and constructively to the inquiry ' s recommendation . specifically , the regulation respond to five of the inquiry ' s recommendation by remove the HIV eligibility start date ; remove the minimum earning threshold for a person to claim the exceptional financial loss award ; remove the requirement for evidence of the date of diagnosis of hepatitis B or c ; make change to the deeming provision for the severity of hepatitis C ; and expand eligibility to include estate of all affected people who have die between 21 May 2024 and 31 March 2031 , which actually go far than the inquiry ' s recommend date range . the regulation also put back the transfer of responsibility to make support scheme payment from the infected blood support scheme to the Infected Blood Compensation Authority — ibca — by one calendar year . that mean that ibca will begin make phase support scheme payment from January to March 2027 . IBCA request that change to allow it to concentrate on accelerate the delivery of compensation and expand the service to all eligible group this year , while ensure — this be essential — that there be no disruption to those receive support scheme payment . there will of course be a separate opportunity for the House to debate these regulation in full detail before they be approve , and I look forward to that debate . I would also like to inform the House that we have implement the inquiry ' s recommendation to reinstate support scheme payment to partner bereave after 31 March this year until they have receive compensation . application for those individual reopen on 22 October , and I be grateful to colleague across the devolve Administrations and the support scheme for the collaborative approach to make that happen . today I be launch a public consultation on propose change to the infected blood compensation scheme , as recommend by the inquiry . I encourage response from the infected blood community and from all those with an interest in the infected blood inquiry . I assure hon . member that every response will be consider carefully . the consultation set out question across seven specific issue : harm cause by interferon treatment ; the special category mechanism and its equivalent ; severe psychological harm ; past financial loss and past care ; evidence requirement for exceptional loss ; supplementary award for affected people ; and unethical research . the Government have seek initial advice from an infected blood compensation scheme technical expert group to develop proposal on those topic in response to the inquiry ' s additional report for this public consultation . the feedback we receive through that consultation will inform the decision that the Government take . the technical expert group will also take part in target engagement with the community . I previously give the House an undertaking that transparency would be at the heart of any expert group go forward . that be why the five additional member who have be appoint to the technical expert group be appoint follow valuable feedback from infected blood community stakeholder , and it be why I be today publish the minute of the group ' s meeting that have take place so far . I look forward to hear the view of the community within the consultation process and beyond as we work together to ensure that the Government ' s response meet expectation . we will publish a response to the consultation on gov . uk within 12 week of it close . as I set out in July , we will also need to bring forward further regulation next year to implement change follow the outcome of the consultation . listen to and work with the infected blood community be essential to ensure a compensation scheme that work for everyone , and I be hopeful that this consultation will allow we to do just that . I now turn to the delivery of the compensation scheme as it currently stand . IBCA have make significant progress in the delivery of compensation . as of 21 October , 2 , 476 people have receive an offer of compensation , and over £ 1 . 35 billion have be pay . IBCA reach the significant milestone of have pay out over £ 1 billion in compensation last month , which I be sure the House will agree be welcome and notable progress in the delivery of compensation . I can also tell the House that offer totalling over £ 1 . 8 billion have now be make . as of the end of September , all infected people register with a support scheme have be contact to begin their claim , and IBCA have set out its intention to open to unregistered infected people in November . in order to open , ibca must build a service that allow it to confirm an infection before a claim begin , check the identity of each person claim , and ensure that all the necessary legal and financial support be in place for anyone who wish to use it . this approach , which ibca also take with the first group of people make a claim , mean that the number will initially be low . however , I expect that — as with the first group — those number will rise exponentially as progress be make . early this month , IBCA also launch a registration service for people who intend to make a claim to register their detail . as of 21 October , it have receive 10 , 573 registration of intent to make a compensation claim . to be clear , that figure represent all registration , not unique people or claim . those registration will be particularly helpful in identify the unregistered infected people for the next group , and indeed more as the service grow . as member of the House be aware from my previous statement on this matter , ibca be an independent arm ' s length body , and it be vital that we respect that independence while also ensure that I do what I can to drive progress forward . that be why in July I ask for an independent review of ibca ' s delivery of the scheme . that review , lead by Sir Tyrone Urch , begin in August and conclude early this month . I be today publish that review and have deposit a copy in the Libraries of both Houses . the report note that IBCA have make " substantial early progress " towards deliver compensation to victim of infected blood , but it also make recommendation to aid the scaling - up of operation and the delivery of compensation to complex cohort . I will , of course , consider all of those recommendation carefully . alongside ibca ' s delivery of the compensation scheme , the Government have continue to make progress on interim payment . in July I inform the House that we would make a further interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to the estate of infected person who be register with an infected blood support scheme or predecessor scheme and have sadly pass away , in addition to the interim payment of £ 100 , 000 that open for application in October 2024 . I be pleased that application for those payment open last week , mean that some estate could now be eligible for up to £ 310 , 000 in interim payment . since application for the initial interim payment open last year , over 600 estate have receive payment , total over £ 60 million . that be in addition to the £ 1 . 2 billion that the Government have pay in interim compensation more widely . I hope that this additional interim payment bring some temporary relief to the family impact , and I also hope that IBCA ' s intention to begin the first claim on behalf of estate of deceased infected people by the end of this year provide some reassurance . I be resolute that we get this right , and I hope the progress I have set out today show that we be take positive action and , crucially , listen to and make progress alongside the community . after all , those who have be so impact by this horrendous scandal must be at the core of every decision we make , in Government and across this House — they deserve no less . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for advance sight of it — although just under an hour be not a lot of time to digest 75 page of documentation , so I will do my good . I join the Minister in acknowledge the work do by Sir Brian Langstaff and his inquiry , as well as the serious improvement in the pace of payment that IBCA have make in recent month . we thank Sir Robert Francis , David Foley , and all their team at ibca . on behalf of the Opposition , I welcome the measure that the Minister have announce that implement some of Sir Brian ' s recommendation from the additional report , particularly those deal with HIV eligibility start date , the deeming of severity band , evidence of the date of diagnosis , affected estate , and bereaved partner support scheme payment . turn to the recommendation relate to hepatitis , we of course welcome confirmation that the Government will remove the earning floor on the supplementary route exceptional loss award . however , I do not hear any specific reference in the Minister ' s statement to measure to address recommendation 4 ( c ) of the original report , which deal with effective treatment . perhaps the Minister could set out how the Government intend to give effect to that recommendation . similarly , could he set out what measure the Government be take — beyond the appointment of the new member of the technical expert group that he have announce — in response to recommendation 2 ( e ) , which deal with the transparency of scheme design ? that be particularly important in light of the inquiry ' s worry find that victim do not feel that they be be listen to . I now turn to the recommendation that the Government do not feel able to accept immediately . I welcome the fact that the Minister be consult on a way forward on those issue ; clearly , as I have say , there be a need for transparency and proper consultation . the consultation period will last until the end of January next year . we recognise that there be little that the Minister can do about that clearly define period , but give the need to address these measure without undue delay , will he ensure that once that consultation period close , the Government respond swiftly to the consultation paper and introduce any necessary further regulation with maximum speed , so that this House can consider any further measure that be necessary ? more broadly , how be the Government apply the lesson learn from the implementation of payment scheme for people infect to well inform the operation of payment to people affect and to their estate , as he refer to in his statement ? what action be the Minister take with the independent ibca to ensure that the pace of payment , which have see welcome progress , continue to accelerate and be not jeopardise by change to rule and process ? as I say , Sir Brian ' s inquiry have do incredible and invaluable work to give a voice to those who have battle so courageously against decade of injustice , and to ensure that victim and their family have some remedy , although clearly no amount of money can ever reverse the terrible harm do by this scandal over many year . the recommendation in the additional report that Sir Brian publish shortly before the summer be an invaluable contribution . look forward , there will need to be a degree of policy certainty as we move from a period of review to one of rectification and delivery . that be one reason that the cross - party work , both before and since the election , have be so important to give confidence and certainty . look ahead , do the Minister have any indication as to when we might expect the inquiry to draw to a close , and what might the mechanism be for do so ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for the tone of his remark . I note what he say about the time he receive the statement and other document , and he know I well enough by now to know that I have great respect for this House and will always facilitate shadow Ministers have material with plenty of time . I will certainly take that issue away and look at why that happen . I join the shadow Minister in pay tribute to the work of the inquiry and to Sir Robert Francis and David Foley , IBCA ' s chief executive . this House rightly have hold I to account for the number of payment . IBCA be run a test - and - learn approach , and I always say to the House that there would be a small number that be a representative sample of case , which would then allow IBCA to scale up exponentially . we be now in that exponential phase — that steep curve . I look every single week at the number of payment , and it be start to increase significantly . I know that member across the House will welcome that . the shadow Minister make a point about treatment for hepatitis . one of the thing we be look at in the consultation be the impact of interferon , which have such a detrimental impact on so many people . the shadow Minister be right to raise the transparency mechanism . while I do not need a piece of legislation for that , I be look at that mechanism and want to get it into place as soon as possible . the shadow Minister ask about the 12 - week consultation . the Government will respond to that within 12 week , and I will then want to bring forward a fourth set of regulation with the great possible speed . the shadow Minister ' s final point be about learn lesson , and that be precisely why I ask Sir Tyrone Urch to carry out his work . first , it be about learn the lesson from what have happen so far and how we can well take thing forward . secondly , it be about the practical step I can take to assist IBCA with scale up and make payment to affected people , which will clearly be a far large number of people for ibca to deal with . to finish on a consensual point , the cross - party support on this issue have be important . the continuity between the work I have do and the work of my predecessor as Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) have be hugely important in the delivery of this scheme . I welcome the statement from my right hon . friend . this issue have its origin back in the 1940 , and it have be go on for an extraordinarily long time . the state have not be respond to or provide information to the people it should have be there to serve . we find ourselves in a situation where people have live almost all their life wait for compensation , and now this issue be arise that they may pass away , have just receive compensation , and their estate will then be subject to inheritance tax . the state be give with one hand and take back with the other . I realise that my right hon . friend be not in the Treasury , but we need to take that issue forward . there be also this outstanding issue of support to the campaign group that support the application of people who be infect and affect . part of one of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation be that they need extra support from the Department of Health and Social Care . on both these issue , what can my right hon . friend do to assist the people make these application and to get they the response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation that they deserve ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work with the all - party parliamentary group . on the first question , the compensation that have be receive clearly be exempt from tax . I understand exactly the point he be make about someone , such as a widow , who inherit or have the compensation on behalf of a deceased partner . that money will be receive tax - free , but I appreciate his point about the speed that be need , because of the age of so many of the victim of this scandal . that be through no fault of their own , but be the fault of the state . the tax exemption be in line with the policy that be pursue consistently across Government . on his second point about the campaign group , I be conscious that we be approach the end of another tax year . I pay tribute to the work that the charity do , and I undertake to he that I will take up that matter with the Department of Health and Social Care . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Minister will see my pile of paper , which I hope be criticism that I never have to raise again . I welcome his statement and the work be do , particularly by Sir Brian Langstaff and other . I also welcome his intention to listen to and work with the infected blood community . this scandal remain the bad treatment disaster in the history of our national health service , and it be a source of shame for successive government and for the health service . we have hear from our constituent , who have be let down by medical professional and the NHS . in many case , they be victim of deliberate malpractice and cover - up . all those warning about unsafe blood be ignore and official fail to inform patient . in many case , those patient pay , or be still pay , with their life . an estimate 30 , 000 victim suffer , and that suffering be compound by the further injustice of have to wait decade for compensation . as of my late datum , I understand that six time as many people have die wait for justice as have benefit from this scheme . I hope the Minister can update I with a slightly more accurate figure . payment to date have be make at an infuriatingly glacial pace . I would like to ask the Minister about the timeline for deliver compensation . can he reaffirm that all eligible victim — all 30 , 000 — will receive compensation by 2029 ? will he confirm that the consultation he will undertake will not delay in any way or affect the speed at which the payment be be make ? more specifically , I have challenge he before about the 916 victim of the special category mechanism . be they in a different state from the advice give in August last year ? have thing change completely from the situation in February this year , when the rule change ? I just want to check something that I be not entirely clear about . with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , the current approach be that people could not apply for compensation , and you be now say that they can and that they will not have to wait — order . Ms Munt , you say , " you be say " , but I be not . I hope you be come to a conclusion . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . can the Minister confirm that people will not have to wait and that those 10 , 573 registration be only part of it , when we recognise that there be 30 , 000 victim ? I thank the hon . Lady for the tone of her comment . on her final point , that number be just the number of registration , not the totality of the number of victim . on the point that she raise , I entirely share her concern . as I say when I give evidence to the inquiry in May , the test that I always have at the forefront of my mind when make change be about not cause additional undue delay to the payment of compensation . the hon . Lady ask I about 2029 ; that be a backstop , not a target date . I say that to the inquiry in May as well . the target be to get the payment out as quickly as possible . as I say in response to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , the test - and - learn approach be always take because we feel — and IBCA feel — that that would ultimately be the way to get the money out to the large number of people as quickly as possible . I think we be now in an exponential phase where the number of payment be go up quickly . the hon . Lady be entirely right to draw attention to the number of people who have die before actually secure justice . that be again a reason why I have be push for payment to be make as quickly as possible . finally , the special category mechanism be one of the seven issue mention in the consultation . I know this have be ask before , but I would urge she and her constituent to respond to that . I thank my right hon . friend for the content , clarification and tone of his statement . it be clearly an awful situation . I would like to speak up for my constituent in Easington and to seek some clarification regard those people who contract hepatitis C . will the Minister confirm that all in the infected blood community , include those suffer with hepatitis C , will have access to the consultation , as recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff ? I understand that the consultation close in January , and he mention that there would be a 12 - week period in which the Government would consider that . the straight answer be yes . my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for the victim in his constituency of Easington . whether for hepatitis c victim or the other victim of this scandal , I want the consultation to be as accessible as possible , and I very much hope that he will encourage his constituent to respond to it . the Minister be clearly totally committed to this subject , and I thank he for the way in which he reach out to the mps he know have an interest in it . will he join I in commend ibca for the quality of its communication ? both the website and the mps ' toolkit recently send out could not be more free of jargon , which set an excellent example . go back to the point raise by the chair of the APPG , the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , as I understand it , if a compensation grant be make to the family of someone who have already die , those relative will receive it tax - free , but if the grant be make to the individual shortly before their death , the very same family member might have to pay inheritance tax on it . that be clearly an anomaly , so will the Minister speak to the Treasury about it ? I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman , who have campaign on this issue for many year . on his first point , I agree ; whether the document and communication be from the Government or the ibca , I be constantly press for plain English . to be fair to those task with produce those document , some of the content be complicated , but try to communicate in accessible way be hugely important . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s second point regard the tax exemption , he be correct , I think , in his interpretation that there be a single tax exemption . the compensation be receive free of tax in the first instance , but there be no subsequent tax exemption . that be in line with general Government policy on tax exemption across the board . I thank the Minister for his statement . on lesson learn , I hope he have look at the National Audit Office ' s work on different compensation scheme so that we can learn from that . I also hope that he support the national campaign to encourage people who receive a blood transfusion to get test for hepatitis C , as two people a month be contact the helpline to say that they be infect during the relevant period . to press the Minister far on the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) and the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , under this scheme people get compensation because they be die due to infected blood ; it be not random , coincidental or due to something else . if they happen to receive the compensation just before they die , their family will pay inheritance tax on it . the victim want to ensure that their family be properly support , because they be no long able to do that , so will the Minister renew his effort to talk to the Treasury about this issue ? this be a small , define group of people , which do not need to set a more general precedent , but for this particular scheme — where the state fail people so much — the issue be an important one to resolve . I pay tribute to the work that my hon . friend do on this . I entirely agree with she about learn lesson from the different compensation scheme across several government in recent decade . on her second point , regard tax exemption , I have set out the Government ' s position , but I hear very strongly what member be say . I thank the Minister for his meticulous and thorough analysis of all the different strand of this challenging problem , and for the work he have do to deal with the complexity of different group ' concern over delivery of the compensation . I also thank Sir Brian Langstaff for what he have do . however , after six year , £ 140 million have be spend on this inquiry — and we do not yet have the account for the current year . in Sir Tyrone Urch ' s review , which the Minister mention , the first recommendation be regard policy stability . can the Minister say something about how we will achieve that policy stability ? respectfully , be it not time to thank Sir Brian and Sir Robert for their work and then focus on the delivery of IBCA , rather than have more iteration of recommendation , which do not achieve much for the individual who need this accelerate ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the painstaking , significant work he do when he be Paymaster General . the reference to Sir Tyrone Urch and his report be apposite , because I ask Sir Tyrone to look at the working of ibca — to look , practically , at what barrier be still there to deliver compensation quickly . of course , Sir Tyrone ' s first recommendation be around policy stability . as I say when I be before the inquiry in May , we would not want to be make change to the scheme that be detrimental to the ability to deliver the compensation quickly . that be something that I think be really important go forward . I congratulate and thank the Minister for his work on this ; I know how much of his time it be take . far to the point make by my hon . friend the Members for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) and for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , and the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , there be a perversity in the people who be fail by the state potentially be ask to repay 40 % of their compensation to the same state that fail they . the Minister have clearly set out that that be in line with policy ; be he willing to stand at that Dispatch Box and state , categorically , that that be fair ? if he can not say that it be fair , will he at least undertake to again raise this issue with the Treasury , so that those people who be fail by the state be not then penalise by the state ? my hon . friend and a number of member have make that case powerfully . I will say to the House that they can be assure that I look at all aspect of this scheme and test whether they be fair , and I think we can see , across party , the strength of feeling on this today . I congratulate the Minister on make real progress on this matter , after many year of delay . I recently meet Jean Hill and her daughter . she have be campaign on this issue for 30 year . sadly , her husband die in 2004 at the age of 48 ; his brother die at 25 ; and a nephew die in more recent year . what assurance can the Minister give I — and Jean — that payment to deceased estate will be expedite as a matter of urgency , and what additional resource will be put in place to achieve that ? I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his work ; I know that he have raise this issue on previous occasion . with regard to deceased estate , he will have hear what I say in my statement about the interim payment . additional interim payment have just open , which show the urgency of the situation to the Government and the importance of the money get to where it be need . that be why I make sure that those payment be open in recent week . I thank the Minister for his statement today , and for the work that he have do . one issue raise by a constituent be that when she apply for the interim payment , she fill out lot of form and give information , as she have be do for many year , because her husband die some time ago , have contract infection back in the 1970 . she now have to apply again , and the same information will be ask for . there must be a way of expedite the process to make life slightly simple for people like she . she , too , be in a situation in which , at the age of 88 and have not receive all the payment that she be likely to get , she be worried about inheritance tax — not on her own behalf , but on behalf of her child . I be sorry to belabour the point , but may I add my voice to those around the Chamber ? perhaps those voice will help the Minister to have the ammunition to take to the Treasury to say , " we ' re not happy with this . " with regard to my hon . friend ' s first point , on the interim payment , there be an expedite process if the detail be unchanged from the first interim application . if my hon . friend write to I with the particular detail of her constituent , I be happy to look at that . on her second point , I think the strength of feeling in the House be very clear . on previous occasion , I have pay tribute to the Minister for his sincerity and hard work in this matter , and I add to that the collegiate and consensual way that he approach all of this , particularly in his work with the devolved administration , include the Scottish Government . I previously ask for the work of voluntary organisation — third - sector organisation — to be place on a statutory footing . the Minister will understand that despite the system be fairly straightforward and simple , as have be acknowledge , claimant still need support , particularly those who be unwell . can the Minister advise whether that work have now be place on a statutory footing ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , I have work with the devolved Administrations throughout . we have to take into account that this be a pre - devolution scandal , so it be UK - wide , and a number of Sir Brian ' s recommendation from his initial report be UK - wide . they be now within devolved competence , so this be hugely important . I have always be conscious of that , and I work with the devolved Administrations in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales . with regard to the hon . Gentleman ' s second point , on the issue of voluntary body , a couple of different issue be mix up on that question . if he write to I precisely about put work on a statutory footing , I will give he an answer . more generally , the work of voluntary body and charity in support victim have be absolutely invaluable , and I be very conscious of the financial pressure they be face . so many life have be scar or end by this betrayal of trust , cover - up , denial and delay , and my constituent have wait for up to decade for justice . many be concerned that they will not see it in their lifetime . can the Minister outline how he will ensure that my constituent and the infected blood community find the consultation accessible , and can he say when the third set of regulation that have be publish will become law ? on my hon . friend ' s second question , and subject to the will of the House , I would really like the third set of regulation to become law by the end of the year . his advocacy for his constituent have never be anything short of impressive , and I be more than happy to look at any specific case that he bring to I . I thank the Minister for his commitment to find solution , and for his incredibly compassionate demeanour in handle these issue . I think we all thank he for that . the streamlined scheme for compensation open just three week ago ; can the Minister confirm that it be indeed now easy for people to access the money that they deserve ? I hope that the scheme be not add more worry and stress to those who live their life under a burden not of their making . be the Government truly share the load with they , and what more can the Minister do to make the process smooth ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman make a very useful point , build on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) a moment or two ago . I be very keen to ensure that the consultation be as accessible as possible , and some of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation — for example , about how we calculate past and future loss — be quite technical . I always say to both the Department and IBCA that it be really important that we do everything we can to make the system simple , but we also need ready explainer . the hon . Gentleman can be assure that I will continue to push for they . I thank my right hon . friend for his continued compassion and commitment to the cause , and for the communication that we have have about affected constituent in my constituency . as he will recall , their concern be about bureaucracy and delay . give what he say in his statement , can he assure I that this Government remain committed to ensure that all affected and infected individual will see their compensation as quickly as possible ? what assurance can he give I and my constituent about when they will be invite to start their claim ? I be grateful to my hon . friend ; as ever , he make a powerful case on behalf of his constituent . at the moment , offer have be make that be worth over £ 1 . 8 billion , but I remain restless about the speed of progress ; I want it to continue to increase . I be very conscious that ibca will be move from deal with those who have be infect to the much large number of people who have be affect . I appoint Sir Tyrone Urch to look at the lesson that we can learn , and at how IBCA can well scale up to deal with a much large number of claim . indeed , over 10 , 000 claim have be register . I stand ready to assist and support ibca as we move forward into a new phase . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his very clear personal commitment on this issue . he will be aware that build and maintain trust between the affect family and the Government be essential . I be sure he will agree that the Hillsborough law , which come before the House next week , be one example of how we can continue to repay that trust and demonstrate that we be determined to see recommendation , such as the duty of candour , put in statute . my constituent who be affect by the scandal still continually ask I for reassurance on transparency , so will he consider publish regular datum on claim receive , assess and pay , so that the public can clearly see the progress that be be make — exponential or otherwise ? my hon . friend be entirely correct about transparency . ibca continue to publish statistic , which be very important . I have today publish the technical expert group ' s minute , which be very important , too . my hon . friend put his finger on another really important aspect of the response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report from last year : the duty of candour , which will be hugely important in drive cultural change across public service . I be proud that we will have the second reading of the relevant Bill on Monday . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and the opening of further interim payment last week . the family of infected people in Falkirk have in the past tell I that system could be well streamline to improve the pace of delivery . I know the pace of delivery will continue to be imperative for family , so what assurance can the Minister provide that the action set out in his statement , and action take follow the consultation , will continue to reflect the feedback of infected people and affected family ? my hon . friend be entirely correct . we will have a consultation and introduce a transparency mechanism , but we will also look very seriously at the recommendation that Tyrone Urch have make . we need to ensure that the speed of payment continue to increase , but also , as my hon . Friend say , that feedback from victim be at the heart of the process . in one of the first contribution I have the privilege of make in the House , I raise the case of the Blake family . their son Stuart be infect aged six , and he die at the age of 27 , back in 2006 . I have be in regular contact with the family , and it be my privilege to show they around this place just a few week ago . I be sure the Minister and the House will understand that this have consume their family for four decade , and they be still seek reassurance about the urgency with which the Government be bring forward payment , and about whether they will be make as quickly as possible . I be really encourage by the statement . the family be eligible for the second interim payment , but I would be grateful if the Minister confirm his personal commitment to bring such case to resolution as soon as possible . my hon . friend have previously speak to I movingly about the experience of the Blake family , and it be exactly family with such experience who be at the forefront of all our mind across the House as we drive this forward . I can of course give he a personal commitment that I will continue to do all I can to quicken even far the pace of the compensation payment . I thank the Minister for the update , especially on behalf of my constituent Robert , who lose his brother age 31 , and who have be in regular contact with I on this issue . the Government previously announce that they be allocate funding to charity ; that be a recommendation of the inquiry . will the Minister confirm the step that he have be take with the Department of Health and Social Care to make sure that money get to those charity , so they be fund to process application as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend raise a really important issue , because charity have play an absolutely vital role in support and advocate for the victim of this scandal . money be already allocate in this financial year . I know that there be concern go forward . he can be assure that I will work closely with Health and Social Care Ministers on that . I be very grateful to the Minister for his update . I be pleased to report that one of my constituent , the one whom I have be most in contact with the Minister about , have finally be fully compensate , which be a huge relief to he and his family . I speak with he this morning , and he be watch now . although he welcome the improved service from IBCA , and I find it reassure that the intention be to begin pay the first claim on behalf of estate of deceased infected people by the end of this year , my constituent ask if there be anything we can do to prioritise those close to the end of their life , so that they can get the justice they deserve in life , bear in mind the valid inheritance tax concern raise by member from across the House . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent have have his compensation payment . my hon . friend speak very powerfully on his constituent ' s behalf . on his point about those near the end of their life , IBCA have publish how it prioritise claim . he and his constituent should be assure that it be exactly those who be at an advanced age , and who be deal with this matter at this moment in their life for no other reason than the state ' s failure to deal with it over past decade , who be at the forefront of my mind as I try to drive progress even fast . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this weekend , the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) suggest on a Reform UK broadcast that the country could soon be run by an " appalling Hamas - support , LGBT - support nationalist party " . as a gay man and an MP , I be proud to say I will always support LGBT right . to suggest that that support be the same as back Hamas — a vile terrorist organisation that systematically persecute LGBT people — be beyond the pale . what can we do across this House to make it clear to he and his party that support LGBT right be fundamental to our british value , and to the value of this Parliament ? I thank the hon . gentleman for notice of his point of order , and his assurance that the Member concern have be notify . indicate assent . I can see the hon . Gentleman nod . what member say outside the Chamber be not a matter for the Chair , but he have most definitely put his point on the record . he have most likely read the recent report from the Speaker ' s Conference , which once again talk about member use moderate political language . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in July , a Treasury Minister agree to meet I about the closure of the Lending Standards Board ahead of the launch of the ethnicity code . this meeting be schedule to take place in September , but be cancel due to the Government reshuffle . despite an initial indication that this meeting would be reschedule , I have have no recent response to request from my office for a date and a time . give that the Lending Standards Board be due to close tomorrow , I wish to ask for your advice about what further step I can take to ask the Government to engage with I on the ethnicity code . I thank the hon . Lady for notice of her point of order , and her assurance that she have notify the Minister . while this be not a matter for the Chair , I be sure those on the Treasury Bench — I be seek to make eye contact — have hear and note her frustration . Israel - Palestine conflict : Government Response Foreign Affairs Committee Select Committee statement Emily Thornberry will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement , and these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I must confess that , in the 20 year I have be in Parliament , I have never do one of these before ; it be all entirely new to I . if I be do anything wrong , please , Madam Deputy Speaker — and I be sure you will — put I back on the straight and narrow . the situation in Palestine be a humanitarian catastrophe , an injustice and great unfinished business . it have also be a huge diplomatic challenge for our country and indeed for the rest of the world . we as a country believe that we have some responsibility to try to find a way through — and rightly so , give our history in the region and the potential assistance that we can give . for a long time , our policy on Israel and Palestine have be dictate by be close to the Americans , believe that they be the one with the influence , but the Americans , until recently , be not really do anything . in any event , the Israelis be certainly not listen to the Americans , and for sure they be not listen to we . the international community , I think , just stand and watch as hope for a two - state solution run into the sand . meanwhile , our long - stand alliance with country such as the arab country be blemish by our continual refusal to recognise Palestine , so while we have willingness , we be not as influential as we should or could be . in the view of our Committee , Britain need to have a strong voice , and there be more that we could do . in the word of the former Member for North East Bedfordshire , the former Middle East Minister , we tend to do " too little , too late " . Most of we think that it be beyond time to recognise a palestinian state . it be of immense importance as an expression of intent and good will , and to help reset the important relationship in the region . I be really pleased that , four day after our report be publish , the Government commit to recognise a palestinian state . I accept that it be not just our report that persuade they . it be also the circumstance of the France - Saudi Arabia conference , and the campaigning of a great many people , not least member of this House , particularly the Chair of the International Development Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . our report also recommend that humanitarian aid must immediately flow in under the auspex of the UN , and call for the immediate dismantling of the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . I be glad that we have see the back of that organisation — good riddance — but I be keen to hear more from the Government about their contribution to the UN 60 - day plan to deliver vital food , aid and sanitation . the Committee ' s report be not just about Gaza . we all agree that everything have to be do to protect the west bank from an increasingly violent and organised settler movement with representation at the high level of the israeli Government . we go on a visit , and see evidence of settler think they could act with impunity . we also meet organisation establish to monitor the settlement that be be undermine by israeli legislation take funding away from non - governmental organisation . we urge the Government to prepare a comprehensive ban on the import of settlement good , because when we say that settlement be illegal , we must mean it , and we must follow through . we also call for the Government to immediately evacuate injure child for medical treatment in the UK , and I be pleased that they immediately commit to do so . we call for the Government to participate in peacebuilding , and to kick - start negotiation for a long - term two - state solution . they tell we that they have play a full part in the France - Saudi Arabia conference , but the question be : what be happen now , and how be we go to keep move forward ? we have to keep move forward . many of we have be ask to express a conclusion on breach of international law , from genocide downward . the Government have consistently maintain the position that they be not able to make a determination — first because it be not for they but for a court , and secondly because we need to see the evidence . I have to say , it look like a genocide to I , but I be not a court . that be why we need to play a role in collect evidence for the future legal reckoning that must come . I be really disappointed — more than that , I be genuinely surprised — that the Government do not agree to this in their response to our report . one of the thing that the Labour Government pride themselves on , which I be proud of too , be their commitment to uphold international law , no matter how difficult it be . I really do not understand why they have take that view . our report be the sum of a huge amount of work by member of the Committee and Committee staff , for which I be hugely grateful . we always know that as soon as it be publish it would go out of date . maybe it have go out of date in a good way ; at least there be some semblance of a ceasefire now and the hostage have be release , though it be very difficult to say all that give the event of this week . what remain consistent be the approach that we believe the Government should take : to be consistent and clear ; to act as a convenor , a sensible friend and a force for good ; to work hard ; to refuse to look away ; and to take seriously our responsibility in the region . peace will come . it be a question of when and how , and whether Britain will be at the forefront of craft it . we believe that Britain should be . I congratulate the right hon . Lady on her Committee ' s report . in response to the seventh recommendation about a palestinian state , the Government state : " our message to the terrorist of Hamas be unchanged and unequivocal . they must immediately release all the hostage , sign up to a ceasefire , disarm and accept that they will play no part in the government of Gaza . " do the Foreign Affairs Committee give consideration to what should be do if Hamas refuse to disarm and give way to , for example , the Palestinian Authority ? at the moment we find ourselves in a vacuum where there be no plan for what be to happen to the strip now . in a lawless situation , it be extremely challenging . that be why we have to keep move forward . the ceasefire be not the answer but only the first step . there be some work be do , but I would like to be reassure that we be play a central role in that . I believe that we could be and we should be . I thank the Chair of the Committee for her statement and her recognition of the Committee ' s member . on recommendation 6 on the reconstruction of Gaza , Gaza be still the most dangerous place in the world to be a child . over 64 , 000 child be report to have be kill or injure , and nearly the same number have lose a parent . unicef , which be headquarter in my constituency , have raise urgent concern about the devastating and long - term consequence that child be face , include the trauma of mass displacement . do my right hon . friend agree that the long road to recovery must include specialist care for child , so many of whom have witness unimaginable horror and whose survival , safety and dignity have be imperille by war and humanitarian crisis for over two year ? I thank my hon . friend for all her work on this report ; her contribution have be so important . she be right : what we be try to do when find peace be to bring hope and a future , not just for palestinian child but for israeli child too , so that they can live in peace together and have a decent future . I be grateful to the Chair of the Committee for her statement . in this place , we use the phrase " two - state solution " very readily and often , so much so that it become a clich é . our visit as a Committee to the Knesset reveal just how limited support for a two - state solution be there . I be pleased that the Government announce their intention to recognise a palestinian state on 29 July , just four day after the Committee publish its report , but I draw the House ' s attention to the September two - state solution conference convene by France and Saudi Arabia . in respond to the Committee ' s report , the Government say that they play a full part in that conference and do so by co - chair the work group on humanitarian action and reconstruction . do the right hon . member share my view that the UK ' s contribution need to go beyond humanitarian action and that the UK must continue its engagement on how we can make a two - state solution a reality ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution to the report and all his work . it have be a great deal of work , and he certainly play his part it in , so I thank he . yes , Britain can do so much . we have experience in the region , and we have really good friend . we also have the experience of Northern Ireland . People say there be no chance of get peace and a long - term solution in Northern Ireland , until suddenly there it be . we need to bring a hopeful and positive attitude to this . I believe there be an important contribution that we can make . I welcome the statement of the Chair of the Committee . I think all of we on the Committee be relieve that since our report be publish , we have now reach a ceasefire . the UN have be able to re - enter Gaza and the situation it have see on the ground be devastating . the UN ' s humanitarian chief describe it as like go through the ruin of Hiroshima . while it be welcome that the UN be able to restart its humanitarian delivery , this be only a first step towards the last peace that be need . do the Chair agree that the UK must play its part , with international partner , on security and governance as we move towards a two - state - solution ? we need to enable Palestinians to rebuild the place where they live in a way that be fair for they . my hon . friend be another Member of the Committee who work very hard on this report . his focus and commitment really make a difference to the report , so I thank he for that . we on the Committee be concerned about the funding and assistance that can be give for governance , defend democracy and create state , not just in Gaza but in other country . we be very concerned about the budget and exactly how much will be available to do the vital work that Britain be really good at . we do not want to withdraw from the field . I thank the Chair for her Committee ' s report . she mention the possible determination of genocide and say that , in her personal view , that be what have take place . of course , a UN report have reach that conclusion as well . I be fairly certain that that should place certain obligation on the UK , so will the Committee commit to investigate exactly what the UK ' s obligation be to any kind of international accountability process ? just as I do not think Britain as a country can look away from what be happen , I do not think our Committee can look away either . we have ask the Government for their response to that particular court case , and we be still await a proper response . there may well be some obligation that be attach to it , and we do think that it have take too long for the Government to respond . I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Committee itself for the report , which I think be very helpful and insightful . I share the concern that the Chair outline about the gathering of evidence . I want to ask about medium access into the Gaza strip . be that an area that the Committee could look at in future , and do the Chair have a view on how it might help or hinder evidence gathering ? in our report we call for the medium to have free and full access to Gaza . the question have to be , " what have people get to hide ? " not allow the medium in be a breach of establish norm . the medium be allow in no matter how difficult the circumstance . it be for the medium to decide whether or not it should take the risk of go into a particular area , but the world do need to know what happen . there have to be some form of accountability . there have be limit accountability but nothing like the accountability there ought to have be have there be free access for the medium . I thank the Chair and the Committee very much for their report , and I think what they be say be positive . the United States of America , the United Kingdom , the EU and many arab state have all push for peace . they state collectively that Hamas can not have any part in the future of Palestine , that Hamas be the obstacle , and that Hamas must be disarm and can never ever be allow to exist . for a last peace to mean something , Hamas have to go . do the right hon . Lady agree with that ? of course I agree with that , and I respect the experience the hon . Gentleman have in relation to Northern Ireland . disarm terrorist and be able to move on be of crucial importance . I congratulate the Committee on this important report , and I thank the Chair for explain it and answer question in the Chamber today . there have be a lot of discussion already , even in this short interchange , about gather evidence . the right hon . Lady have highlight the position of the Government on this , but there be international body that need to gather evidence , and I reflect the point early that even journalist be not allow in . what can she tell we about other evidence that be be gather by international organisation , and what more do she think the international community , not just individual government , should do ? it be a very good question . of course , the problem be that there be still not free access for anyone go in . part of the concern , obviously , be that there be an attempt to undermine international jurist and the international court by not just Israel but some of its ally . we need to ensure that we stand by the rule of law and the international court . there need to be a reckoning on both side . there have be , on the face of it , the most terrible crime commit and we need to ensure that people be hold to account . we must not be afraid ; we must do that . Backbench Business Property Service charge [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on 17 June , on Property Management Companies , HC 980 ; correspondence between the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee and FirstPort UK , on property management company , date 30 September , 21 August , 11 July and 1 July , report to the House on 14 October , 9 September and 1 July . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider property service charge . it be a privilege to bring this important debate to the House today . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . I remember vividly the day , over 20 year ago now , when I pick up the key to my first flat in south - east London . it take time to get to a position where my salary be sufficient to secure a mortgage and to save up the deposit , but I manage to do it . I spend the first few week on a mattress on the floor while I save for a bed , but it be the most amazing feeling in the world to own my own home . I be fortunate enough to have purchase the freehold , so I never have to face pay service charge that I could not afford and I never have to rely on a third - party management company to make essential repair . when the time be right for I to move on , my flat be easy to sell . other have not be so lucky . they have buy leasehold on a private estate , and with that come a life sentence . today , I want to give a voice to those people on the hook for ever - increase service charge , trap in home they can not afford but can not sell either , who think they be buy their dream home when actually it be the start of a nightmare . make no mistake — this be no exaggeration on my part — people ' s life have be and be be ruin by excessive service charge . let I start , Madam Deputy Speaker , by tell you about Park 25 , a housing estate in Redhill . it be build 18 year ago and have 500 home , a mixture of house and flat . it be a contemporary and stunning site , with the type of home that people want to live in . it be particularly attractive to key worker , such as doctor and nurse , due to its proximity to East Surrey hospital . like many new estate , it be build by private developer with no arrangement make for the local authority to adopt the communal land after completion , so FirstPort be appoint as the property manager to maintain the estate . this mean that resident of Park 25 pay an expensive service charge to FirstPort , on top of their mortgage and on top of their council tax , for pretty basic service . those service charge be go up significantly every year , drive some homeowner to the absolute brink . I first become aware of the issue when I meet Louise , a single mum , at my first ever surgery last year — a meeting I will never forget . she tell I how she have purchase a one - bedroom flat on Park 25 when they be first build , but the service charge quickly increase , become unaffordable for she , in part due to the expensive biomass communal heating system . in desperation she try to sell , but three time over she lose her buyer . she now let out the flat and have move back in with her family , unable to access the equity that would allow she to buy somewhere else . she be trap , not able to move on with her life . then there be Alfie , who purchase a two - bedroom flat in 2018 . he be " thrill to get on the property ladder at the age of 23 , think it be a valuable investment . " his first service charge payment be just under £ 2 , 200 per annum . six year later , it be over £ 3 , 600 — a 70 % increase . for that , he say " they basically cut the grass and insure the building " . when heating be include it get even bad , due to the biomass system . the first amount become £ 3 , 400 , go up to a whopping £ 8 , 000 per annum — a 135 % increase . again , Madam Deputy Speaker , I remind you that he be pay council tax and a mortgage on top . Alfie do consider challenge the service fee at a tribunal , but he be advise by the Leasehold Advisory Service that for any chance of success he would need to appoint a surveyor to review the service charge . however , to do that there need to be a recognise tenant ' association , and to set that up , over 50 % of leaseholder need to agree . in the case of Park 25 , he quickly find that to be an impossible task as many rent out their property and so be not easily trace . with that door close to he , he try to sell his property for over two year — even for £ 50 , 000 less than he buy it for just to cover the mortgage . there be lot of interest , but every time the potential purchaser find out about the service charge , they withdraw . Alfie say : " understandably , nobody want to buy it . the ' we buy any property ' company win ' t touch it and even the auction site which run a ' no sale no fee ' policy don ' t want to take it on " . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this important debate — the fact that so many member be present be an indication of its importance . in my constituency I have see an increase in the number of people who buy their house or flat many year ago and be now face difficulty with the level of charge , unexpected cost increase , and poor communication and service quality . do she agree that a service charge can never be see as a blank cheque for the owner , and that what those charge be spend on must be itemise and make clear ? I completely agree . to add insult to injury , Alfie tell I that FirstPort charge an £ 80 administration fee if payment be not make within 30 day of demand . in 2023 he receive his fee on Christmas day while in discussion about a payment plan to settle outstanding fee . FirstPort refuse to remove the charge despite his financial struggle . Alfie have now leave the UK and be rent his flat out at a loss , because that be the only option available to he . the hon . Lady highlight the problem of resident be charge late payment fee . I have a number of constituent who never receive an original letter demand payment , but who be then charge late payment fee despite not know a payment be due . do she agree with I that the lack of communication be another critical issue that we must address ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point . I completely agree that be very much an issue , as I have hear that too . Alfie and Louise , sadly , be not alone . so many other people on Park 25 find themselves in the same situation : trap , unable to sell and move on with their life , and wish they have never buy the property in the first place . Sam , another resident , say that " it ' s not an exaggeration to say this be ruin people ' s life " . he have a wife and child and want to have another , but he can not move to a big property as he can not sell this one . it be literally stop they grow their family . he even try sell his flat for £ 80 , 000 less than the valuation , and he still could not sell it due to the service charge . this be devastating for they as a family . as a constituency MP , I have have some appalling experience with FirstPort , at Oak Lodge in Hockley and at King Georges Court in Rayleigh . the latter be a four - storey McCarthy Stone development that it manage , where the lift be out of action for almost a year . be not the fundamental problem with FirstPort that it be ultimately own by several offshore venture capital company that be very aggressive in seek revenue from their tenant , but do not seem very willing to provide a decent quality of service in return ? I thank my right hon . friend for provide that very useful context . I will come on to that in my speech . one of the challenge we have be that property service company be seek to make a profit , yet they be unregulated and free to do as they will . it be for this place to get a handle on that . I hope that today we can think constructively about potential solution to address the problem , the scale of which , across the House , we all recognise . we do not want our constituent to continue to face it . I be afraid to say that FirstPort be not cover itself in glory . I have now hear hundred of time over about its lack of responsiveness , lack of transparency on cost and inadequate explanation of service charge increase . resident have tell I about be bill for service they have never receive , like window cleaning , with no avenue to formally challenge and remediate . any opportunity to charge a resident be use to the full . these thing be all symptomatic of an industry that prioritise extract maximum value from leaseholder , regardless of the human cost . there be no incentive for property service company to act any differently . it be incredibly hard for leaseholder to remove they , so the company have free rein to do pretty much what they like . this fundamental power imbalance must be address , and it must be make easy for leaseholder to take their business elsewhere . the Park 25 service charge for the year end 30 April 2026 be estimate to be just under £ 1 . 9 million — 13 % high than last year ' s estimate . the increase in cost be primarily to cover the future replacement of playground equipment , street lighting , road repair and other infrastructure . Park 25 resident be also pay council tax for exactly those type of thing outside the estate . out of the £ 1 . 9 million service charge , FirstPort keep around £ 142 , 000 in fee , which work out at just under 8 % of the total service charge . how easy be it for I to find that £ 142 , 000 figure in FirstPort ' s cost breakdown ? not very — I have to total up number across many page of cost , as there be no nice , neat summary at the front show the total amount . that 8 % may or may not be out of kilter with industry — I find it difficult when research to confirm one way or another , which be an issue in itself . the key point to recognise here , though , be that there be absolutely no incentive or requirement for FirstPort to keep the cost base low . in fact , the more money it spend on maintain the estate and the more people it employ to deliver service , the small the percentage proportion its management fee appear to be — a perverse incentive indeed . it would be very easy for I to berate property service company throughout my speech , and I suspect that other will take up that mantle during the debate . however , we must recognise that it be the current system that allow the company to operate in this way . south Derbyshire district council have take the bold and rather commendable decision to ban any new property management fee , and to backdate that to January 2025 . however , that do not help those who already have home they buy before 2025 . do the hon . Lady agree that we should press our Government to legislate to help those who be tie into these arrangement to come out of they ? I thank the hon . member for that point . an important debate for we to have today be about what we do go forward , both for those who have not yet buy a leasehold and to help our constituent who be in this situation right now . I be really interested to hear everyone ' s view on that . these company be a symptom of the problem ; they be opportunist make money from an inequitable system . it be this House that must take responsibility for address the intrinsic unfairness and urgently make the change need to unshackle leaseholder . I hope that we will today hear hon . member ' view on the solution , not just the issue . we can not keep build new housing estate under this same model , perpetuate the problem . this be increasingly important in the light of the Government ' s ambitious plan to build 1 . 5 million new home over the next few year . I have to say , if nothing have change when the time come for my child to purchase a property , I will be strongly advise they not to purchase a leasehold on a private estate . to start we off , I will give the House my view . I think make it easy for leaseholder to change property service company be important , as be well regulation and high standard , but that will not fundamentally transform the situation . what be need — what be critical — be a change to the default model , so that homeowner be not pay both the council and a private company for the exact same service . one sensible and equitable option would be that local authority be oblige to adopt communal land and infrastructure on completion of new estate in all but the most exceptional case . for that to work in practice , developer would need to be oblige to ensure that the infrastructure meet the council ' s standard before transfer . that way , owner of leasehold property would be put on an equal footing with everyone else , pay for communal service once through their council tax . that would certainly deal with future issue . but what about those who , like our constituent , be already trap ? it may be that something more radical be need , such as a mandatory direction to all local authority to adopt communal land where request by exist estate . it would be difficult , I know , in this current financial environment and with the likely variability of estate quality , but it would certainly address much of the issue and allow my constituent to sell their property and move on with their life . I know that this Government be also keen to move forwards and towards commonhold arrangement , especially for flat , which essentially put management of the estate in the hand of leaseholder themselves . there be some benefit to commonhold over the current model , but it be not the silver bullet that be need and bring its own set of problem . anyone who , like I , have be involve in a resident ' association or similar organisation — or , indeed , who simply understand human nature — will know that most people do not want to pay out for significant work , so the work will not get do , which in time will result in crumble road , fail roof and fall home value . again , it will become difficult for resident to sell their property . it be just another version of the same trap , and one that pit neighbour against each other . I urge the Government to think again on plan to make commonhold the default tenure for new build flat . the hon . Lady be make some excellent point . I really think it be the radical solution that we need to consider . I should probably declare an interest as a director of a right - to - manage company — we get so feed up with the freeholder fail to manage our building properly that we take back control . however , as she point out , that be not the end of the story , and we still need to get a lot of people to agree on a lot of thing , and build up the reserve fund be particularly difficult . I encourage the hon . Lady to keep come up with idea that be bold than the one that be out there at the moment , because it be a sticky problem to fix . I thank the hon . member for his encouragement and I will keep come up with radical idea . before I finish , I want to raise the issue of education and information provision to homebuyer . if most people know the current problem with leasehold arrangement , they would not buy they — or they certainly would not pay as much for they . I be sure that conveyancer include warning and information when manage the sale and purchase process , but it be not cut through . People be sleepwalk into purchase with little or no understanding of the uncapped service charge they be sign up to , and we must do more to ensure that people be adequately advise and inform before sign on the dotted line . I would be most grateful if the Minister could today give his view on a few thing . how can we good address the current power imbalance between leaseholder and property service company ? what role do he see an industry regulator play in drive up standard ? what default tenure model should be use for future housing estate to reduce the incidence of these issue in the first place ? I would also appreciate his view on my suggestion to move to a mandatory adoption model after development completion . rise — order . all back Benchers be now on a six - minute speaking limit . I call Justin Madders . I congratulate the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on her excellent speech and on secure the debate . I state for the record that I be a patron of the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership , which do such good work in advise leaseholder . it be eight year ago that I stand on the Opposition side of the Chamber and describe the use of leasehold in new development as the payment protection insurance of the house building industry . I be pleased to say that the previous Government eventually start to tackle that , and the current Government will hopefully complete that work soon so that we can finally condemn leasehold to the history book . it be four year ago that I stand on the Opposition side of the Chamber and warn that estate management fee could replacement leasehold as the new PPI of the house building industry — or , as the indomitable woman of the National Leasehold Campaign term it , " fleecehold . " now that have come to pass ; it seem that just about every new development build in this country adopt the same exploitative model , and the public be rightly ask what we be go to do about it . the Minister have amass great expertise in this area , and I know he be keen to crack on with reform . there be a number of legal case ongoing . I be pleased to see that the bogus argument about human right have be dispatch by the High Court . however , there be a number of other where well - resource freeholder be try to preserve the status quo , and not every court be as wise as the High Court be in the human right case . the Court of Appeal recently find in the Romney House case that where a tenant go to the first - tier tribunal to challenge a service charge , the tribunal need only to consider whether the process be reasonable , and not whether the charge themselves be reasonable . that be absurd , and have have the effect of require those leaseholder to pay for the refurbishment of a gym that they do not actually own . it be freeholder with their seemingly limitless resource that can challenge and delay action by leaseholder to preserve their rotten system at every turn , so the soon we implement the leasehold Act in full the well . there be a clear warning here as to why we must crack on with tackle estate management fee more broadly . I look forward to the Government ' s response to the consultation . when it come to stop any more estate be build in this way , and we must end this practice as a matter of urgency , I suggest , as the hon . Member do , that it will actually be much easy to do this than it have be for end leasehold . I urge the Minister to send a clear instruction to local authority that estate management arrangement will no long be accept in planning application , and to legislate to ban they on any new development if necessary . the long we put off fix that , the long it will take to fix this mess . I fear the Minister will be tell that such a move would have an impact on the ambitious house building plan that we rightly have and would damage the housing market more generally , but be we not face with the same argument when we try to abolish leasehold ? after all , these developer do not have to pay a community sum to the local authority — indeed , they have an additional lucrative income stream — but despite those new income source , it do not seem to have have any impact on the price they charge for people to buy their home in the first place . the reality be that an estate management company be nothing more than a calculation on a balance sheet . the developer have zero interest in keep the verge neat and tidy after they have go . if they can make the bottom line look more attractive by create the management company , they will , and they keep get away with it because we let they . of course , we must act to protect those already catch in this trap . it be also clear , as we have hear , that many people be not aware of the implication of an estate management company or how much it will cost they when they buy their home . often , first - time buyer be excite by the prospect of own a new home , and they place their trust in the system — the lender , the developer , the lawyer — and the echo of the leasehold scandal with this be loud . glitzy sale staff paint a very different picture . they never set out the reality that , in addition to the significant commitment people be make when they buy a home , they be also agree to pay an unspecified sum to often unspecified recipient for as long as they stay in that home . the mis - selling and failure to properly advise have all the hallmark of the leasehold scandal . we should not be surprise by that because the same actor be involve in that industry as be involve in these rip - off . an example of some of the novel way that this financial trap can be describe by sale staff come to my attention when constituent on a recently build estate all have the common explanation give to they that this service charge be for a storm drain , but that it would be pay off in a few year so they do not need to worry about it . well , they be still pay it 15 year later . they be not even sure if there be a storm drain and , even if there be , who be actually responsible for it , and yet the invoice and threaten letter still come . we also recently meet interested party on another new development where we be try to clarify who be responsible for maintain what and who they be accountable to . because the estate have be develop over several year by different developer , about 10 different organisation be represent at that meeting . it be little wonder that we struggle for transparency with so many people involve . the fundamental question from the homeowner be : why be we pay twice for the maintenance of open space , once through a management fee and once through council tax ? we should start from the basic principle that the local council should be do all the work and that estate management company be an unnecessary tax on homeowner . how long will it be before we see a concerted campaign for people to get reduction on their council tax on the basis that they be be tax twice ? in the wrong hand , that sort of campaign could pit community against one another . let we not forget that buy a home be the big single purchase people will ever make . we need far great accountability for what developer say and what they build . housing be of course a critical part of our infrastructure and a fundamental part of a person ' s life , but it have be show time and again that we can not rely on the market alone to deliver that in a responsible way . let we get control over these company , empower homeowner and legislate if necessary so that this rotten , avaricious model become history , just like leasehold eventually will . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on secure this debate in the House . early this year , I write to hundred of resident across the Weald of Kent to get a well understanding of how property management company operate across our home . what I discover be very worrying and , as many member here will recognise , it be an all too common story . to date , I have hear from nearly 100 people across 11 estate all complain about their property management company FirstPort . the pattern be as depressing as it be predictable : steep and unexplained increase in service charge , slow and inadequate response to maintenance issue , and a serious lack of accountability and transparency . let I share a few example . constituent in Yalding and Headcorn have tell I that they face a 70 % and a 40 % rise in their management fee respectively . those be not minor uplift , and nobody can tell they clearly what they be pay for . I understand that cost be rise not least for thing like insurance , but at the very least , hike like that should be clearly explain . constituent in Marden and Kingsnorth have document case where no maintenance at all be carry out for month , despite repeat chasing — grass not cut , light not fix and rubbish not clear — and yet the bill keep come . finally , constituent in Tenterden and Coxheath have tell I that it be begin to affect the value of their home , as my hon . Friend mention . some have say that their property be become unsellable because buyer will not take on the liability of these charge and this management . in one case , two sister be try to sell their late father ' s flat . he buy it for £ 150 , 000 and they now can not even sell it at £ 60 , 000 . at auction , the price have fall below £ 20 , 000 . they tell I that local estate agent refuse to list it because of the fee associate with manage the property . much of this be part of a wide pattern . many resident on these estate pay twice for what most people would regard as the same basic service . they pay full council tax to their local authority , as everyone do , but on a grow number of estate , the council have not take over the road , street lighting or green space and therefore do not maintain they . to that point about council not have yet adopt such thing as the road or pavement , I have the example of Pebble Beach in Seaton where I represent , where resident have be charge fee and even threaten with legal action before the estate have be hand from the developer to the property management company . have she come across that , too ? I be afraid so , and fairly regularly in fact . the legal action that the hon . member mention be important to reflect on because it can in some case be deeply distress and seem very aggressive for people just try to get what they have already pay for , which in some case do not even exist yet . resident be require to pay a second set of charge on top of the council tax to a private management company , such as FirstPort . they pay council tax for street lighting and then they pay a private company for street lighting . they pay council tax for maintain the verge , and then they pay again for someone to cut the grass — except of course in many case the grass be not cut . in these situation , the homeowner have almost no practical leverage . the council say , " it be private land " ; the management company say , " you be contractually oblige to pay we anyway " ; and the person who live there , who can not simply switch provider and who must disclose the charge when they come to sell , be leave with little ability to challenge poor value . People be pay more and get less . there be a continue lack of transparency , with resident routinely deny a proper breakdown of charge , not give meaningful answer and , in some case , not even give the dignity of a reply . FirstPort be one of many property management company that have be allow , in some respect , to conduct themselves with impunity , largely because local resident have almost no consumer power or transparency . I have meet representative of FirstPort , and they assure I that the company be change and improve . I very much hope that this be true . but , in case that do not happen , the last Government take important step to address this through the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . the purpose of the Act be to give resident clear information about what they be be charge and why ; to widen access to redress when something go wrong , which be crucial ; and to ensure that dispute with management company can be resolve fairly . but resident will not see those benefit until all the secondary legislation be bring into force , guidance be publish and management company be give a clear expectation that they will need to comply . I caution the Government against assume that the answer might be to layer on fresh regulation or to draft a new Bill . I encourage the Government to accelerate the implementation of those element of the Act . my constituent do not want to wait , say , another year to see itemised , comprehensible service charge bill and prompt access to redress . they accept that the streetlight must be maintain , the gutter clear and insurance buy — they know all of that cost money — but what they will not accept , and nor should they , be pay more for less with no answer and no accountability . I welcome this important debate and thank the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) very much on behalf of the many constituent who come to my surgery , who write to I , and who I meet when I be out and about in the many development across Putney , Southfields , Roehampton and Wandsworth town . I speak today on behalf not just of my constituent , but of leaseholder across the country who feel that they be be let down by the broken system — one that continue to allow unfair and sharply rise service charge , poor communication , and substandard service to persist unchecked . the limited right to challenge such change leave people feel as if they be fight the battle on their own . as we know from the number of Members present and from many other meeting , people across the country face these issue , so there be something wrong not just with the individual manage agency that we be all think of , but with the system itself . the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) mention regulation . do we need more layer of it ? we must also consider the check and balance in the system . ask people to go to the first - tier tribunal as a last resort be so daunting and cumbersome that it be not a proper check on the system . I welcome the Government ' s decisive action to tackle long - stand injustice in leasehold and estate management . I thank the Minister for all his work on that , include the incoming change . this debate be full of hope about those change make a difference . ahead of the closure of the Government ' s recent consultation on strengthen leaseholder protection , I conduct a service charge consultation in my constituency , where it be a big issue in so many development . the result , which I have submit to the Government , be deeply troubling . More than 200 constituent respond to my consultation , and I think they speak for hundred more . almost 90 % of respondent report significant increase in their service charge . even more — 96 % — say that they feel those increase be unjustified . that come down not only to poor communication , but to the fact that many of those service charge do seem to be unjustified . those be not isolate case , as we be hear in the debate . in 2024 , service charge rise by 11 % on average — well above the 2 . 5 % rate of inflation — and , in my constituency , they average £ 2 , 300 per year . I see countless example of eye - watering hike . one constituent report that their annual service charge have increase from £ 1 , 600 to £ 6 , 660 per year , for example , while another tell I they be send a large additional bill right before Christmas as their manage agent claw back more money after an " error " in its accounting . that often happen during year in which the amount have already rise a lot , before rise more still because of extra charge and service provide — or not provide , as many constituent see it . too many leaseholder be ignore by manage agent and charge for service that be sub - standard or not deliver at all , include clean service that show no sign of leave the building clean , paint in communal area that do not need to be paint or for which the charge should be low , and , in one case , garden service for garden that do not exist . one of the most shocking example in my consultation be a large development in my constituency . leaseholder report a revolving door of housing manager who be inexperienced , unqualified , overstretched and unfamiliar with the building ' s history . the manage agent present account that simply do not add up . contractor be pay without check , fault go un - penalise and resident be leave to clean up the mess time and again . the manage agent have ignore numerous industry expert who have state that important plumbing work need to be carry out . some have say that the building be in serious danger of complete structural failure . basic service be not carry out , yet leaseholder continue to foot the bill . the manage agent be suppose to paint the exterior at least every 10 year , but nothing happen . it be the same old story again and again . six manage agent be name many time in my consultation . I will not name they here , because that would be damaging for the people who live in those development . clearly , there be some good manage agent and landlord , but there be also some very bad one , and those be the one that we need a new Bill to deal with . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 contain proposal for great transparency through standardised account , mandatory reserve fund and easy route to challenge unreasonable service charge rise , and manage agent will face mandatory qualification and enforce membership of professional body . those measure be all welcome . the previous Conservative Government have 14 year to act on these matter but pass leasehold reform law only in the die day of the last Parliament , so their measure be rush , poorly draft and fail to ban new leasehold home . I be very glad that this debate offer we the chance to talk about go far on industry regulation and to welcome the commonhold Bill . leaseholder in my constituency and across the country have wait long enough . the system be break , the injustice be real , and the need for reform be urgent . I call David Reed . many congratulation on baby Reuben ! thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be nice to have his name on the record . I be very grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for bring the topic to the House ' s attention . in my constituency , this be rapidly become one of the most frequently raise issue . the big problem be that people who have work hard , save responsibly and buy a home in good faith find themselves trap in a system that be opaque , unaccountable , and , in the bad case , exploitative . like other member , since be elect I have be inundate with complaint about one company in particular . we all know its name : FirstPort . it be , by some distance , the most problematic housing management company operate in my constituency . my office be deal with almost 40 open case relate to development that it manage . the story be depressingly consistent : resident describe unexplained charge , unclear billing and long delay in resolve the simple issue — we have hear many such example today . they send long chain of unanswered email . they attend my surgery exhaust and frustrated . when my team contact FirstPort on resident ' behalf , we often wait an unacceptable length of time for a reply , and progress — if it come at all — be slow . early this year , I and other member of this House meet FirstPort ' s manage director . I hope , Madam Deputy Speaker , that you see I as a chill - out kind of guy , but I leave that meeting with my blood boiling , and other Members have a similar experience . we ask straight - forward question but receive vague answer , rehearse corporate language and no clear commitment to improve customer service . a group of MPs will meet FirstPort again soon , and I hope that the company have set to work in earnest . on reflection , what anger I most be that many of the people catch up in these issue be elderly . they feel intimidate by the complexity of the system . they be pass from pillar to post , ignore when they raise legitimate concern , and make to feel like an inconvenience simply for ask what their money be be spend on . however , when FirstPort want payment — this be something that it be very good at — its communication become clear and very persistent . when resident in several development try to move away from FirstPort , essential financial document , include sink fund balance and reconciliation statement , be withhold . in some case , large sum of resident ' money be retain for month , prevent new management company from plan maintenance or accounting properly . in my constituency , local resident director Karen Wheeler and David Buller — fierce campaigner — have document delay fund transfer , miss paperwork and opaque accounting . Karen eventually give up try to reconcile the final balance because the spreadsheet be , in her word , " unfathomable " . for Karen ' s development , the cost be about £ 500 — quite a significant sum for many elderly resident — but , as my hon . friend the Member for Reigate rightly say , the real issue here be the power imbalance . resident have no transparency , no clarity and no meaningful route to resolution , despite FirstPort ' s own code of conduct , which promise transparency , value for money and excellent customer service . I think we can all agree that that do not stack up . this be neither an isolated concern nor a partisan one . former Ministers have highlight FirstPort and other company be consistently associate with high charge and poor service . the BBC have report homeowner be bill for thing such as " terrorism insurance " , without any context , while basic ground maintenance be not complete . More than 30 mp have write jointly to FirstPort demand action . we all know that the problem be structural . far too many homeowner be lock into contract they never choose , be force to pay service charge for poorly maintain communal area , and have no ability to change provider when the service fail . as we have hear , many homeowner on private estate — the so - call " fleecehold " estate — be effectively pay twice : once through council tax , and once through service charge . leaseholder try to sell their home frequently face long delay and eye - water administration fee , and what should be a proud milestone — own or sell a home — become a source of stress and financial burden . we have hear that legal protection exist , but they be not enough . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 will bring mandatory transparency — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have one minute leave and I will make my final point . the Act aim to bring mandatory transparency , through standardised billing , great right to challenge charge , and easy route to take over management , but those reform be not yet implement . why be that ? I hope that the Minister , in his closing remark , will set out a course for when those measure will be implement , and will say what new legislation will be bring in to ensure that people be protect . I finish on a point on which I think we all agree : resident who be on these scheme do not need more consultation ; they need action , and this Parliament must deliver . order . it be up to member if they wish to take an intervention . if they do , they have an extra minute on their speak time . I often hear the same story across Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme about bill that jump without warning , charge that people can not control , invoice that be hard to decipher and work that arrive late or not at all . if we pay for service , we should know what we be pay for , the standard we can expect , and how to put thing right when they go wrong . there have be some progress on what have be coin " fleecehold " , and on the right of homeowner . I welcome step to protect leaseholder from unjustified service charge and to raise standard in manage the agent sector , but many people still feel powerless when a bill land . Change must bite on the ground . we have hear that many household pay estate rent charge on top of council tax , and in the bad case there be excessive or unexplained fee , charge for service that would normally be provide by local authority , arbitrary administration cost and fee impose during a sale . too many discover too late that road , verge and play area be not adopt . no family should be ambush by a large one - off bill for work that they could not foresee . clear pre - sell disclosure and sensible reserve planning be essential . there be good actor . resident - lead management company , responsible freeholder and professional agent already publish clear breakdown and engage on work early . they should feel back by a system that raise the floor and reward good practice . I therefore ask the Minister today for four thing . first , will the Government promptly bring forward secondary legislation ? we need to define what insurance fee be permit , end hide commission and require standardised , transparent statement , so resident can see where every single pound go . secondly , will they set professional standard for manage agent ? we need mandatory qualification and a robust code of practice that will lift the quality bar and give resident confidence that estate be run properly . thirdly , will they fix the major work regime ? we need clear pre - sale information to be provide , early engagement on big project to be require , sensible reserve to be plan , and safeguard put in place , so that household be not hit by avoidable spike . fourthly , will the Government make redress fast and affordable ? we need to resource the first - tier tribunal , and publish simple guidance , so that resident can challenge unreasonable cost without need deep pocket . I be sure that a small number of timely ruling will reset behaviour across entire development . my constituent in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme be not ask for special treatment . they be just ask for fairness — bill that be clear , charge that be reasonable , and service deliver as promise . I have set up a number of street surgery in the area from which I get the most comment on this matter . that way , I can hear constituent ' voice and directly feed back what they have say to the Minister and the Department as we move forward with the legislation . with prompt secondary legislation , tight definition on insurance , professional standard for agent and an accessible tribunal system , we can turn a confusing and stressful system into one that treat resident with respect and provide peace of mind . the hon . member talk about secondary legislation when suggest what should happen next . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act provide protection for leaseholder on private manage estate ; it enable they to go to a tribunal to challenge management charge . do he think that that ought to exist for freeholder as well ? the hon . Gentleman make a valid point , and it be certainly one that the Minister should listen to and take into account . I be conclude when he intervene , so I will finish with this : our home should be a place where we get to dream , not where we have nightmare . as a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , I want to bring the House ' s attention to the work we do in the summer look into property management company . the Chair of the Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , would have be here if she be not already commit to a Westminster Hall debate at the same time , so I send her apology . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this important debate . like many in this House , my constituent have be affect by property charge and the lack of transparency from certain company . we have already hear about FirstPort , and I wish to expand on what have be say about it . in Penn Place in Rickmansworth in my constituency , FirstPort look after about 140 apartment on an estate . many of my constituent who live there have contact I regard the ever - increase service charge that they face . their monthly payment have more than double , on occasion . they receive no communication as to why an increase be need , and that place extortionate pressure , both financial and emotional , on those live there . we all be aware of the cost of live in our community at the moment , give the cost of council tax , energy price , and licence fee for renting property in certain London borough . many of my constituent have be unable to sell or move , as people do not want to purchase property that come with ever - increase service charge , and we have already hear about that . this be not just an issue in my constituency . I have work with many of my fellow conservative mp on this , and indeed , I know it to be a proper cross - party issue . I have a huge amount of respect for the Minister , who I know will continue to ensure that this issue be address , build on the legacy of my government , and continue to push the matter forward , hopefully at speed . I look forward to he give that commitment when he respond to this debate . despite its expensive charge , FirstPort do not even provide an adequate property management service . one of my constituent make I aware that carpet be not be replace and wall be not be repaint . there be also a high turnover of property manager , which be ineffective for maintain the estate and symptomatic of a poorly run company . when we be in government , we bring in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , which require transparency about leasehold service charge . it would have allow leaseholder , such as those in Penn Place in my constituency , to scrutinise and challenge increase if they be unreasonable . the Act have receive Royal Assent , but it be yet to be bring fully into force . I understand some of the reason behind that , but I urge the Minister to get move on this . I be sure he will give we that reassurance a bit later . in closing , what assurance will the Minister provide to my constituent and many across the country , who constantly face service charge increase but no increase in service , and how we can well protect those resident ? I be so pleased that we be take the time today to debate property service charge in depth . across my constituency , resident be drown in soar bill , defer maintenance , opaque account and a carousel of management company pass the buck . these charge do not exist in a vacuum ; they sit alongside dodgy contract , conflict of interest and unadopted road — a structural failure that leave resident feel trapped and powerless . since be elect , I have have so many constituent come to I with leasehold horror story . of course , it be the service charge hike be that be bring up most . in one case , a £ 4 , 600 charge in 2017 be due to increase to over £ 9 , 000 this year , in a property where many resident be retire and on a fix income . that be not to mention the lack of transparency over what the charge be for . in this instance , resident point out that a £ 6 , 000 charge for staffing be levy during a time when there be no permanent on - site manager . I want to give credit where it be due . when I meet the team at that management company for an explanation , they hold their hand up and acknowledge that thing need to improve , and they have since follow up with resident . other company , however , be not quite as reflective . have think about this , I will not name the company in my speech , because I do not want to blight the development in question , but I must warn these company that that be an option in the future if we do not see improvement . the manage agent of one development in my constituency do not respond positively to my letter set out resident ’ concern . indeed , it be display what I have come to call the four horseman of the manage agent : hike in service charge , inadequate maintenance , poor communication with resident and a lack of financial transparency . in a previous contribution in the House , I say that resident have inform I of a 150 % increase in the service charge in two year . in its very blunt reply , the manage agent say that that be wrong and that the real increase be only a doubling in four year , which it consider reasonable . I do not , and nor do my affected constituent , who have point out that if we factor in various additional cost that use to be in the service charge but be then separate out , it be close to the increase they cite . maintenance work do not get do . when resident take I around their development this year , I see for myself the shoddily construct step that create hazard , plus defective drainage , malfunction lighting and so much more . the responsibility for some of these issue be not clear , as the developer should be take on some issue that arise shortly after development . the lack of clarity mean that resident be deal with onerous back - and - forth , whereby responsibility be forever pass on and it seem like maintenance issue will never be solve . just today , a resident describe to I how there be a rat infestation at one point , and a contractor be apparently pay £ 30 , 000 of resident ' money to resolve it . it do not . the resident ’ association be later able to sort it out , but not before that huge sum of their money be fritter away . that bring I on to the poor communication . when highlight the above problem , as well as concern from resident about service charge breakdown , I ask the manage agent what it would do to improve communication . I expect an answer that push back but at least agree to look into the concern I raise . I do not even get that . the response say it all : " we do not consider that communication require improvement . " then we come to the fourth horseman : a lack of financial transparency . I have be tell by resident that they be contractually bind to an insurance policy with a £ 5 , 000 excess , make it completely unusable . a resident have show I figure for one block that show a total insurance premium charge of over £ 60 , 000 , of which just under £ 20 , 000 — around 30 % — be commission , in a confusing brokerage set - up , with much of that go to a company link to the manage agent in quite clear way , which smack of a conflict of interest or bad . there be so many other example of this . at another development in my constituency , account be provide late to resident for three of the last five year , and in the most recent two year , account have not be provide at all , despite much push from resident and leaseholder . it be not just leaseholder in flat who be affect by service charge . I have not yet discuss the fleecehold scandal sweep up so many of my resident in the newly build development of Hampton . unadopted road be rife in new development , mean that resident be pay twice for their local area to be maintain : once in their council tax , and once in a separate service charge . I count the number of road that need to be adopt but be without a section 38 agreement — mean there be a long way to go before they be adopt — in the Peterborough part of my constituency . there be 289 of they , and they be mostly housing road . that be an unjust extra charge for thousand of resident in Hampton , Stanground , Orton and elsewhere because road be not be adopt . some proposal have be make on how we could tackle this problem . the Home Builders Federation , for example , have make useful suggestion about common adoptable standard and mandatory adoption by public authority . many member have raise the issue of the adoption of road . obviously , physical road be easy to define , but there be part of private estate that be only for that estate . do my hon . friend agree that there be a challenge , give the current financial situation , because it usually cost council money to adopt a road , and under the current law , it could be a big hit for those leaseholder to pay the fee up front for the council to adopt the road ? my hon . friend make a very useful point . I should have clarify that the figure I give do not include the private road that be not suppose to be adopt ; it be purely the one that be have this issue . as my hon . Friend say , council be in a difficult financial situation . the precarious state of local government finance after 14 year of cut and freeze certainly have not help . we also have a lot of council blame developer and developer blame council , and there be an increase divergence between what council planning department be require to grant permission for development and what the highway department of say council be willing to adopt . that be particularly vexing when there be a two - tier system , with plan at one level and highway at another . I hope local government reorganisation will help with that , but it be happen in unitary authority too , and we need to explore way to deal with that . ultimately , these be symptom of a wide issue in how the system treat freeholder and leaseholder alike . the leasehold and commonhold reform Bill will be a vital step forward . I be pleased the Government be commit to end leasehold for new development . from my experience , that change can not come soon enough . a key advantage of commonhold become the default tenure be that manage agent will be appoint by and responsible to leaseholder , rather than absentee corporate freeholder . of course , the situation with manage agent still need to be improve , and I be very supportive of mandatory regulation as a core step towards that , which I hope the Minister will comment on . this debate come in a week of real progress : the Renters ’ Rights Act 2025 have become law , finally give tenant the fair treatment they deserve . let ' s keep up that progress , because nobody should have to pay through the nose for poor service , broken promise and a system that put profit before resident . I be grateful to the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this important debate . across the country , and certainly across my constituency , leaseholder be trap in a system that too often leave they feel powerless . they face spiral service charge , opaque management practice and little or no accountability from the agent or freeholder who control their live environment . in my experience , these problem be particularly acute for elderly and more vulnerable resident , many of whom live in retirement development and depend on the professionalism of those entrust with manage their estate . far too often , what they experience be mismanagement , confusion and financial anxiety . to illustrate the scale of the issue , I want to draw on two case from my Surrey Heath constituency that encapsulate the national failing : first , Mytchett Heath , a retirement complex manage by Cognatum Estates , a not - for - profit developer and operator base in the south and south - east of England ; and secondly , the Courtyard in Camberley , a residential building currently undergo cladding remediation — in effect , two scandal roll into one . at the Courtyard , one of my constituent , Sharon , have see her annual service charge rise by £ 1 , 394 between 2017 and 2025 , and have pay a total of £ 22 , 727 over that period on top of council tax . in 2021 alone , her bill rise by 38 % with no clear explanation . when she seek answer from Pinnacle Property Management , the manage agent , the response be slow , incomplete and unhelpful . she have be leave anxious , powerless and deeply mistrustful of those manage her building . at Mytchett Heath , resident face an equally troubling pattern , and I be grateful to the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) for support I in my investigation of the organisation . maintenance cost appear without warning or justification . worse still , the manage fee at Mytchett Heath — the basic charge that resident pay for estate management — have increase by 75 % since 2019 , at an average rate of 10 . 7 % per year . as all of we know , that far exceed inflation , wage growth and pension increase , yet resident have be give no clear explanation of how those rise be justify , nor any transparent breakdown of where their money be go . there be no effective oversight mechanism for manage agent or freeholder . although resident can , in theory , appeal to the industry ombudsman , many be deter from that process because it be too long , too complex and often too costly . what be particularly concern for my resident at Mytchett Heath be that the manage director of Cognatum Estates , Mr John Lavin , also sit on the board of the Association of Retirement Housing Managers — the very trade body that purport to regulate and uphold standard across the sector . that be a textbook case of mark one ' s own homework . elderly resident , meanwhile , be leave financially trap , emotionally exhausted and with nowhere to turn . the human cost of all this be immense : stress , anxiety , deplete saving and a complete loss of peace of mind . these be retiree spend their later year pore over spreadsheet and unanswered email , when they should be enjoy the comfort and security they have work for . back in April , I meet the board of Cognatum Estates to hear its side of the story . I be tell that some resident be " encourage other to protest " . in a recent letter from Cognatum ' s chief executive officer , I hear that complaint be , in fact , part of a " co - ordinate campaign to … denigrate the organisation . " these be not political agitator — I should know , because I have meet enough of they — but elderly homeowner who be ask basic question about the bill they receive . they deserve answer , not accusation . in conclusion , I ask the Minister three simple question . when can leaseholder — particularly elderly resident — expect to be able to receive clear , itemised explanation of how their service charge be calculate ? secondly , when manage agent fail to communicate or justify large increase , such as the 70 % rise in Mytchett Heath ' s managing fee since 2019 , what meaningful sanction might they face ? finally , will the Government review the governance of trade association such as the Association of Retirement Housing Managers to ensure genuine independence and oversight , rather than industry insider mark their own homework ? the scandal of property service charge be one of the most unjust , indefensible and generally enrage issue face my constituent . in many case , the charge amount to little more than a form of parasitic exploitation of ordinary people by absentee landlord and business . it have be allow to fester for far too long . across the country , 5 million people be trap in a broken system that leave they beholden to obscure , often overseas company with a licence to cream off their hard - earn earning with almost complete impunity . they have get away with it for year because leaseholder simply can not effectively challenge this unfairness . as so often in Britain today , wealth be translate directly into power and ordinary people be leave without any sense of agency over something as basic as their month to month finance . the issue of unfair and arbitrary property service charge be impact every corner of North East Hertfordshire , from Royston to Tewin and from Baldock to Buntingford . there be fleecehold estate where constituent have purchase a new build property under freehold condition but find they be " hostage to the whim and desire of service company who can charge any amount of service fee they wish and without redress " , make a mockery of the notion of freehold . there be housing association tenant pay eye - watering fee , yet leave with neglect and inadequate service ; resident in retirement accommodation face extortionate maintenance cost that leave family struggle to pay care fee and trap with property that have little resale value ; and leaseholder face huge hike in service charge by freeholder , yet see little evidence of the maintenance they be supposedly pay for . one constituent put the experience plainly : " they be commit service charge abuse " and " they be make people ' s live miserable . " I have previously criticise privatised water company and housing developer for rake in vast profit despite substandard delivery , but in many way they pale in comparison with the sheer audacity of the leasehold scandal . these be issue root in feudal concept of property ownership , and those trap pay these fee , with next to no ability to challenge or escape they , be in effect still suffer from a form of economic serfdom where those with the right title deed can levy private taxis on ordinary people that bear practically no relation to service render . nearly 1 , 000 year after William ' s conquest , I think the English have suffer under this Norman yoke quite enough . the Government ' s own Competition and Markets Authority find " no persuasive evidence that consumer receive anything in return " for the ground rent they pay . in community like Letchworth , that ring painfully true . we should all welcome the Government ' s recent victory in the High Court over wealthy private interest who throw million at try to block vital reform . I also welcome minister ' commitment to finish the job of reform leasehold . I look forward to support further step to end this scandal once and for all . the solution be clear : municipal estate ownership and the ability to move to commonhold as quickly as be reasonably possible . home ownership should mean own the brick and mortar and should come with a sense of freedom , not exposure to exploitation . no one should be leave behind as we put this injustice to bed . I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the broad campaign for a charter of community empowerment . many of its principle be relevant to the debate . if the Government be to achieve that historic labour mission of redistribute not just wealth but power into the hand of the majority , in today ' s context that must mean trust that ordinary people be more capable of upkeepe their own estate and manage their home fairly than offshore firm or the landowne aristocracy . for once , I will not rain down a series of detailed demand on the Minister , as I know he face a complex legal situation leave by the previous Administration . today I want only to urge he to cut this gordian knot in this Parliament and give my constituent a straight - forward way out of be forever tie to service fee by unaccountable company . the economic benefit to our high street , which be desperately need in village and market town such as those I represent , would be enormous , as thousand of family across the country find their disposable income no long slash every month by charge that can not be justify . the resistance that the Government have face from the freehold lobby , cling desperately to their ill - get gain and the sacred right to turn hard - work people into cash cow , should only renew our sense of urgency . I be sure that we will see more appeal and outcry from vested interest — the Government should know the Labour party and million outside this place be unite behind they . after the High Court ' s ruling , the Residential Freehold Association warn that the decision " open the door for Government to intervene in market far beyond the leasehold sector " — in other word , the terrible spectre that democracy may be empower to secure the public good before private profit . as my constituent lose out in an economy rig against ordinary people — one that reward wealthy property owner and unearned income rather than those who go out and work for a living — I say , quite simply : I hope it be right . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure this important debate . I understand more than most the issue with property service charge , because I be a leaseholder where I live in Hoddesdon . a quarter of my constituent live in flat or maisonette , and 25 % of property transaction in Broxbourne last year involve leasehold property , but shockingly , as we have hear , it be hard to find any leaseholder who have a good word to say about their landlord or their service charge . landlord and solicitor do not provide enough information to new resident , and far too often prospective resident be not properly inform before they move in about how much service charge have increase in previous year . they be then hit with huge rise down the line . it be also unclear where the money be go . a resident in Waltham Cross tell I : " the service charge have skyrocket from around £ 800 to £ 6 , 000 for each leaseholder , yet live condition remain extremely dire . resident here face ongoing issue include trespasser , mould , broken security door , mice infestation and squatter . our building also have several defect , include weak floor , fire safety issue , and ongoing leakage . at one point my flat become uninhabitable after a severe leak that take month to resolve " . I hear these story again and again from constituent who come to I as the contact of last resort after month and sometimes year of neglect to their property . in that case I meet the management company involve , RMG , early this year , but nothing have change . whether it be RMG , FirstPort , Bamptons , EN8 Homes or Warwick Estates , leaseholder deserve well from their landlord and management company , who focus purely on collect ever high charge for bad service . however , by far the bad treatment of leaseholder in my constituency have be at the hand of — I hope the Minister be listen to this point — labour - run Enfield council . I be first contact by resident on the Whitefields estate in May this year , and what I hear leave I outraged . completely out of the blue , Enfield council be demand up to £ 50 , 000 from each leaseholder for " urgent " repair . roof that have never have a leak be earmark to be replace , and window would be fix , even though they have be use for year without issue . understandably , my resident immediately ask , " what about my service charge ? " well , as the Leasehold Advisory Service say , many landlord collect money out of the service charge for a sink fund , to help cover the cost of exactly these kind of major work . but not Enfield council . no , it expect my constituent to stump up all the cash , even after raise the service charge that year and , as far as the resident be concern , have not spend a single penny on the estate in decade . the Whitefields estate tenant association , and in particular leaseholder Nicky McCabe , have work incredibly hard to bring the community together in response to this issue . they simply demand straightforward answer to straightforward question , but they be meet with confusing statement from Enfield council representative , who find it far too easy to say , " that ' s not my job . " I attend the meeting . there be a number of director from Enfield council there , all of whom earn significant sum of money , and they could not answer basic question from my constituent about how much they would have to pay , and what be go to change on the estate . the communication be shocking . my constituent ' fight be still ongoing , and they have my full support . I be sure that many member have attend meeting with group of resident who , in try to resolve issue that be cause they so much anxiety , be at their wit ' end . we have an example in Fylde that be actually pre the management company . an estate have be develop , but it flood during the construction and twice since , and now the estate company be desperate to get it into a management company , and to transfer all the flood risk liability to that company . do my hon . friend agree that kind of thing will just cause further problem down the line ? I agree with my hon . friend , who make an excellent point in stand up for his constituent . this be an important point . all mp across the House have probably attend such meeting , and these company be unable to answer the most basic question . they be pay considerable amount of money , and they can not answer simple question from constituent about how much money they will have to pay , where the liability sit , and what work they be go to do . I do not know the case the hon . Gentleman be talk about , but I agree that good communication be important . however , it be his Government , under Margaret Thatcher , who introduce the right to buy . that mean we have leaseholder mix with council tenant , so where a council have to improve a property , it need to go to the leaseholder for their share of the cost . there be always go to be a tension there , and he must acknowledge that that will be a reality where we have pepper - pot estate — notwithstanding that he obviously need to fight for proper information for his constituent . I fully support the right to buy , which be a good policy — [ interruption . ] I be just state that it be a good policy and I support that . the hon . Lady make an interesting point about communication , which must be there . as I have mention , Enfield council do not collect a sink fund , which can go some way towards mitigate some of the issue , as she and I have raise , with leaseholder be ask to stump up for large bill . we need more transparency and well regulation , and we must ensure — here I agree with hon . member across the Chamber — that council adopt outside amenity space . we need real improvement in the way that leaseholder be treat . abolish ground rent be a good first step and the Government need to get on with deliver that . I also agree that commonhold must be more widespread , but be by no mean a silver bullet or right for everyone . I urge the Government to get on with it , improve the life of hundred of my constituent , and urgently implement more of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . we must get on with those improvement and help hundred of our constituent . rise — Order . with an immediate five - minute time limit , I call Ms Julie Minns . I thank the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure the debate and enable member across the House to give voice to our constituent , like mine in Carlisle , who be , quite frankly , feed up . they be feed up with be charge hundred of pound a year in estate management fee for service that be either not deliver or deliver poorly ; they be feed up with ask for transparency and get vague spreadsheet , instead of receipt for the service that they be tell have be deliver ; and they be feed up with be tell that they have no choice , no voice and no way to challenge that . one of my first piece of casework , after my election last year , concern FirstPort , and one of the more recent case concern another estate management company , Gateway . they be different company , but there be the same problem with charge for thing like grass cutting , street cleaning and lighting maintenance . one might say that those charge be to be expect , but too often they be levy while the grass become overgrown , the rubbish be not pick up and the road remain unlit . quite rightly , resident then ask for proof of where their money have be go and , quite consistently , they be give a list of cost , not invoice — no evidence and no accountability . in some case , the same service appear more than once under different name . it be confusing , opaque and unfair . I acknowledge the work do by the last Government and continue by our Government . I be pleased to see swift action in the early month of this government to implement key provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I welcome the Government ' s wide programme of reform , remove the threat of forfeiture , tackle abuse by manage agent and implement the Law Commission ' s recommendation on right to manage , but we must go far , especially as we build new home . the Government ' s house building agenda be ambitious , and rightly so . we need more home and we need they quickly , but we also need to ensure that when people move into those home , they be not be rip off by management company they do not choose . it be not enough just to get the brick and mortar down ; we need to ensure that the regulation around property charge be construct properly too . we need enforceable standard for transparency . if a company charge for a service , they must be require to show that it be deliver and provide proof of what it cost . if the grass become overgrown , the litter pile up and the road remain unlit , resident should not be expect to pay . we also need a clear route to redress . at the moment , too many people feel trap by be tie to a management company that they do not choose , with no meaningful way to hold it to account . ask for reform be not about undermine the sector ; it be about fairness , restore trust and ensure that when people buy a home , they be not buy into a system that take advantage of they . we have make a start , but if we be serious about protect homeowner , we need to finish the job and to bring cowboy estate management company to heel . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure today ' s debate and set out the deep concern about property service charge that many of we hear about from our constituent . since be elect , I have receive countless email from constituent across Bexleyheath , Crayford and Slade Green who be struggle with rise service charge , lack of transparency and poor communication from manage agent . in the word of a constituent who live in a development where the service charge have increase from £ 1 , 800 a year to £ 3 , 200 a year : " we honestly don ' t have a clue what we be pay for . " other describe themselves as " cash cow " and speak of " financial hardship to those trap in their clutch " . one constituent , a pensioner , have to borrow money from her adult child , and she be now consider sell her car if another unexpected bill arrive . another , who ask to spread an additional bill over monthly payment , be tell that she would be charge £ 60 for the trouble . I have be hold public meeting with resident across my constituency this year to discuss these issue . the meeting have see large turnout and resident understandably at the end of their tether . I accept that some increase in service charge can be explain by rise insurance cost , build safety cost and other economic factor , but other item on service charge bill beggar belief : £ 1 , 000 a year for CCTV , when there be no CCTV ; service charge for a gym that have not be build ; service charge for a 24 / 7 concierge service that operate from 7 be to 7 pm ; and £ 5 , 000 a year to empty one dog bin that member of the public , live outside of the estate , be use on a communal open space . despite those cost , maintenance often remain poor . I will focus on one example : the Eastside Quarter development in Bexleyheath , on the site of our former council or civic office build a few year ago . the development be originally manage by DJC , which be then buy by FirstPort , which have be relieve of its duty and replace by a new manage agent . the director of the management company take action to remove FirstPort in 2024 due to concern about performance level and a lack of financial transparency , which be raise by resident . FirstPort be responsible for produce audit account for the year 2022 , 2023 and 2024 , but in the most recent correspondence I have receive it fail to do so . as a result , the developer be legally pursue those account at their cost . FirstPort be unable to provide any fund on account to the new manage agent . in correspondence to I , the new manage agent state that the service charge bank account be empty and that many supplier be owe substantial sum , with many of they have withdraw service as a result . continue management on the estate be possible only because the developer provide substantial funding to the new manage agent to enable it to pay supplier . I have see similar issue on Talehangers Close in Bexleyheath . at Vickers Green in Crayford , where FirstPort have attend a public meeting and where I believe we be make some progress , I have see that some of the fault lie — in my view — with the local authority , which agree a planning development back in 2009 in which resident take on responsibility for the road , the lighting and the public space , which be then cost back to the resident . I welcome the Government ' s consultation on plan to strengthen protection over charge and service and hope that they will bring forward measure to support my constituent . I be proud to sponsor the Managing Agents ( Regulation ) Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , and I support call from across the Chamber for the need for clear manage agent standard and regulation . I welcome the Minister ' s comment on these matter and the measure to be bring forward in secondary legislation . I support the Government ' s work in this area , but I will continue to press for further action to empower resident and deal with service charge to protect resident across the Bexleyheath and Crayford constituency . I join other in congratulate the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on secure this debate . I know that leaseholder across the country will be watch this debate very closely , because the cost of be a leaseholder have contribute to the cost of living challenge that so many of our constituent have face for such a long time . my leaseholder action group in Kensington and bayswater , which the Minister kindly meet with recently , regularly share story of escalate , unaccountable and untransparent service charge levy by manage agent that they have no control over . at worst , the current system can represent a cartel , with a broken market in which competition between manage agent be undermine by monopoly - type relationship with some freeholder and a broken connection between those who pay the bill and those who deliver the service . the impact can be devastating . one of my constituent , Adriana , have take her housing provider to tribunal three separate time simply to get clarity on how her service charge be calculate . each time she have win , but the housing provider be still not provide the information ; indeed , it be now offer to withdraw all the charge , rather than provide that information . that be not transparency : it rely on the assumption that the other resident , many of whom be elderly or financially strained , will not have the resource to challenge . rather than give up , Adriana now support other resident in help they to understand their right and how to contest these unfair practice . her determination be admirable , but it should not fall to resident themselves to protect one another from a system that be suppose to protect they . another group of resident who speak to I regularly about these issue , who live in a building call Shaftesbury Place , have be hit with crippling increase to their charge after a 2 , 489 % increase in their building insurance premium . that annual cost , which be up from £ 15 , 000 to £ 375 , 000 a year , have be pass directly to the leaseholder through their service charge . the housing provider say that the freeholder procure the insurance — the resident have see evidence suggest otherwise — but the confusion over who procure the insurance and how the premium be calculate have leave leaseholder catch in the middle . the justification appear to rest on a fire risk assessment that many resident believe be flawed , but the result be that ordinary homeowner , include shared ownership homeowner try to climb the ladder , have be leave with unaffordable bill and no clear line of accountability for how those cost have be allow to spiral . I commend my hon . friend for explain the problem so clearly , problem that be share by my elderly resident in Aire Valley Court and Sutton Court in Bingley . they too have see above - inflation rise in service charge and a lack of transparency about account , with no evidence to justify they . do my hon . friend agree that it be now time that we bring in licensing and strong regulation of manage agent such as FirstPort ? I agree entirely with my hon . friend . there be now an overwhelming case for introduce mandatory professional standard — which I know the Government be bring forward — and for consider what regulation might look like , whether that be a new regulator or expand on the current system . it be clear that some of the suggestion that the Government have consult on in their " strengthen leaseholder protection over charge and service " consultation have the potential to deliver for resident such as mine and my hon . friend ' s . that include a right to veto their property agent , and I hope the threshold for that will be set at a level that will work in place such as my constituency . with a large number of overseas and absent owner , reach high threshold can be challenge , so I hope the threshold will be accessible . my constituent would appreciate hearing from the Minister — or from a different Minister at a later stage — about our progress on tackle the issue of build insurance . it be a big issue , particularly for metropolitan Members of Parliament . of course , that must go hand in hand with continue on the path to full reform of the system . I be delighted by the High Court ' s decision to comprehensively dismiss challenge to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . that be a vital step that will enable progress towards implement reform that will make it easy and cheap for leaseholder to extend their lease or buy their freehold . I hope it will smooth the way for a new Bill that will deliver on our manifesto commitment to leaseholder — to " bring the feudal leasehold system to an end " in this Parliament . I be incredibly proud of that commitment , and I know that million of leaseholder watch this debate also want to see it deliver . it be something that previous government promise , but fail to deliver . this government have already take decisive action to dramatically improve the right of 4 . 6 million private rent household in England by abolish no - fault eviction , increase security in tenancy , and ensure safe and healthy home for all . we have take action to dramatically improve the right of 5 million social rent household in England by bring Awaab ' s law into force , guarantee emergency repair within a statutory timeframe . now , we have the opportunity to deliver on our promise to the 5 million leasehold household , too . I place on record my thank to the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for bring this debate before the House , and to the Backbench Business Committee for scheduling time for it . from the number of Members present in the Chamber today , we can all see that property service charge be a problem across the entire country , but they certainly be for people in Lichfield , Burntwood and the village . in the time I have , I will focus on just one of the estate where these charge be an issue : the Roman Heights estate in the village of Streethay , on the edge of Lichfield . the people who live on that estate know just how difficult manage agent can be . I have have dozen of household get in touch to tell I about the appalling service they have receive from their manage agent — I will not name it , but I be sure it be the first name we would think of . over the summer , I hold a town hall with resident , at which I hear the same thing over and over again . bill for management be come through completely irregularly , sometimes with three bill for three year be receive in the space of three month , which be interesting . there be absolutely no transparency about the level of charge , with demand to come up with huge sum of money at a moment ' s notice . all the while , basic maintenance such as cut the grass just be not be do , leave resident wonder what exactly they be pay for . I thank my hon . friend , who be also from Staffordshire , for give way . a constituent have get in touch with I to say , " it genuinely feel like they be steal money from we . " another say , " I just feel like we be a cash cow for these company . " do my hon . friend agree that if manage agent and company want to continue operate these service , they must increase transparency and make thing more regular for their customer ? my hon . friend be right . she be a very good friend , and often she have see speech before I give they , but she have not see this one , and she give I the perfect segue into my next point . transparency be so important . when I survey resident in the affected estate , 85 % tell I that billing be either poor or very poor . some 79 % have tell I that the management of the estate be poor or very poor . I have write to that management company , and I be look forward to meet it , because its write response be simply not good enough . much like my hon . friend in Staffordshire , I have constituent who be under the same management company . even when try to use mechanism to see thing , such as by a section 21 request under the Landlord and Tenancy Act 1985 , they have be ignore and dismiss , or often be give incorrect information . do my hon . friend hope , like I do , that when the Minister sum up , he will talk a little bit about the technical measure for hold these organisation to account and why they be not work so well ? enforcement of the exist rule should be enough . whether or not those should be change , there be mechanism available that my constituent be try to access that be simply not work . my hon . friend be well apprise over the specific issue . part of the issue we may be face be that he refer to an Act of Parliament that be old than either of we . there may be significant space for an update in this area . it be clear from my hon . friend ' comment and from everything we have hear this afternoon that this situation be all too common . up and down the country , manage agent be just let people down . the long - term solution have to be council take on the management of these estate themselves . it be an absolute travesty that we have a bizarre situation where some people be be charge twice for the same service . last week , other Labour mp and I meet the House Builders Federation to discuss this issue , and I place on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) for organise that . the message that come out of that be clear that adoption be hold up those company , too . they want to see adoption happen fast . there be massive issue with how they be approach for thing . we hear one story of a particular local authority that demand semi - permeable paving as part of its planning process , but its highway department will apparently never adopt anything with semi - permeable paving . that be a totally bizarre situation . it be a case not of two council but of one organisation where the different part be not talk to each other . council need to work hard on this issue . they need to ensure that they be work with resident and company to get it right , but they also need to have the money and expertise to be able to do so . fourteen year of cut , freeze and austerity on council have leave planning department hollow out , and we need to ensure we be rebuild that capacity so that thing can be do correctly . it be important that we take this issue seriously , so that resident in my constituency and across the country get the service they so deeply need , for which they apparently be pay through the nose . rise — I be impose an immediate four - minute time limit . I will see what I can do , Madam Deputy Speaker . property service charge and the behaviour of the company that levy they be cause real distress across the country . I thank the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for her speech set out those challenge . in Colchester , I have hear from resident in Orchard Gardens , Colne View and Kingswood Heath who be be charge astonishing amount — often thousand of pound a year — for service that be either poorly deliver or not deliver at all . many of those home be manage by one company , and the House could guess that that company be FirstPort . when I walk into the Chamber , FirstPort have be name 39 time in the Chamber this year , but I imagine that have double in the course of this afternoon . it claim to be an " award - win property management service " that " make sure customer feel safe and happy in their home . " I think we all have a little bit of news for FirstPort . retire resident in Orchard Gardens show I demand for payment for service that they never receive or for which they have already pay . resident at the Colne View development have face a 15 - year battle over neglect , overcharging and obfuscation . they have face extortionate service charge — sometimes double in a year — yet their building be leave mouldy , unsafe and unclean . they feel bully , belittle and beyond hope that they will ever resolve what have become a living nightmare . I be pleased to say that one of those resident , Chia , be able to come into Parliament last week to give some evidence to a panel of mp organise by my hon . friend the Members for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) and for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) , who have be work on this issue for some time . I hope the Minister will consider the evidence that be gather . will my hon . friend give way ? I be advise not to , so that we can keep to time . Lord Best , chair of the Regulation of Property Agents Working Group , say in his recent evidence to the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee that this " be an unregulated sector " , and his group have call for proper regulation . if property agent can not behave responsibly , they must be hold to account . this be about fairness , restore trust , and ensure that nobody in Colchester , or anywhere else , have to pay over the odd for basic service , or fight tooth and nail just to get a straight answer from company like FirstPort . I urge the Minister to move at pace to implement this new framework . I welcome this debate warmly . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure it , and for her excellent speech introduce it , and to other member for their great contribution . property service charge , whether for freeholder who have purchase home on unadopted new build estate or for leaseholder live in flat , be a huge concern to resident across Dartford . it be no exaggeration to say that the charge be cause misery to my constituent . home to Ebbsfleet Garden City , Ingress Park in Greenhithe and the Bridge estate near Dartford , the constituency that I be proud to represent have among the high number of leaseholder and freeholder pay property service charge of any in the country . as other have , I have survey my resident on manage agent and cost , and it be fair to say in summary that resident be bemuse by what seem to be the lack of a framework for assess what reasonable service charge should cover . long - term trend in rise building insurance cost and energy price and opaque charging practice by manage agent have create a toxic mix for resident . as if that be not enough , long after buy their new property , resident have be shock to receive demand for three to five year - worth of backdate service charge . in some case , they even predate their ownership of the property , or apply soon after they buy the property , and the bill often contain immediate demand for repayment , despite come year after people start occupy their home . another incredibly frustrating issue for resident , which the Minister might be able to pick up directly with developer , be lack of transparency for buyer regard the service charge they should expect to pay . one constituent end up £ 4 , 000 in debt , as he be be charge for the maintenance of the estate around his house — on which construction have not even be complete . much of the area around new build estate in my constituency remain unadopted by the local authority , an issue that we discuss early this year in a Westminster Hall debate secure by my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) . there be a huge sense of unease and unfairness among resident live on those unadopted estate . they be pay full council tax in addition to hefty service charge . they be pay for the local authority to maintain road and park in other part of the area , but not those on the estate on which they live . I warmly welcome the Minister ' s response in that debate , in which he confirm that it remain a commitment to end the injustice of so - call fleecehold estate , and I hope we can have an update on that at the end of this debate . I be grateful to have be among more than 100 Government Members who have , since November 2024 , band together to hold to account manage agent , include FirstPort and RMG . we will not let manage agent off the hook for the extremely poor service that they deliver to our resident . we need a road map from the Government on how unadopted road and estate will be take on by the local authority . finally , perhaps the Minister might could remind house builder that their choice of manage agent for new development will cause they long - term reputational damage if they continue to select company that simply be not up to the job . let we get this right on behalf of freeholder and leaseholder across the country . while we have hear countless example of grievance about property service charge today , for many resident , this ultimately boil down to one fundamental issue : disparity . far be it from I to play devil ' s advocate for a broken sector — a market failure — but some resident do face affordable service charge , and benefit from management company that be responsive and effective in resolve their problem ; yet other , often live in similar development , be saddle with soar fee and management company that be slow , unaccountable and uncommunicative , leave basic issue unresolved for month on end . when people be force to pay ever - high price for worsen service , it be no wonder that frustration and resentment towards the sector as a whole be grow . one of my constituent recently write to I to say that they be alarm by their service charge , which have rise from £ 161 a month to £ 266 the following year — a staggering 65 % increase , which might be a record today . the justification provide be that the management company , which I will not name — the House can hazard a guess — have simply overspend on work that it have carry out . such an arbitrary rise be unaffordable for so many household , and illustrate the dramatic and damaging impact that unchecked service charge inflation can have . beyond the question of cost lie an equally important issue : transparency . too often , resident have no idea what they be pay for and why , as we have hear . service charge statement be opaque , and when people ask for explanation , they be often meet with obfuscation and silence . there be also a chronic lack of oversight and accountability , and I look forward to hear from the Minister about the potential to address that . as we have hear , when resident wish to challenge high or unjustified cost , their option for any form of recourse , except through the court , be limited . the balance of power lie entirely with the manage agent , not the homeowner foot the bill . bad of all , many people discover only after move in that the management company responsible for the estate be unfit for purpose and provide a poor and inconsistent service in exchange for their hard - earn money . resident still have to pay council tax in addition to their service charge , lead to a feeling of be double charge . it be therefore no surprise that my constituent be cry out for a strong ability to take on the right to manage . area that be manage locally be often extraordinarily effective , with well service , well value for money and well local oversight all compound to support community to thrive . one of my constituent share her frustration that her estate ' s management company consistently fail to maintain communal ground . she write : " my issue be that we , the resident , have no real power or control over the management of the communal ground , but we be expect to pay all the cost . I want that control . we should have the right to make our own choice of property manager . " that sentiment be share by thousand across the country . it speak to an urgent need for regulation of a sector that have have a licence to print money . its high yield give private equity company a perverse incentive dynamic , which the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) describe so eloquently at the start of this debate . as we have hear , problem also arise from the failure of local authority to adopt highway , which be due to the poor incentive structure . I hope to see all these issue — particularly transparency , value for money , accountability and professional standard — address in the leasehold and commonhold reform Bill . after all the progress we have make on renter ’ right in the past week , the Bill represent a huge opportunity for leaseholder across the country , thank to this Labour Government . until we rebalance those relationship , resident will continue to feel powerless , exploit and unheard , and that be completely unacceptable . I declare an interest as a leaseholder myself . like my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , I will not name any manage agent or development , because many of my resident be concerned that if their block be name , it will cause they very big issue . I be delighted to hear from my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) that there be some good management company , because the picture be certainly mix in my patch . the company that have be name often in this debate manage some estate in my area , and some be well run than other . a lot seem to depend on the individual property manager and how they run their development , and the size and age of a development definitely have an impact . in the short time that I have , I will raise a couple of important issue . one be about insurance . we know that cost go up post Grenfell because insurance move from insure just the floor that a flat be on to the entire block , but other increase have arise that be difficult to explain , and there be a danger that we will struggle to get insurance . one block in my patch be able to get one insurer quote for 12 month only , and it be quote an extortionately high excess rate at the beginning — somewhere in the region of £ 15 , 000 . that be the excess that the housing association freeholder would have to pay before anything happen . it manage to get that down , but it could only get one 12 - month period of insurance . I think we need to be careful in our discussion about the relationship between insurance company and manage agent . I know from my role as Chair of the Treasury Committee that there be very strict rule on ringfence operation , so insurance company and manage agent should not have a cosy relationship . in law , they be not entitle to do so . I thank my hon . friend for her work on this issue on the Treasury Committee . in my speech , I raise an insurance issue that my constituent have go to the Financial Ombudsman Service about , but they be have problem about whether it be a FOS issue or a property ombudsman issue , and it be just not very clear . would she join I in call for more clarity ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that we need clarity on this issue . we be talk a lot about service charge , but the insurance industry have a responsibility because it account for a large chunk of they . regulator have a clear role to play , and it be important that that be consider in all the change we be discuss . I be pleased that the Government have be consult on these issue . the consultation on service charge end in February , so I hope the Minister can give we an update about it . it be important to touch on a couple of other issue . we know that poor maintenance lead to high cost , so standard and expectation should be set on maintenance , which cost leaseholder , but cost they less in the long run if thing be maintain . that be a repeat theme across my constituency , as some very modern block have not be maintain properly , which mean leaseholder end up pay more in the end than they should have do . there be also an issue with greening block . I have constituent work very effectively to try to get electric vehicle charge point and well insulation in a block that be an old warehouse ; the famous loft apartment be very popular in my constituency at one point . however , improve such thing create betterment , which increase the ground rent , because the owner of the building can say it be an improvement and can charge more . such tenant be make their property greener , clean and more efficient — cost they less in a lot of way — but they be end up with their cost be put up somewhere else , which seem to be a complete imbalance that we have not discuss . on the right to manage and commonhold — I be a Labour and Co - op MP , and I be very proud to be push for commonhold — there can be issue where there be a right to manage . I be work with a development where there be a right - to - manage company , but the director have hide themselves away and be not act responsibly in answer and provide information to their neighbour in the development . I think governance need an overhaul in this area . it be not go to solve everything if resident take over the management but then do not do a good job , so there need to be transparency all round . as we know , this be on top of increase mortgage charge , and let we not forget what the 2022 Budget do to mortgage charge . shared owner be pay mortgage , rent and service charge , and this be all add to the cost of live and cause huge upset , on top of the spending on build safety requirement that be hit so many of my constituent . that be cause real problem , but we need to be clear , so rather than go through the list myself , I will endorse all the ask that my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) list about transparency , openness and get clear right for resident to challenge service charge and to make sure they absolutely understand why they be be charge such fee . that be the basic minimum , but we should be make sure it happen . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I warmly congratulate the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on secure what , give the number of member take part , have clearly be an important debate . liberal Members of this place have be campaign to end residential leasehold and the charge it entail since Lloyd George , who , at the time his People ' s Budget in 1909 , say that the practice " be not business , it be blackmail . . . ground rent be a part of it — fine , fee ; you be to make no alteration without … consent . " his word ring true today . over a century later , we still have the same feudal system , and charge that trap homeowner in a cycle of uncapped ground rent , exploitative charge and similarly unreasonable estate management fee . the scale of the problem be staggering — there be 4 . 8 million leasehold property in England , which be more than a fifth of the housing stock — but England , Wales and Australia be the only country still operate such residential leasehold approach . Most other country be perfectly able to ensure building maintenance and safety without rely on such outdated practice . one of the thing I hear most often from my constituent be how long it take to get change in this place , and property service charge be a perfect example . they have be around for decade , but very little seem to have happen . in 2019 , the Government commission the independent Lord Best to write a report , and he lay out sensible solution and a clear path ahead : a new property regulator to establish a code of practice , the licensing of property manager and agent , and minimum qualification for those work in the sector . while I acknowledge the last Government ' s work in this area , it take they five year to bring forward legislation , and when they do in the form of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , they completely neglect to regulate property management or spiral service charge . that be a measure of how leaseholder have be let down despite the overwhelming evidence of the need for action . the Labour Government promise that they would implement the rest of the Act , but well over a year later little progress have be make — progress that would give redress to those saddle with charge they can not contest and marriage value that be wholly unreasonable . these delay be fail the people who be trap in these property . recently , I hear from one constituent about their experience of leasehold service charge . when they purchase their property in 2022 , the service charge be £ 1 , 700 . in 2023 they rise to £ 2 , 600 , which be a 52 % increase . the next year they go up to £ 3 , 700 , which be a further 43 % increase . the following year — 2025 — they reach £ 5 , 010 , which be another 34 % increase . overall , the service charge triple in just three year , and for what ? after a huge effort by resident ask to see quote and invoice , it turn out that the answer be that it be for nothing — or rather for incompetence and , as Lloyd George might have put it , for greed . there be invoice relate to other building entirely and gape difference between maintenance quote and actual cost . eventually , through the right to manage , the resident appoint a new manage agent and get their charge back down to around £ 2 , 000 . that mean that over those four year , resident pay approximately £ 13 , 000 in service charge . if the charge have remain at the proper level , it would have be £ 2 , 000 a year , so they have overpay by £ 5 , 000 each and they will never get that money back . the money go straight into the pocket of unregulated manager . that be the cost of delay — it be a real cost be bear by constituent of mine and other member . the constituent say to I that the process be akin to have a full - time job , which be an entirely unreasonable way for the property industry to be work — and what about resident who be less able than my constituent ? some resident may be old or in poor health , or simply ill - equipped for the massive task of navigate that bureaucracy . they may be so busy with work or child that they do not know they have be rip off until it be too late . folk should not have to devote that level of time and energy to get redress . the issue of fleecehold , which have be refer to by hon . member , include my hon . friend the Members for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) and for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , must not be forget . company such as FirstPort have be mention , and I assure Members that they be as much of a problem in Taunton and Wellington as they be elsewhere . freeholder often have even few right to challenge estate management charge than those who have lease . the arrangement operate almost like leasehold . such resident pay double — both their council tax and estate management charge — and often receive a far bad service than those who live on estate fully adopt by a local authority , where the only charge be council tax . they have all the financial burden of leasehold without the legal protection . another constituent — a freeholder in Taunton — have be await the regulation for year now so that he can take his case to tribunal . even the right that exist on paper be worthless without effective enforcement . currently neither leaseholder nor those pay estate management charge have any easy way to ensure that their right be uphold . that be why we need both the provision of the 2024 Act to be commence , and an independent regulator with tooth and the ability to cap unreasonable charge levy on both leaseholder and freeholder . even the British Property Federation say back in 2023 that " the lack of any provision to introduce competency standard or regulation to our sector be a miss opportunity . " the Property Institute have welcome proposal for oversight . when even those who would be regulate be ask for it , surely it be time to act . the Government rightly have an ambition to build 300 , 000 new home a year , but we Lib Dems would prefer that to include a stretching target of 150 , 000 social home . we agree that home be need . however , in build they we must not create a next generation of fleecehold property . the practice of developer build estate with share roadway and public space , then retain ownership through management company and charge resident for their upkeep while those same resident be pay council tax , have to end . for the vast majority of standard development , there need to be a presumption that share area must be adopt by the local authority . crucially , council need to be give the proper resource to allow that ; the ability to recoup the cost of manage those space from developer or landowner ; and power to sanction those who fail to complete road and similar infrastructure to the right standard . we can not allow developer to profit from management company , while resident pay twice for the same service . it have be 116 year since Lloyd George call out these practice . we have have six year since Lord Best ' s report lay out a clear path forward . we have have over a year with the new Government in office . the evidence be overwhelming and the solution be clear . liberal Democrats be therefore call for : a new property regulator , as recommend in the good report , establish a code of practice , minimum qualification and the licensing of property manager ; leaseholder to be enable to get alternative quote for maintenance ; a power for resident to act in common to take ownership of management company and common area ; the strengthening of council ' power to adopt , with resource from developer or landowner ; the urgent abolition of ground rent for exist residential lease ; and , crucially , the capping of unreasonable service and estate management charge . million of leaseholder and freeholder be wait . they have wait long enough . it be time for the Government to act and end what have become the great british property rip - off . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I start by put on record my gratitude , which I suspect echo the view of many right hon . and hon . member , to my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) for secure the debate and set out so clearly in her opening remark the significance of this issue and the corrosive impact it have on so many people . the number of speech , the tone of those speech and , sadly , the regular theme we have hear through those speech tell a really tragic and frustrating story . the experience of constituent across many different part of the country be unfortunately consistent . they be in a situation where they feel trapped , powerless and voiceless , and where the balance of power be completely unfair . and that be all wrap up in something that should be a positive experience : own a home and be able to enjoy your home and its surrounding . the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) sum it up very well as something that be mean to be a dream turn into a nightmare . that a consistent theme we have hear . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . he clearly have not just passion on this issue , but real experience of it . I also pay tribute to my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . I be strike by his confession that his normal mild mannered demeanour be sacrifice after a meeting . I know his background — I be not sure if all right hon . and hon . member know it — and I can assure the House and the management company that he be not someone they should inspire to lose his temper . today ' s debate have be hold in a very positive spirit . this be an issue , as have be evident today , that generate genuine cross - party agreement . I be proud of the fact that my party in government start the process of reform in this area . I will concede that we do not complete the process — we absolutely recognise that . a number of thing that we put in place have make a difference , but we recognise that there be more to do . I have no intention of try to play party politic on this matter . this debate have show that whether a leaseholder be live in a — currently — labour - hold constituency , a Lib Dem constituency or a conservative constituency , their pain and suffering be real , and I think we be all collectively duty bind to do something about it . that be why I encourage the Government to continue with the process of implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 and ensure that the appropriate secondary legislation be fully in place , and to do so quickly . like other , I have receive numerous piece of correspondence from people whose property be manage by FirstPort and other , and our constituent want we to get a grip of this situation . there be political and legitimate philosophical difference across this House . the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) make a great point about a by - product of what my side of the House regard as an incredibly positive move by the Thatcher Government in the ' 80 — I know that not everyone will agree that it be positive , for completely legitimate reason . one of the practical implication of that move be a mixture of ownership type within a block of property , and that have to be resolve . that resolution be not a political issue , but a practical one . find opportunity to work across the House to deliver those practical response be absolutely key . my hon . friend the Member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) recognise in his speech that there be cross - party unity and focus on this matter , and my hon . friend the Member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) make it clear that implementation be key . People do not want grandstand on this issue ; they want actual shoulder - to - the - wheel delivery . I have no doubt that I speak for all member of my party when I say that in the boring , behind - the - scene , get - stuff - do bit of this House ' s business , the Government will enjoy our support in use the legislation that we start off to bring about a well live environment for the people whom we serve . I will not detain the House much long , because the message we need to send to the people we serve be that we recognise this challenge and we recognise that the market force that provide consumer choice be not work properly in this situation . People be not able to choose between alternative provider ; the professionalism that be force on commercial organisation through the pressure of competition be not work here , which be why we be see cost that be hide , obscure and , in some instance , completely create out of thin air . that be not how a market be mean to work . there have to be government intervention in this . as a free - marketeer Conservative , that be not my default setting , but in this instance it be clearly what we have to do . I will conclude by say that when the Government take action to deliver on this matter , they can rest assure that the opposition will give they practical support and will be chivy they along at every opportunity . it be a genuine pleasure to follow that constructive speech by the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) . I congratulate the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on secure a debate on what be without question a critically important and press issue for residential freeholder and leaseholder alike across the country , and one that , as the shadow Secretary of State rightly say , enjoy significant cross - party consensus . in open the debate , the hon . Lady speak forcefully and eloquently on behalf of her constituent in Redhill and , in share their plight with the House , bring alive the financial and emotional toll that leasehold term can take on homeowner across the country . the many excellent contribution that follow from hon . and right hon . member powerfully reinforce the argument that the hon . Lady make . the case study litter across those contribution be shocking but will not have surprise anyone in this House . we all know from the work we do support leaseholder and residential freeholder in our constituency that , for far too many of they , the reality of home ownership have fall woefully short of the dream . it be precisely because this government be no long prepared to accept that situation that we be determined to honour the commitment make in our manifesto and do what be necessary to finally bring the feudal leasehold system to an end in this Parliament . I do not intend to detain the House for a huge amount of time — I know there be another debate to follow — but in the time I have available I would like to address the main issue that have be raise in the debate , start with the various problem affect homeowner on private and mixed - tenure housing estate . but , as ever , I be more than happy to meet any hon . or right hon . member who have raise an issue that I be unable to cover . as several hon . member argue in their contribution , we have see over recent year a significant shift away from a situation where local authority and utility company would generally adopt the respective amenity and public space within new residential development to one where private management arrangement take hold — a so - call fleecehold arrangement . share amenity and open space be now routinely not adopt and maintain at the public expense , and the maintenance cost fall to resident through an estate rent charge , a fee pay in addition to council tax . the estate charge also normally cover the management cost of the estate management company , although , as have be evidence in the debate , residential freeholder frequently complain that these company deliver little , if anything , beyond what a local authority would usually provide in an area where amenity would have be adopt . my Department estimate that up to 1 . 75 million home in England be locate on such private and mixed - tenure estate , although not all be subject to charge . property on these estate often have restrictive covenant register at the Land Registry . they may require homeowner to seek permission , often for a fee , from the management company for action such as sell or let their home or alter its appearance . in the bad case , resident face excessive or unjustified charge levy for minimal service . those may include fee for service normally provide by local authority , arbitrary and costly administration fee , unexplained increase in charge and fee impose during the sale of their home . I just want to add one more case study to the plethora that have already be provide today . I have a resident who have a one - bed flat who see their charge rise by thousand of pound in just a few year . that financial burden also make it even hard to sell their property . simply too many rogue developer and estate management company , as allude to , be exploit resident and demand excessive fee for maintain share and public space in development . will the Minister , as many member have call for , today commit finally to crack down on these money - grab company , cap unreasonable service and management charge , and urgently abolish ground rent on exist lease ? if the hon . Lady have be present for the debate , she would have hear extensive exchange on this subject , but I will set out what the Government intend to do to provide leaseholder and residential freeholder with redress in these area . will the Minister give way ? I win ' t . I be more than happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman about this issue , as I do on a regular basis , and pick up these exchange , but I want to make a bit of progress . lastly , the fragmentation of management on many of these estate compound the problem we experience . even on relatively new development , homeowner often have to deal with multiple management company , each levy fee in way that reduce transparency and increase the risk of exploitation . in those situation , home - owner understandably often feel mislead and trap . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not give way any far . there be another debate to follow and I will not test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be worth say that the Competition and Markets Authority publish a study of the house building industry last year . it recommend strong protection for homeowner and call for the mandatory adoption of certain amenity on new estate and , crucially , common adoptable standard for those amenity . the Government ' s response to that report accept many of its recommendation in principle , but acknowledge that further work be require . I reiterate the Government ' s firm commitment to end the injustice of fleecehold entirely . as I set out in my write ministerial statement of November 2024 , we will consult this year on legislative and policy option to reduce the prevalence of private estate management arrangement , which be the root cause of the problem experience by many residential freeholder . on that point , I say to the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) — I congratulate he on the birth of his child — that I must gently push back on his assertion that we do not need to consult . through the consultation response that we be receive on issue such as service charge protection , we be gather a huge amount of information that will allow we to implement these change effectively , to the last benefit of leaseholder . it be also vital that homebuyer understand what will happen to the estate that they be move into . the Government be currently consult on guidance to support estate agent with their legal responsibility to provide potential buyer with relevant material information during property transaction , as well as consult on what should be consider material information for buyer . the Government also want to empower home - owner who be already live on estate under these arrangement . in September this year , the Law Commission publish its 14th programme of law reform , which include a project on the management of housing estate . it will consider how resident could be give great control over the management of their housing estate . my Department be proud to be the sponsoring Department for the project . in the short term , it be imperative that we protect residential freeholder on privately manage estate from unfair charge . as hon . member will be aware , the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 contain provision for a new regulatory framework , broadly mirror the right already enjoy by leaseholder and design to give residential freeholder new consumer protection . we intend to consult again this year on how to implement those new protection to ensure that the framework be effective , but I want to assure hon . member that I be determined to bring they into force as quickly as possible . many hon . member mention service charge in a wide sense , and it be right that they champion the cause of leaseholder in their constituency . as I have make clear on many occasion in this House , this Government recognise the considerable financial strain that rise service charge place on leaseholder and tenant . I reiterate the Government ' s firm view that overcharge through service charge be completely unacceptable . in July this year we consult on the measure in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 that be design to drive up the transparency of service charge . we also consult on proposal to introduce a fair litigation cost regime , help leaseholder to challenge service charge and protect they from disproportionate legal expense . the consultation include proposal on mandate reserve fund and reform the major work process . as I have say , we have receive a huge amount of useful feedback from the consultation , which close on 26 September . I assure hon . member that the story I have hear today will inform my thinking on how the Government respond in due course . on that point , let I say briefly that I would welcome correspondence from my hon . friend the Members for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) and for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) with some further detail about why judgment of the tribunal be not be enforce in the case that they raise . before I conclude my remark , I must address the legitimate concern that have be raise in respect of the performance of manage agent , both on freehold estate and in leasehold block . we know that there be good manage agent who work hard to ensure that the resident they be responsible for be safe and secure , and that home be properly look after , but we also know that far too many leaseholder suffer from poor practice at the hand of unscrupulous manage agent . I hear so many reference to FirstPort during the debate that while I be sit on the Front Bench I ask my private office to send a request to its manage director ask that he come and meet I so that I can convey some of the concern that have be raise . manage agent play a key role in the maintenance of multi - occupancy building and freehold estate , and their importance will only increase as we transition toward commonhold , so it be essential that we strengthen their regulation to drive up the standard of their service . as hon . member will know , the previous Government commit to regulate the property agent sector in 2018 . they ask a working group , chair by Lord Best , to advise they on how to do it . yet they fail to respond to the group ' s final report , publish in July 2019 . this Government have engage seriously and constructively with the finding set out in that report , and we have already take forward a number of its recommendation . in the recent consultation on strengthen leaseholder protection from charge and service , which I reference early , we consult on power to appoint a manager or replace a manage agent , as well as on mandatory professional qualification for manage agent in England , but that be not the final step in this process , and we will set out our full position on regulation of estate , let and manage agent in due course . to conclude , I be grateful to the hon . member for Reigate for give the House an opportunity to debate these important matter , I thank all member who have participate in the debate today for share their concern and insight , and — I say this genuinely — I very much look forward to further engagement with right hon . and hon . member as the Government continue to implement the reform to the leasehold system that be already in statute , and to progress the wide set of reform necessary to end the feudal leasehold system for good in this Parliament , and not least the ambitious draft commonhold and leasehold reform Bill , which we will publish before the end of the year . I call Rebecca Paul to wind up . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for participate today . I also thank all member for leave politic at the door , on the whole . everyone recognise that there be a challenge , we all agree that that challenge be impact our constituent ' live in a detrimental way , and I think everyone come here today to try to solve that , and I thank they for that . I also thank the Minister , who have clearly listen closely to everything that be say today . I be grateful to he for take this with the seriousness that it deserve . he have already contact FirstPort — that be incredible and I thank he for it . I thank the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , for his contribution and the liberal Democrat spoke - person , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow time for this debate . I think we can all agree that it be time well spend , and I be sure that the Committee will be happy with the number of hon . member who be here to speak today . in summary , we have hear some truly astounding thing today . I be sure that we be all horrify by what some leaseholder have to endure . it be clear that some property service company be exploit leaseholder for their own benefit and profit . some do not provide a value - for - money service , do not adequately maintain communal area and be most certainly not transparent in their dealing . their action trap resident in home they can not afford and can not sell , but the law of the land currently allow those company to do that . it be a travesty and an absolute scandal . I look forward to the Minister and the Government act quickly to prevent further abuse , and I will support they and cheer they on in that . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider property service charge . ageing and end - of - life Care I beg to move , that this House have consider the age community and end of life care . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for select this subject for debate . I declare an interest as the son of Mona Shannon , who be 94 year young and reside in a nursing home near Killyleagh in my constituency . along with most other middle - aged son or daughter — in my case , maybe a wee bit more than middle - aged — I be acutely aware that time be march on and so be my mum ' s need . the wee five - foot - nothing lady who keep three six - foot son under control be no long to live alone , but she be as sharp as a tack and I be thankful for the wisdom she give I when I visit she twice weekly . indeed , I suspect that every Friday and every Sunday I get a wee bit of wisdom — and maybe a wee bit of a telling off . she always like to know what happen in this House and I be able to tell she that , but she will also give I her opinion , which I never ignore — indeed , I probably keep to it as much as I can . those visit to the nursing home , couple with the focus on assist dying , have highlight to I with great effect the change that be need in how we handle our old generation and their need . I have speak with representative of both Sue Ryder and Marie Curie not simply to highlight the difficulty that most of we will be aware of , but to offer some way that we can improve . I be pleased to see the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , in his place . he and I be become a bit of a tag team , because on three day this week he have be the Minister respond to the debate that I have be involve in . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , have be there as well , so he should not be leave out . accord to Marie Curie , in the next 25 year in Northern Ireland — I know it be not the Minister ' s responsibility , but I want to give the stat , because they be important — there will be 20 , 500 people require this type of care , which be a rise of 32 % . that include a doubling of need by those age over 85 . it be also project that the number of death in the community in Northern Ireland could rise by 74 % during that time . approximately 60 % of the cost of care deliver through the independent hospice sector in Northern Ireland be reliant on charity . that be unsustainable . a new palliative care strategy for Northern Ireland that take account of demographic change and associate requirement for service transformation and investment be urgently need . that be what be happen in Northern Ireland , and in the mainland , thing be very similar . Marie Curie have highlight that as the population age , more people will be live with and die with multiple complex condition . every week in my office , when it come to assist those of my mum ' s generation — and perhaps some of my own — with benefit , I see people with multiple complex need more than ever . it be not just one thing that people be suffer from , but a multitude of thing . by 2050 , the number of people in need of palliative and end - of - life care in the UK will rise by 147 , 000 to over 745 , 000 every year , and that increase will be drive by a growth in the number of people die over the age of 85 . these be really important stat , and we can not ignore they ; indeed , I believe the Minister will be focus on they . around 90 % of the people who die each year need palliative care , but one in four of they be miss out . old people , and particularly those with a non - cancer diagnosis , be at risk of miss out on the palliative care they need at the end of life . Research indicate that most people want to receive care at the end of their life and die at home . elderly people tell I that all the time — they want to be at home . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way ; I know he be press for time . the charity together for short life point out that where child ' s palliative care be concern , there be wide variation across different region in the country . be he afraid that this apply to the age population as well — that there be no consistency in the amount of palliative care available ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention and for the wisdom that he bring to all the debate he participate in . the Minister be listen , and he be a good Minister , so I know he will come back with the response we hope to have . how often have we listen to family member who be past themselves with exhaustion and guilt about how they be care for their love one and who feel unprepared and yet unwilling to let they go into nursing care ? with more support , their life would be easy and their love one ' s life happy . this knowledge be why I be not surprised to learn that almost £ 12 billion of public fund be spend on healthcare for people in their last year of life , 81 % of which be spend in hospital , with only 11 % spend on primary and community care . access to a 24 / 7 palliative care advice and support telephone line have be recommend as a minimum service requirement for nearly two decade , but research show that very little have happen , which underline the issue that the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) raise . only seven of the 42 integrate care board in England say they have a dedicated 24 / 7 single point of access to palliative and end - of - life care advice , guidance and onward referral to other service , when need — those be all important factor . despite the introduction of a new legal duty for icb to commission palliative care service in the Health and Care Act 2022 , the urgency and importance of ensure that everyone have the good possible care and support at the end of life have yet to be recognise as a national priority . I hope the Minister will be able to provide assurance on this , because that be what Marie Curie want , it be what Sue Ryder want , and it be what every mum , dad and family member want as well . the day I get to intervene on such an amazing member be a remarkable day . I live in a very rural area where there be place with real socioeconomic deprivation . I know for a fact that there be huge inequality in those kind of area when it come to palliative care . do he agree that the Minister and the Government need to look at how to reduce that inequality over the next 10 year ? the hon . member be absolutely right . politic aside , I want the Minister and the Government to do the job . it do not matter who the politician or the political party be ; let we just give our people some hope . that be what I wish to see come out of this . what assessment have the Government make of the need for a national strategy for palliative and end - of - life care ? how will the Government ensure that palliative care specialist be include in neighbourhood health centre ? what progress be the Government make on ensure that every person with palliative care need in the UK have access to a 24 / 7 support and advice line ? I believe that we can find a route towards an acceptable standard of life not simply for those who can afford private healthcare , but for all in our age community . I understand that the Minister have a copy of my note , and my seven point will be in there . to realise the 10 - year plan objective , which I have clearly say I support and want to see happen as soon as possible , palliative and end - of - life care must be recognise as a vital part of our health and social care system . without make palliative and end - of - life care a priority for health reform , the Government will not achieve their bold ambition to provide more care in the community . I want the Government to achieve that ambition . I speak early to the hon . Gentleman to ask if he would take an intervention . when early this year my mum be place on end - of - life care — she be put into the local hospital to receive that care — I have to repeatedly ask hospital staff to transfer she to our local , excellent Eden Valley hospice . it take three day for that request to be action . do the hon . Gentleman agree that one change we could make be that , when someone in our hospital be place on end - of - life care , their family could be immediately apprise of the alternative provision that exist in our community ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right — by the way , that be one of my seven point . we have speak , but not exactly about that . the debate bring we together with our request for the Minister and the Government ; we be thankful for that . only 38 % of those who die aged 85 or old receive care from palliative care specialist , compare with 51 . 5 % of those age 65 to 84 and 59 . 3 % of those age 18 to 64 . to the point make by the right hon . member for New Forest East , most aged 18 to 64 spend most of their final month in a private home , but few than 50 % of those age 65 or old do so . one in seven people — 15 % — who die in hospital have be in there for less than 24 hour . when someone be come to their last day , many complex need be involve — there be also the problem for the family — but they will have to deal with two thing in particular : pain , and probably breathlessness . almost two third of unpaid carer feel anxious most or all the time about the die person ' s illness or treatment . shift care from the hospital to the community would benefit old people , support the shift from hospital to community — analogue to digital — and prevent avoidable emergency care admission . those be all thing that the Government must develop in a national strategy for palliative and end - of - life care . the strategy must deliver on these seven point . first , an integrate whole - system approach be need enable patient at the end of life to move seamlessly through service as their health change . secondly , the Government must place palliative care at the centre of plan for neighbourhood health centre and ensure the inclusion of palliative care specialist . a key benefit of include palliative and end - of - life care in neighbourhood health centre will be the early identification of palliative care need and great uptake of advance care planning . thirdly , the Government implement model of emergency and urgent care that can minimise avoidable accident and emergency visit . that would provide financial saving for the NHS as well as give well care in a well system . that also come to the input of the family , which be the very thing we all wish to see . fourthly , the Government need to strengthen the statutory guidance on the legal duty to commission palliative care service in the Health and Care Act 2022 . hold integrate care board to account for the delivery of this duty must be part of that . fifthly , we must introduce national quality standard for palliative and end - of - life care that must be meet in all health and care setting . that would strengthen accountability while catalyse the 10 - year health plan ' s target shift from hospital to community for patient at the end of life . they must also support more equitable implementation of the vision set out in the ambitious national framework for local action . sixthly , there must be access to 24 / 7 support — the very thing be ask for — by create a universal gateway to 24 / 7 specialist palliative and end - of - life care advice , guidance and support through NHS 111 . in my constituency , we would say " yin , yin , yin . " seventhly , there must be a long - term , sustainable funding solution for palliative and end - of - life care that can reduce reliance on charitable fundraising and ensure parity of esteem for the NHS and non - NHS palliative care workforce . a transformation fund must also be create to invest in innovative and integrated model of care to meet different community need . the Minister be probably say , " my goodness , be it just seven point ? " , but yes , I will stop at those seven , although I would like to comment on Sue Ryder if I may . all of these stat can become figure on a page , but when I read they I think of the wee mummy lie on her bathroom floor after a fall , all night in tear ; I think of my constituent who sob in my office , beg for help with their die parent ; I think of carer who be run ragged and know that a 15 - minute call with that elderly person can not possibly cater to their hygiene need as well as feed they ; I think of district nurse who be late home because they would not leave their elderly patient upset after a wound change , and who make they a wee cup of tea and stay for that comfort chat that time have not be allocate for . Professor Jugdeep Dhesi , president of the British Geriatrics Society , say : " everyone should have access to high quality care until the end of their life , include palliative and end of life care when they need it . sadly , this be not the case for many old people across the United Kingdom . " Sue Ryder also ask I to highlight some issue . it be work to create a new ecosystem around palliative and end - of - life care , and to unlock hospital productivity through swiftly shift care to the community in a progressive way that be sensitive to the resource available across the wide system , and focus on genuine collaboration at a local , place , and system level . the envisage ecosystem would absorb patient from across the acute setting and increase referral to community setting , help our wonderful nhs to use its bed capacity more effectively , and relieve strain on the discharge system . the Sue Ryder model will shift care into the community by increase hospice - at - home service and virtual ward , fund in line with national currency and fast - track CHC reform . it be believe that this new approach to hospital care will develop dedicated care , alongside suite on NHS site to provide compassionate , tailor care for those approach the end of life , and to relieve pressure on hospital team . we must increase support for people in their own home — that be what I want , what the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) want , and probably what we be all seek . it be about expand care in the community through partnership , virtual ward , and increase hospice - at - home service to help more people die at home and reduce emergency admission . we must aim to make full use of hospice ' expertise and space to support people with complex multi - morbidity and those in the last 1 , 000 day of life , prevent emergency admission and help people to live well . I will keep to your timescale , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be come to the end . the end of life be not a happy topic , but I believe it be a necessary conversation . we must open that conversation to ensure that people feel able to record their wish for the end of life , so that more of their need be meet by the people involve in their care . we must ensure that there be information , and above all funding to deal with the grow pressure — the family issue that the hon . member for Carlisle refer to — because how we treat the most vulnerable in our society be the measure that we will all be judge by . I be no well than anybody else , but as elect representative you and I , Madam Deputy Speaker , and everyone in the Chamber want to do the good for our people . today we ask for the good for our people . I work alongside my mum to ensure that her last time on earth be the good we can make it , and I know I can safely say that it be the desire of this House and the Minister to provide that for every person in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . but we can not do it without Government buy - in , or without help from the Minister , and from the Labour Government and those in power . the hospice sector be look for a way to do thing well , so I ask the Minister to join those who know this issue inside out , and find a route to help our age community and those in end - of - life care . that be also from Marie Curie , Sue Ryder and Professor Dhesi — all those people , and all of we as mps on behalf our constituent . thank you for your time , Minister , and I look forward to your response . rise — Order . before I call the first speaker , Members will have notice that we be push - ish for time , so I ask they to keep their comment to around eight minute . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this debate , and I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests . I be an officer of the all - party group on carer , and on housing and care for old people , and I be formerly chief executive of the Centre for Ageing Better . as age be a subject close to my heart , I decide to check out my late personal life expectancy projection accord to the Office for National Statistics life expectancy calculator , and it turn out that I have a one in four chance of live to 95 . many people would think , " oh , how fantastic ! " yes , we all want to live long , but not everybody will enjoy that same life expectancy . we know that there be a significant gap — about 19 year — in life expectancy between the most and the least deprived . that gap be reflect across the country , as well as in my own constituency , between Wharfedale and Windhill and Wrose . despite the tech bros try to defy ageing and death through all sort of technique , in reality we be mortal and we will all face death at some point . More of we will die at old age because of increase life expectancy . to be honest with hon . member , death be a boom industry , and if they have not already invest in a funeral director , that might be something to look at . the post - war baby boomer be now in their 60 , 70 and head into their 80 , so more of we will be die in the come decade . society need to change in a number of way to respond to our age society . department across Government be look at relate issue , include work for long , which be a matter for the Department for Work and Pensions , and ensure that we build new home that be accessible . I will be speak to the Minister for Housing and Planning , who sum up in the previous debate , about bring in new regulation to make home more accessible . in addition , we need to reform end - of - life care . by 2050 , it be project that an additional 147 , 000 people will die per year , bring the total to 745 , 000 per year . as the hon . member for Strangford say , the people who miss out on end of life care be more likely to be old , from black and minority ethnic community , from low socioeconomic community or to have a non - cancer diagnosis . there be a lot to do to close the gap in access to palliative and end - of - life care , particularly for old people . an example of really good practice in Bradford be the REACT model — the Responsive Emergency Assessment and Community Team model . if you have not already visit , Madam Deputy Speaker , you may wish to do so . it be a partnership between the Marie Curie hospice and Bradford Royal infirmary . a palliative care doctor be embed in A & E , so when people who be at the end of life be hit the accident and emergency department , they get an intervention , assessment and referral back to a proactive multidisciplinary community - base team . the result be staggering in reduce the number of hospital bed day that people at end of life experience . as we have hear , most people do not want to die in hospital . I commend the shift that this Government be look to make from hospital to community , which I hope be as true around end - of - life care as around other service . however , there be a huge lack of consistency between integrate care board in how and what they commission . there be much to do to support well care in the community , include provide well support to GPs , particularly those with a specialist interest in end - of - life care ; have district nurse work more closely with primary care team and embed within the new neighbourhood health team ; more example of hospice at home and multidisciplinary community team ; more training for care home manager and staff ; and the innovative use of unused hospital ward to provide hospice service in hospital , where appropriate . as have be mention , we must ensure that there be a 24 / 7 hotline for patient and , importantly , for their carer , so that when they find themselves in crisis at home , they can get access to the advice that they need . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have say they should have have access to such advice since 2011 , but accord to Marie Curie , only one in three area have such a 24 / 7 hotline . while there be example of good practice , there be much to do . it be good news that more of we be live long , but society have to adapt . I be pleased that we be do thing as a government — we have a pension commission and the Casey review look at social care — but I say to the Minister : now be the time to have a national strategy for palliative and end - of - life care . we be an age society and we need that , along with reform of continue healthcare . in his response , I hope he will set out how we ensure that everybody die well in old age and have a good death . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this debate . it have be a pleasure to see his passion for his community and for the people of Northern Ireland , especially as a member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . care at the end of life and ensure dignity , compassion and community in every chapter of life be so incredibly important . I pay tribute to Weston Hospicecare , and particularly to Paul Winspear and his amazing team , who be an extraordinary example of what compassionate , community - base care can achieve . their current director of patient service , John Bailey , retire in December after 30 year of dedicated service . Paul , the chief exec , describe John as a " truly exceptional " person , and I absolutely agree . found in 1989 , Weston Hospicecare support more than 1 , 000 patient and family each year , serve a population of around 225 , 000 people from Clevedon to Burnham - on - Sea and from Cheddar to Weston - super - Mare , Worle and the village that surround my constituency . it be hard to find somebody in my town whose life have not be touch by Weston Hospicecare ' s dedicated team ; my family be no exception . Weston Hospicecare help we during some of our dark time . I have a personal mission to help safeguard the future of this important facility . its dedicated team provide in - patient , day hospice and community nursing service alongside physiotherapy , counselling and bereavement support , all free of charge . Weston Hospicecare truly embody the spirit of my home town — caring , community - minded and determine to do the right thing — but it be important to acknowledge the pressure that it face daily . Weston Hospicecare receive only around 18 % of its operating cost from the NHS , compare with a national average close to 29 % . the rest must be raise through community fundraising , shop and donation . the generosity of our community be remarkable , but it be be stretch to its limit , despite some of the most innovative approach to fundraise that I have witness . I be genuinely , truly impressed by what Weston Hospicecare have be able to achieve . over recent year , hospice funding increase have fall well behind inflation . the national living wage increase have rightly lift income , and I be entirely in favour of it , but that and other factor have increase staffing cost for many hospice . Weston Hospicecare face an annual deficit of £ 500 , 000 — roughly 10 % of its £ 6 million budget — and it have have to dip into reserve , which now stand at less than six month ' cover . for such vital service that mean so much to my community and to the community around we , we must find a well way . despite that , Weston Hospicecare continue to deliver outstanding value . it provide care for patient with complex , multi - morbid condition who would otherwise occupy hospital bed or require costly community nursing , and it be relieve pressure on the NHS in my town . Weston Hospicecare save the health system money while deliver really outstanding outcome for patient and family . the Government ' s recent £ 75 million capital investment in hospice have be so important . Weston Hospicecare have benefit from it , and be particularly grateful for it , as be I , but we all recognise that while one - off capital investment be welcome , it can not by itself secure the future . we need a sustainable commission model and fair funding for the essential , specialist care that hospice provide , while allow they to continue raise community fund for service that be so often see as optional , but which be in reality vital , such as family support , bereavement care and the holistic and therapeutic service that help people to live and die well . this issue be also about the wide fabric of our community . in coastal town such as Weston - super - Mare , where we have high proportion of old resident , few large employer and sometimes high level of isolation , hospice — in particular my hospice — be part of what hold our community together . they offer not just care and employment , but training , volunteering and opportunity for young people to build meaningful career in care . one of my good friend , John Williams , have be a carer his whole life . all too often , what I consider to be a vocation — a profession — be undervalue . that be something that we must change . when we talk about age and end - of - life care , we must see it not as a burden , but as a mark of who we be — a society that value every life at every stage , and see worth in all human life . Weston Hospicecare be a beacon of that principle , and with the right long - term funding framework , I believe it and other provider like it across the country can continue to serve our community for decade to come . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this important debate . it be well know that our population be age , with the late census show that people age 65 and over account for 19 . 1 % of the total population in Surrey . that figure be predict to increase to 25 % by 2047 . in my constituency of Epsom and Ewell , there be brilliant charity work to support the old population , include Age Concern , which empower old people to live the most fulfilling life they can while provide service , include advice , medical transport , social support and befriending . organisation such as Age Concern be a vital lifeline for many , especially follow the Conservatives ' failure to fix social care and invest in preventive measure that support old people to stay in good health . our old and ageing community also need to be able to access public service , include gp provision . accord to Age UK , the number of full - time equivalent GPs , include trainee , increase by just 2 . 5 % between 2023 and 2024 , which be not keep pace with the population growth of old people age 75 and over . many gps be head towards retirement , leave an even big gap , so the Government must go far with plan for recruitment . there need to be a concerted effort to build a strong , resilient gp workforce that prioritise retention and deliver service that stop old people from end up in hospital due to delay in primary care . along with GP provision , access to social care service be vital . with an age population , we be see more and more old and frail carer support their spouse , put a further strain on the carer ' s own health . we need to do more to support , protect and empower old people , so will the Minister commit to reverse the Conservatives ' cut to public health funding and facilitate a social care system that be accessible to old people , encourage preventive care , and tackle key issue such as loneliness and frailty ? as our population age , more people will be live with — and die with — multiple complex condition . Marie Curie report that by 2050 , the number of people in need of palliative and end - of - life care will rise to over 745 , 000 people per year , which be 147 , 000 more than at present . one local family in Epsom and Ewell have share their experience of struggle to access hospice care for a love one with a terminal illness . despite their effort , no hospice place be available , and delay in pain relief make their love one ' s final day distress , something that could have be alleviate by well funding and co - ordination of end - of - life service . funding cut and year of neglect under the previous Conservative Government have lead to reduce service , which have a direct impact on patient and their family , who deserve dignity and support in their final day . the Liberal Democrats have propose exempt health and care provider from increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution , yet the Government have ignore that proposal and have not provide much - need support to the social care sector . in a far damn development , a report release just this week by the National Audit Office reveal that nearly two third of independent hospice in England report a deficit in 2023 - 24 . as a result , service have be slash and hospice have be force to cut the number of bed available , due to a lack of government funding . with hospice and care service under strain , people desperately need support , and family often have no place to turn . there have be a number of successful and ongoing pilot by local NHS trust of dedicated phone line for palliative and end - of - life care need . the Thames Valley pilot advice line lead to a reduction in ambulance conveyance , a 35 % reduction in referral to out - of - hour primary care , and a fourfold increase in call close with no further intervention require . nhs 111 be a brilliant service , but it be not always appropriate . access to a specialised palliative care expert can alleviate patient anxiety , streamline support and facilitate well care . that be something that I urge the Minister to investigate . will the Minister commit to end the postcode lottery of funding for palliative care , create a dedicated hospice workforce plan , expand carer ' s allowance , and provide guarantee respite care before end - of - life care eligibility begin ? as we manage the age population and navigate end - of - life care , this Government must put patient first and prevent a devastating erosion of public service , tackle dangerous understaffing , and support people to age well in their community . I call the shadow Minister . I yet again thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . he should be proud of Mona Shannon , and she will be proud of he not just for raise this topic today , but for all the work he do across this House talk about health , because he be assiduous and dedicated to timely health intervention , and that should be applaud across the House and this nation . I be indebted to he for secure this debate . in the hon . member ' s speech , he mention who he have speak to . I , too , have meet the organisation Sue Ryder and Marie Curie , include at party conference , and I have meet many other organisation , include loros and Rainbows , that cover my area . when I see the title " Ageing Community " for this debate , I must admit that I think the hon . Member should have apply for a five - day debate , consider what we could cover . I also notice the expertise in this debate . we have a secondary care surgeon , someone with public health experience at the back and I as a gp . it be turn into a multidisciplinary team , and there be a lot to unpack , whether it be prevention , mitigation , healthy lifestyle or look at the good example across the world . I recently travel to Japan and Korea and see how they look after their elderly and their approach to the lifestyle of the elderly . there be a lot to be learn out there , as across the world we all grapple with an age population . there be other topic that we could talk about , and some be touch on . on social care , it be a shame that there have be a change from cross - party talk to an independent commission . I note that Baroness Casey be be take back to the Home Office , which mean she be spread thinly . there be a wide debate to be have on social care , which be : what do the british public actually want ? often we look at the scandinavian model , but say that we do not want to pay the taxis for it . we want the household or family approach , like the Bangladeshi or pakistani model , but we certainly do not actually want grandma or grandpa come to stay with we and we want to stay work . therein lie the problem in british culture . we be not 100 % sure what we want when we cross over from the NHS into social care , and we be not sure how to provide it . some hard evidence of policy on an age community have be talk about , and unfortunately I have to raise the issue of winter fuel . in the Government ' s analysis when they take away winter fuel payment — despite all the warning — they know that it would put 50 , 000 people into absolute poverty and 100 , 000 people into relative poverty . we can contrast that with the Opposition and our recent announcement on stamp duty . Jackson - Stops estimate that in the first year alone , up to 500 , 000 people above the age of 55 would consider downsize because of that policy . I do not call that downsize , as we hear in the debate on stamp duty — it be right - sizing , because it give a real chance not only for more family to go upwards , but for people to move into more appropriate accommodation as they age . there be a lot to be say in the debate about an age population , as the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) point out , but I will focus my comment on the three question that I think I catch from the hon . member for Strangford : the assessment of the need for a national strategy for palliative care ; what the Government be do to ensure that palliative care be include in neighbourhood health centre ; and the progress be make on 24 - hour support . I will start with the national strategy and funding , and let we give credit to the Government where it be due . when it come to child ' s hospice funding , they have continue the payment and extend it , which be welcome , although it do not offer enough mitigation for national insurance contribution . the Government will say that when it come to adult funding , they have give £ 100 million . that be capital funding , though , and as one hospice worker put it to I , there be no point in have new curtain and a lick of paint if there be no staff . as the Liberal Democrats point out , the National Audit Office report on the hospice sector that come out only yesterday state : " dhsc and NHS England do not know what proportion of the total amount of palliative and end - of - life care provide in England be deliver by the independent adult hospice sector , and therefore how reliant they be on the sector " , or what the real impact of government funding be . it continue : " in 2024 - 25 , 11 independent adult hospice in England report service reduction or staff redundancy , and other hospice announce plan to reduce service , in response to reduce income or increase cost . cut appear to be across all type of service offer by hospice . Most hospice report the increase in the cost of service delivery within the palliative and end - of - life care sector as be the primary reason for service reduction … six hospice have be designate by icb as ' commissioner request service ' , a mechanism to forewarn icb of potential difficulty with service that , should they discontinue , would have significant impact on the local population " . Hospice UK respond to that , say : " unfortunately the whole hospice sector be … struggle , just as demand for their service be rise . surge cost mean 2 in 5 english hospice be plan cut this year , and 20 % end last year with a deficit of over £ 1 m . " what do that actually look like in real life ? in my area , LOROS be face a deficit of £ 2 million . it have already have to reduce its in - patient capacity from 31 to 20 bed , and it be reduce its day therapy and cut its physiotherapy , occupational therapy , social work , chaplaincy and complementary therapy , and close the volunteer home - visit service . it be not just my region that be affect : a cursory look at Hansard will show that the Kirkwood hospice in Kirklees have make 19 redundancy ; the ashgate hospice in Derbyshire have 52 job at risk , with bed cut from 21 to 15 ; St Catherine ' s hospice in West Sussex be look at 40 job cut , with half of its new room be mothball ; Weston Hospicecare — highlight both here today by the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , and by other , include my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) at other time — face an increase national insurance bill of £ 139 , 000 ; the Arthur Rank hospice in Cambridgeshire be lose £ 829 , 000 , which be force the closure of nine bed , 40 % of its capacity ; and Marie Curie have point out that its national insurance contribution cost have rise by £ 2 . 9 million . through all this , we have still never hear whether the Health team know that this be go to happen and choose to push it through , or whether it be simply an oversight when it come to challenge the Treasury . ever since the Budget , we have never hear an answer to that . at the time of the Budget , the ceo of Marie Curie , Matthew Reed , say : " the Health Secretary himself have acknowledge that palliative and end of life care be not good enough , so we be shock by the lack of measure in the budget to fix it . palliative care need be project to rise by 25 % over the next 25 year , around 147 , 000 more people each year , yet this government lack a strategy to tackle the magnitude of this challenge . " have the Government make an assessment of how much the NICs increase have impact the hospice sector ? as have be mention , together for short life estimate that the average hospice be face a bill of about £ 133 , 000 . I raise a lot of these question in a debate in January , and the Minister for Care kindly write to I in response . it be not just about the financial side ; we be look at the structural aspect too . he write : " as you be aware , integrate care board … be responsible for the commissioning of palliative and end - of - life care service to meet the need of their local population . to support icb in this duty , NHS England have publish statutory guidance and service specification . in addition , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence … have publish quality standard and guideline to support commissioner to carry out this duty . while the NICE guideline be not legally binding , they act as a regulatory benchmark for good practice in palliative and end - of - life care … whilst the majority of palliative and end - of - life care be provide by NHS staff and service , we recognise the vital part that voluntary sector organisation , include hospice , also play in provide support to people at the end of life and their loved one . " so there be a grey area about where hospice be cover , and that fit in with the NAO report . as the hon . Member rightly say , icb be under a legal duty to commission palliative care service . do he not recognise that the problem we be have , not just with hospice care but with the lack of availability of palliative and end - of - life care , often come down to poor commissioning — icb fail to commission in line with that statutory guidance — and the confusion that arise between charitable donation and that which should be commission by the NHS ? the hon . Lady be spot on ; that be exactly the point that I be get at . while there be a legal duty in term of palliation , what that palliation look like be important . her question be also raise by the hon . member for Strangford , who ask whether it be now time to have a strategy dedicate to palliative care , give the rise in demand . the letter go on to say : " charitable hospice be autonomous organisation that provide a range of service that go beyond that which statutory service be legally require to provide . consequently , the funding arrangement reflect this . " we be in a grey area , and a palliative care strategy could well be a way to unlock this problem . I will be interested to hear what the Government have to say on this issue . however , it be not just about finance and commission ; it be also about the workforce . that be partly address in the letter : " as set out above , we have commit to develop a ten - year plan to deliver an NHS fit for the future . this summer , we will publish a refresh NHS long - term workforce plan to deliver the transform health service we will build over the next decade so that patient can be treat on time again . " by my calculation , we be come up to Halloween and even bonfire night , and we still have not see a workforce plan . my question to the Government be : when be we likely to see that ? that lead I on to my next point : how do the Government intend to ensure that palliative care specialist be include in neighbourhood health centre ? the 10 - year plan be laudable , and I think there be agreement across the political spectrum on its content , but the one thing it be miss be a delivery chapter . how be we go to do it ? the shift be correct , but we do not know how we be go to get there , so I would be grateful if the Minister could address that . the 10 - year plan explicitly talk about public - private partnership , and there be concern on both side of the House that we could see PFI mark 2 . if member need to have their memory jogged , private finance initiative bring in £ 13 billion to build hospital and service , but at a cost of £ 80 billion to taxpayer . why do this all matter ? in my last few moment , I will turn to the final question that be pose by the hon . member for Strangford , which be about access to 24 - hour support . I will quickly read out a couple of comment from one of my constituent , whose husband Mat sadly pass away from a brain tumour . she highlight this issue : " during the day , the support be outstanding because I could call the community nurse and the palliative nurse , and they would always call I straight back . they would visit Mat daily to administer the medication need in his syringe driver . they be kind , caring and so supportive to we and our family . the night time be different and frightening . often during the night when I be try to get support , he could see how scared and stress I be , which make he more scared , often tell I he be okay just to try and not make I worry . every night I use to be think what might happen tonight — will Mat have another seizure ? will he be in so much pain again ? will they call I back if I need support ? how long will it take to get help to arrive ? " Marie Curie point out that only seven of the 42 icb in England have a single point of access . I raise this issue with the Minister in a letter in August , and he kindly respond in September . he point out that integrate care board must commission on this basis . there be nice guidance on " end of life care for adult " , under quality standard 13 , and on " end of life care for adult : service delivery " , under nice guideline 142 , which talk about the fact that there should be some form of 24 - hour care , but at no point do the letter address the issue of the phoneline . when I ask the Department about datum , I be tell in a letter : " regard datum about palliative care helpline , such as average waiting / response time , the Department do not collect or hold this information . " will the Minister look at that and consider whether the Department should hold such information ? the letter go on to say : " we recognise that more could be do to support the palliative and end - of - life care sector . I have tasked official within the Department and at NHS England to look at how improve the access , quality and sustainability of all - age palliative and end - of - life care to ensure that their proposal be in line with the ten - year plan . " I would be grateful if the Minister could ask the Minister responsible whether there be indeed an update and what that look like . at the end of the day , we be concerned not necessarily about input , but much more about output . we know that death be certain for we all ; only our willingness to face it seem optional . this be very much a british mentality , and I believe we need to change that when it come to talk about death and our mortality . we need to speak more openly and candidly about what an age population look like , for that be what we be . that be why the hon . member for Strangford bring forward this debate , and he remind we that we chase the day ahead while never quite notice how swiftly they turn into year behind we . that lead I to reflect on the fact that , as politician and as a society , we build a world to live long , yet we all too easily forget to ask : how do we want to grow old ? I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for bring forward this debate . the range of topic about which he be knowledgeable never cease to surprise I . we be grateful for his contribution to this House , and I wish his mother well . I be also grateful for the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) . she be too modest to say so , but she be indeed an expert in social care and ageing , and her call for a national strategy for end - of - life care and ageing have be hear . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) for share her powerful story about her mother — that can not have be easy , so I be grateful for her bravery . like my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , I pay tribute to the hospice in Weston and the dedicated team there . I will be happy to pass on any correspondence require regard the issue that the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) highlight about the 111 service . the planning , funding and delivery of health service be devolve matter , but I be delighted to answer on behalf of the Government on what we be do to improve palliative care and end - of - life care in England . I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those who work and volunteer in palliative care , both in the NHS and in our hospice sector , for the support they provide to patient , family and love one . it would be remiss of I not to mention the Prince & Princess of Wales hospice in my own constituency , which recently take such good care of my cousin as she pass away from breast cancer . this Government want a society in which every person receive high - quality , compassionate care from diagnosis through to the end of their life , irrespective of their age , condition or geographical region . as the hon . member for Strangford have adumbrate , end - of - life care and palliative care be much more than cancer care ; it be about age and age well . we recognise that there be currently a high number of hospital admission and bed day at the end of people ' s life , and the last year of people ' s live account for 15 % of emergency admission and approximately a third of all bed day . I be passionate about ensure that old people in medical setting be not subject to coercion over their medical decision . I have recently be contact by a whistleblower from the Jehovah ' s witness , who have express concern that some of the religious assistant who come in to support patient with their decision be actually coerce they . will he offer any thought , more broadly , on how we can ensure that people be not be subject to coercion in old care setting ? I be very concerned to hear what my hon . friend have report to the House . clearly , coercion be unacceptable in all form . safeguarding be take very seriously by the national health service and by the Department of Health and Social Care , and as the Minister with responsibility for patient safety , I be very happy to look into that far and to take it up with he after the debate . as set out in the 10 - year health plan , we be go to shift more care out of hospital and into community , and make care more personalised . if there be anywhere where that be most important it be palliative care and end - of - life care . palliative care and end - of - life care , include hospice , have a big role to play in that shift , and they be highlight in the 10 - year plan as an integral component of neighbourhood health team . in England , integrate care board be responsible for the commissioning of palliative care and end - of - life care to meet the need of the local population . to support icb in this duty , NHS England have produce statutory guidance . that include the need for 24 / 7 access to palliative care and advice , and a palliative care and end - of - life care dashboard that bring together all relevant datum in one place . the dashboard help commissioner understand the palliative care need of the local population . of course , the majority of palliative care and end - of - life care be provide by NHS staff and NHS service , and that have benefit from the record funding in the nhs that the Chancellor deliver in the last Budget . I will not be able to address all the point make by the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , as he be in a typically verbose mood , but if he will the end , he must will the mean , and if he do not agree with the mean , he must present his thesis as to the alternative model of funding that he wish to see . otherwise , it be a case of cut service . however , we recognise the vital part that voluntary sector organisation , include hospice , play in provide support to people at the end of their life and to their love one . in recognition of that , £ 100 million of capital funding have be make available to hospice in England to ensure that they have the good physical environment for care . that include help hospice to provide the good end - of - life care to patient and their family in a supportive and dignified environment . it include funding to deliver IT system and provide refurbishment and facility for patient and visitor , so that they can see their family member at the end of their life in a dignified environment — much more than just a lick of paint . give the recent National Audit Office report and the fact that the tax increase to national insurance contribution have have the big impact on the voluntary sector , have an impact assessment be carry out into how much the cost have go up for hospice in England to provide their service ? if not , will the Minister consider it ? the hon . Gentleman know that the NAO report cover a period both when his party be in government and beyond . I go back to the point about nic . if he will the end , he must understand the mean . I be very happy to have that conversation with he at length after the debate , respect the confine of the time that I have — I do not want to test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be delighted that the first £ 25 million of the £ 100 million fund have be pass to Hospice UK and have be spend on capital project already . the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , visit Katharine House hospice early this year , Wigan and Leigh hospice in July , and Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice early this month to see directly for himself how that record investment be make a meaningful impact on the ground . we can confirm that the Department of Health and Social Care have now transfer the rest of the £ 75 million to Hospice UK for onward spending in 2025 - 26 . we be also provide £ 26 million of revenue funding to support child and young people ' s hospice . this be a continuation of the funding that , up until recently , be know as the child ' s hospice grant . that funding will see circa £ 26 million allocate to child and young people ' s hospice in England each year via local integrate care board on behalf of NHS England . this amount in total to £ 80 million of hospice funding over the next three year . for many of we who be in good health , manage complexity and ageing seem a distant idea . the Government recognise that the number of people with palliative care and ageing need be project to rise significantly over the next quarter of a century . that be why we be shift more healthcare out of hospital and into community through our plan for change . that be why we be invest , through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , over £ 3 million in a policy research unit in palliative and end - of - life care . the unit launch in January 2024 and be build the evidence base on palliative care and end - of - life care . early this year the Minister of State for Care and , more recently , the Secretary of State meet key palliative care and end - of - life care and hospice stakeholder at dedicated roundtable , and focus that discussion on long - term sector sustainability within the context of the 10 - year plan . follow the recent publication of the plan , the Minister of State for Care tasked official to work at speed to generate proposal to improve the access , quality and sustainability of all - age palliative care and end - of - life care as we start to implement the plan . in closing , I hope that those measure assure the hon . member for Strangford of the Government ' s seriousness to build a sustainable palliative care and end - of - life care sector for the long term . will the Minister give way ? I will not , in the interest of time . I reiterate my thank to the hon . member for Strangford for bring forward this vital issue , and I thank all hon . member who have speak today . he can be assure that he have raise the voice of those who deserve dignity at the end of their life , and that his call have be well and truly hear by the Government . I thank all member who have take part in the debate , include the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , and the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) and for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) bring her knowledge to the Chamber , as do the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) and I thank he for that . it be good news that we be live long , but there be a cost factor and we understand that . the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare refer to hospice hold the community together , and he be absolutely right . they be always there and always available , and it be good to have that . the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) remind we that there be well care in our latter day , and that be what we all need to see . I be very pleased , as always , to see the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , in his place . I always look forward to the contribution he make in debate and enjoy his company . he speak about cut across all hospice service and the impact of that , which can not be ignore . he make a comment about how end - of - life care be provide in Japan . there be lesson we can learn from other country , which be an important point that I have not think of . I thank the Minister for his positive , heartfelt and honest response . he refer to money in his speech — some £ 100 million for hospice and some £ 26 million for child ' s hospice , which the right hon . member for New Forest East also mention . we be see palliative care and end - of - life care be central to the Government ' s 10 - year plan . not one of we in this Chamber will not welcome that plan ; if it bring forward what our people want , it be the right plan . with that in mind , I thank the Minister and I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your patience . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the age community and end of life care . GP Services : Melton and Syston Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker , and through you I thank Mr Speaker for grant this important Adjournment debate . I congratulate the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , on his well - deserve promotion to ministerial office — it be in very short order , but it be very well deserved . I thank he for be present to respond to this debate tonight , because he have , as I have just indicate , a rather long journey home to his constituency than I do back to Leicestershire . at the outset of this debate , I should put on the record that I be , of course , register as a patient at one of the NHS gp practice in my constituency , which I may refer to in the course of this debate . as every Member of this House will recognise , general practice be in many way the gateway to the NHS for our constituent . it have the potential to do a huge amount more . sadly , on some occasion the gateway to NHS service for our constituent be simply to go to A & E , rather than seek to go to their general practitioner , or indeed rather than use — to the extent that it have the potential to be use — pharmacy as a first port of call , as people can see a pharmacist for some advice in the first instance . for the vast majority of people , though , it be the GP practice that be the route into the NHS and where people go when they be concerned about their health . I be sure that all member of the House would recognise the challenge and pressure face by general practice irrespective of Government in recent year . there be a number of factor behind that . we should not forget the impact of the pandemic , with the change pattern of attendance that follow it and the increase demand that come immediately after it . we be also see the consequence of an age population in our country , with people live long with more chronic condition . we also see the increase pressure in many of our community , irrespective of where they be in the country , that arise from increase in housing development that be not meet with increase in the provision of key local infrastructure . this have be especially true in recent year in my constituency , where we have see huge increase local development without that infrastructure . there be also the prospect of significantly more development . I be go to talk primarily today about the particular issue in Melton Mowbray and the surround village , as I have indicate to the Minister , as I be keen that he be able to give a pragmatic and helpful response for my constituent . I will also touch on some broad theme and on the provision of general practice in the village of Sileby in my constituency , which also face pressure and challenge . I find in my constituency , and I think the right hon . Gentleman will find the same , that the extra responsibility of fill in form , such as for personal independence payment , universal credit , employment and support allowance and disability living allowance , fall on the GP . have he find that provide the evidence for those benefit add even more to the already large workload of GPs ? motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) the hon . Gentleman be right . although I spend two and a half year as a Minister in the Department of Health and Social Care , I be never the Minister for Primary Care , but I be very much aware , as I suspect member across the House be , that that be an additional pressure on time for general practitioner . we in government seek to do what we could to reduce that , and to be fair to the new Government , I know the Secretary of State be actively look at what can be do to far streamline administrative process to allow general practitioner and their team to spend more time with patient . although my focus be on GP service in Melton Mowbray and Sileby , it be true that all GP surgery in my area — whether that be the County practice and Jubilee medical practice in Syston , or practice in Thurmaston , Bottesford , Long Clawson and other nearby village — continue to face huge pressure . it be important to say that these practice really do their good . their staff — not just the GPs , but the whole team — work incredibly hard , and I know they care deeply about the service they provide to their patient . in Melton Mowbray especially , they see acute pressure , particularly on appointment : we have just one gp practice for a grow town . Latham House medical practice have over 36 , 000 patient on its book , make it one of the large in the country . timely access to GP appointment be one of the large regular issue to appear in my constituency inbox , with wait — accord to the correspondence I receive — of at least six week , and it can be eight or 10 week before an appointment be available . clearly , that be not right . it be important to say , to be fair to Latham House medical practice , that when my constituent get to see either a nurse , an allied health professional or a gp , they regularly cite in their email the quality of the care and the kindness show by the staff . indeed , we recently see a Cavell star award give to Debra Gilbert , one of the nurse at the practice , so the team there work hard and be passionate about what they do . in 2024 , they see an average of 6 , 900 appointment per 1 , 000 of the population on their list . that be high than the national average , but I would urge a little caution because that be a crude statistic that do not necessarily comparatively reflect the different demographic of different area , such as whether an old population or deprivation in an area lead to a high need . it be important to put on the record that they be do what they can to try to improve access , but clearly , an increase in provision be need locally . back in 2021 , the then clinical commissioning group agree that it recognise the need for increase provision of GP service in Melton Mowbray . in 2023 , the integrate care board continue with that and agree to explore a second gp practice , recognise the need for it . I believe that be a sensible decision by the ICB , but regrettably , just a few week ago in early October , it announce that it be pause its work to develop such a plan until 2027 . I have be around the Department of Health and Social Care and work with the NHS long enough to know what a pause , sadly , all too often mean . in Melton Mowbray , we have see a pause of six month at the St Mary ' s birth centre — a midwifery - lead unit — to allow for staffing shortage to be address . four month into that pause , we have yet to see any suggestion of how it might be bring to an end . when I hear the word " pause " , I fear that will run on into something more permanent . this issue , which be hugely important to my constituent , have be cover extensively and powerfully in the local medium — in particular by the excellent local paper , the Melton Times . it be important to say that I be conscious that neither I , as a Member of Parliament , nor Melton borough council — which be equally keen for increase provision and with which I have speak — or indeed the Minister himself have the power to simply overrule a decision take by an integrate care board in a local matter such as this . I take through the 2022 Act , so I have a vague recollection of how that work . that remain a deeply disappointing decision , and , I believe , the wrong one . the value of access to general practice , and the impact that a lack of access have , be writ large . early today , I have one of my regular catch - up with Councillor Ronan Browne , the leader of the opposition on Melton borough council , who do a lot to get we to the point where we be hopeful of see a second gp practice . he set out his deep disappointment about this decision . there be a clear remain need . the ICB , in its announcement on reach its decision , state that the section 106 payment on which it be aim to base the provision of capital for the new building be now insufficient . it also state that slow growth in new registration , and slow population growth than have be anticipate , be relevant to its decision making . however , that do not help my constituent . I be conscious of the challenge of funding building . as the Minister and I have discuss , in a sense — ironic though it may sound — find money for a building be sometimes easy than the second part of the equation , which be secure the staff , and manage the oncost to fund that . I should say that I be grateful to the ICB for its engagement and to Toby Sanders , its chief executive , for his open engagement with I . as I say , he have emphasise that he believe that section 106 payment be not enough , and the ICB have say that it have no fund to backfill that or pay for anything from its own fund . it be important to remember that , as the Minister will be aware , general practitioner and general practice be , in many way , private business contract to provide service to the NHS , but they be not direct employee of the NHS , so they can not be directly instruct by the Minister , by icb or by NHS England — it be important to put that context on the record . in respect of the argument by the ICB that there be insufficient increase in new registration and new patient to justify a second GP practice at this time — note the pause — I be afraid that that fail to reflect the importance of choice for patient in switch to a different service in their locality if they so wish , and , in so do , potentially ease pressure on the exist practice ' s list . pause without a clear alternative long - term plan be simply not good enough . Latham House surgery have recently announce that it have take step to help to address this in the short term . on 15 October , it announce that it be recruit an extra five gps and additional nursing staff , that its Asfordby satellite surgery would be open full - time in the future , and that it be look to create new provision in a small premise on Sherrard Street in the town . those be welcome step for which I be grateful , and I look forward to hear more about those proposal from the practice , but they do not alter my view on the long - term need of Melton Mowbray and the surround village . the ICB need to act and be support in do so by the Department of Health and Social Care . it be true to say as well that icb face real challenge , include the Government require they to force cut in staff and to restructure , but without seemingly provide they with additional ringfenced funding for the cost of that restructuring , be they redundancie or otherwise . that mean that regardless of whether the end be a good one — that is , a lean ICB — icb will potentially have to cut from the frontline in the short to medium term to fund that restructuring . as I have allude to , there be also the challenge of oncost and funding GPs to staff a surgery . GPs have a choice as to where they choose to work , and I suspect the old Carr - Hill formula , which the Minister and I have speak about in the past , do not aid that . it be a challenge that government of all complexion have face and I hope that he , if he be willing , will take on the challenge of look at the Carr - Hill formula . he will have my constructive support in do so . Latham House practice have cite the challenge in securing and retain staff so I recognise that , but again , those be challenge for the Government and the ICB to assist and support with and not one that should be bear , as a consequence , by my constituent . I will briefly mention Sileby , another village in my constituency . it have two good gp practice , but it be a rapidly grow village , and large premise be need . again , the ICB have indicate that it will not have fund to fund or support that and once again , section 106 money be likely to be insufficient . it be a real challenge face by GP practice up and down the country as to how they take that step , often have to accept more patient as house be build . even when there be a section 106 payment , it be only trigger later in the process once they have already have to absorb an increase in patient . I hope that the Minister might look at that . although I recognise and welcome Latham House ' s action and hard work and I hope that deliver result , I fear it simply be not enough to tackle the long - term need . the Secretary of State ' s new neighbourhood health centre programme may well help we in the long term . for example , one of those could be allocate to Melton Mowbray , which already have Melton Mowbray hospital — in my view an underused and therefore perfect site , and the Minister can take that as a potential early bid for such a centre . that may help in the long term , but we still need action now for my constituent to improve access and to build for the long term . I be sure the Minister will know that Melton Mowbray and the surround village and town be fantastic place with a real sense of community , a proud history , a great present and huge future potential , just like the other part of my constituency . Melton Mowbray ' s resident be good , decent people who need , and frankly deserve , improve access to GP appointment and an increase focus on tackle this for their community . will the Minister set out what step the Government be take in partnership with icb to help address increase need for access to GP appointment , both nationally and locally ? be he willing to take on the challenge of look at the Carr - Hill formula and how GPs be fund per patient for their activity ? will he reassure icb that all restructure cost , over and above their current budget , will be centrally fund to avoid they cut frontline service ? will he work for well link between section 106 money and the need of healthcare provision locally ? will he meet I , ideally in Melton Mowbray — he be very welcome — to discuss what can be do locally to improve gp provision ? I genuinely hope that he share my view that Melton Mowbray and the nearby village not only need further enhancement to exist service , which Latham House be try to put in place , but genuinely need that second GP practice to meet their future need . I will continue to campaign on behalf of my constituent for that , but I will also , as I hope he have see in the brief time we have know each other , be willing to work with the NHS and with any political party that help facilitate that locally and nationally . finally , will he agree to work with I and my constituent to deliver the improved premise and service need to meet the current and future primary care need of my fantastic constituent in Melton Mowbray and the surround village ? I thank the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) for raise the crucial issue of GP provision . as a relatively junior Member of this place , I have always look around at the Benches on both side of the House for eld statesman and woman who be exemplar of how to conduct oneself in this Chamber . he be certainly one of those member . we miss he on the Front Bench , and we be grateful for all his contribution . I be grateful to the Minister for that . the only point I would make be that when , at the age of 47 , one be describe as an eld statesman , one can see retirement loom . I want to reassure he that I have no intention of retire or step back from my duty in this House . as a medical practitioner , I can assure the right hon . member that he be age well , and I be sure he have many more year of service to give . I will now take on some of the challenge that the right hon . Member say face GP service in Melton Mowbray and Syston . he be knowledgeable — possibly more knowledgeable than I — about the Carr - Hill formula . I can assure he that my hon . friend the Minister for Care , whose portfolio this come under , be very engaged in reform the Carr - Hill formula . I be sure he would be pleased to give an update on how he be get on with that . the right hon . member wish for a meeting with the Minister of State , and I would be delighted to arrange that for he — I be afraid I can not confirm the location , but I can certainly arrange the meeting . when ask about their top priority for the NHS , the public overwhelmingly call for we to fix general practice and access to it . that be at the heart of what people care about in this country , and it be what they need first and foremost from their health service . general practice remain the front door to our NHS , deliver vital care to million across this country , yet we all know the challenge face by both patient and GPs — the right hon . Member allude to many of they in his excellent speech : access to appointment , capacity and workforce pressure , to name but a few . the Government be absolutely committed to tackle these issue , to ensure that everyone receive the care they deserve . on the subject of capacity , one of the big concern that be raise with I when new house be propose for a particular area of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme be access to appointment in the future . can the Minister reassure I and my resident that discussion take place between his Department and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government on forecast future appointment , to ensure that everyone get the support that they require ? that relate to the point make by the right hon . member for Melton and Syston about section 106 funding . it would definitely be in the spirit of mission - drive government to work collaboratively across Departments — in this case , the Department of Health and Social Care and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government — to ensure that , as we build the million of home that we wish to in the lifetime of this Parliament , we do not neglect the service require to make those home happy and fulfil for the community who live in they . timely access to GP appointment be at the heart of a strong and responsive healthcare system . to deliver more appointment , we must have more gps . that be why , in October 2024 , we take decisive action , invest £ 160 million in the additional role reimbursement scheme , or arrs . this target funding have enable the recruitment of over 2 , 500 new GPs across England , directly increase appointment availability and improve care for thousand of patient . our new £ 102 million primary care utilisation and modernisation fund will create additional clinical space in over 1 , 000 gp practice . that will enable they to deliver over 8 . 3 million more appointment , far expand appointment capacity and enhance patient care . in our newly publish medium - term planning framework , we have also set an ambitious new target for practice to deliver all urgent appointment on the same day , help to ensure that patient who need urgent care will be prioritise . this Government have invest an additional £ 1 . 1 billion in general practice — the large such investment in over a decade . this 8 . 9 % boost to GP contract funding for 2025 - 26 surpass the overall NHS budget growth , mark a generational uplift in funding , and it mean that we be begin to reverse a decade of a dwindle share of NHS resource go to general practice . we be not just invest but reform contract , give GPs streamline target , incentivise improve continuity of care for those who would most benefit — usually people with chronic illness — and , crucially , require practice to make it possible for patient to go online to request an appointment throughout the duration of core opening hour . that will also free up time for patient who might require an in - person visit or a phone call . I turn to the GP - patient ratio in Melton and Syston . as a result of our investment , primary care network in Melton and Syston have recruit an additional 64 gps through the additional role reimbursement scheme , bring patient in the right hon . member ' s constituency the care they need . today , the median number of doctor in general practice per 10 , 000 register patient in Melton and Syston be 6 . 2 full - time equivalent , which be above the England median of 5 . 6 full - time equivalent . I reassure the House that we be listen to patient in the right hon . member ' s constituency and try our good to respond to their need . for the first time , more patient be contact their gp online than by phone . that be why , from 1 October , we extend access to GP online service throughout core hour — 8 be to 6 . 30 pm — make it easy for patient to reach their practice in their preferred way . that be a huge step in deliver our manifesto commitment to end the 8 am scramble , which have long be a barrier to care up and down the country . most importantly , practice already use online system have go on to see big improvement . if I may talk about London for a moment , one London GP surgery reduce its wait from 14 day to just three , with 95 % of patient see within a week . I turn to digital health , which be transform access in healthcare in Melton and Syston . patient can now access their gp through the NHS app . they can use it to book appointment , order prescription and even receive rapid online consultation , with AI - support triage ensure that urgent case be prioritise within hour . the GP patient survey show that in the right hon . member ' s integrate care board area of Leicester , Leicestershire , and Rutland , the percentage of patient use online GP service have increase from 65 % to 73 % over the past year . the ICB operate virtual ward as part of its " home first " strategy . it use secure remote monitoring , which save 11 , 000 bed day across Leicestershire in 2024 and enable patient in Melton and Syston to recover safely at home . the Government have approve a spending review settlement that will bring care close to the community , shift the NHS from sickness to prevention and from analogue to digital , and ensure that the NHS be more people - centre . we will provide additional funding by 2028 - 29 to bring back the family doctor by train thousand more gps , deliver million of appointment more over the spending review period , and build far on the 2 , 500 GPs already recruit . patient satisfaction need to be our guide star . as a result of all our effort , 8 million more appointment have be deliver this year compare to last , and it be make a difference to patient ' live . accord to the late health insight survey , 73 . 1 % of patient report a good overall experience . that be up from 67 . 4 % in July 2024 , and reverse year of patient dissatisfaction . I understand that the development of a new primary care facility in the right hon . member ' s constituency have be a matter of local concern for some time . I be grateful to he for bring it to the Government ' s attention . I have be inform that Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland ICB be work with Melton borough council to explore option to improve access and extend service capacity for Melton resident . I very much take on his suggestion that it could be a location for a health centre under the Secretary of State ' s new programme of neighbourhood health centre ; I will certainly pass that on to the Secretary of State . the ICB be work with Latham House to increase the way in which the practice can support local resident . proposal include a new digital suite at the main site , and an approve redevelopment of a property own by the practice on Sherrard Street to extend clinical service . the ICB and Melton borough council will continue to meet to discuss progress . the ICB will revisit the scheme ' s progression in the fourth quarter of 2026 - 27 to allow more certainty about developer contribution , the impact of new registration and staff availability . let I talk briefly about industrial action . the Government be firmly committed to support general practice , and we want to continue engage constructively with colleague in the profession as we shape the future of general practice together . since come into office just over a year ago , this Government have make significant stride in support general practice , and we be ask our colleague in general practice not to close the door on patient , but to work with the Government to rebuild the NHS for the benefit of patient in the right hon . member ' s constituency , and indeed the country . in conclusion , everything that this Government have do since the election have be gear towards save the NHS and give it back to the people , primarily through the lens of community and largely through general practice . we be place power back into the hand of patient — where it rightly belong — because this be their health service and it must work for they . ensure that every patient have access to the care they need be not just a priority ; it be a guide star for this Government . the Government be commit to deliver on that promise . I end by associate myself with the remark of the right hon . member about the hard - work staff in GP practice up and down our constituency , and the quality of care that they provide . I know how hard it be to work in difficult circumstance , and it be this Government ' s job to make the work life of those staff easy , more valuable and more fulfilling . I look forward to work constructively with the right hon . member , to the benefit of patient and citizen up and down Melton and Syston . question put and agree to . House adjourn .