Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — NHS Treatment Waiting Times what step her Department be take to reduce waiting time for NHS treatment . Happy St George ' s day , Mr Speaker . cut waiting list be one of the Prime Minister ' s top priority . we be spend more than £ 8 billion on additional elective activity and investing in additional capacity include community diagnostic centre , one such centre be in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . since September 2023 overall waiting list have fall by almost 200 , 000 — the big five - month fall in over 10 year , outside of the pandemic . nhs waiting list have rise threefold since the Tories come to power , and the Prime Minister ' s pledge to cut waiting list be in tatter . rather than take responsibility , the Tories first blame NHS staff who be try to get well pay , and now they have open up a new round of medium attack on the sick and the disabled . why do not the Government instead go after the tax dodger , as Labour plan to do , to raise fund and help resolve the crisis in our NHS ? once again the hon . Gentleman do not condemn the strike . I would gently say that while we be get waiting list down in England , Welsh Labour have the long hospital wait in Great Britain , put patient at risk because it do not have a plan to clear the backlog . in December 2023 the Welsh Labour Government have the high number of patient in Great Britain wait over two year for treatment . it be an outrage ; yet that be the blueprint for what the Labour party say it will implement here in England . I see increase number of woman come to my constituency surgery about chronic urinary tract infection , not for themselves but for their daughter . unfortunately there seem to be no treatment pathway for chronic UTIs among girl . do my right hon . friend have any thought about that , and would he agree to meet I to discuss the issue far ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Happy St George ' s day , Mr Speaker . Westminster be awash with rumour that the Prime Minister will call a July general election , presumably to avoid give his Rwanda gimmick the time to fail . I have a very simple question for the Minister : will he repeat the pledge that the Prime Minister make last year and promise that NHS waiting list will be low at the time of the general election than when the Prime Minister come to office ? the Prime Minister have be very clear that get waiting list down be one of his top priority , but he have also be clear that performance have be disappointing . one reason be that 1 . 4 million procedure have have to be reschedule because of industrial action . I would gently ask the shadow Secretary of State whether he condemn those strike . General Medical Council : oversight mechanism what assessment she have make of the adequacy of oversight mechanism for the General Medical Council . the General Medical Council have be constitute by Parliament to ensure that decision about individual doctor be independent of both the profession and the Government of the day . the Professional Standards Authority oversee the work of all United Kingdom professional regulator and report to Parliament on their operational performance . Parliament continue to set and oversee the principle and scope of the regulator ’ power . good governance mean ensure transparency , and one concern of my constituent be whether GMC decision can be appeal . will the Minister reassure I that we can have well transparency in the GMC on the decision that it make ? the GMC and other professional regulator have a statutory duty to investigate any concern about the fitness to practice of one of their registrant and to take appropriate action to protect the public when that be need . the regulator be oversee by the Professional Standards Authority for Health and Social Care , which have the power to appeal case where , in its view , a sanction impose by a regulator be insufficient to protect the public . the GMC have seven principle of decision making and consent . how will the Minister ensure that GPs can fulfil their obligation when time constraint on appointment mean that they do not have time to listen to every complaint ? People have to book a double appointment to talk about more than one issue . what further support can the Government give GPs to enable they to fulfil their GMC - order standard of care ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the Government have commit to deliver 50 million more GP appointment and to make it easy throughout the country to see a doctor . in England in December , we deliver 25 . 77 million GP appointment compare with 23 . 31 million in December 2019 — an increase of 2 . 46 million appointment each month . we need to continue to work with programme such as Pharmacy First , and we be take other step to reduce the pressure on GPs so that they have more time to spend with their patient . GP Retention what recent progress she have make on retain GPs . general practitioner be a rock . they be the underpinning force of primary care . I want to take the opportunity to pay tribute to they for all they do for the health of the nation . my right hon . friend be right to raise the issue of GP retention . during covid and since , GPs have be exhaust and the return to primary care provision have be difficult . the Government be do a lot , such as improve digital telephony and reduce the administrative workload . I be about to launch a future of general practice taskforce to look at what more we can do to provide more support to this critical part of our primary care . Chelmsford be a grow city , and it be very good that , compare with pre - covid time , we have more clinician in our GP surgery , but we need more surgery as well . one new surgery be be build . I have be tell that the limit that local district valuer impose on NHS lease cost make it increasingly difficult for developer to deliver new surgery building , not only in Chelmsford , but in other part of the country . will my right hon . friend meet I and other affect mp to see whether we can resolve that issue and help grow area , where there be more house , to deliver the new surgery that we need ? of course I would be delighted to meet my right hon . friend to discuss that issue , which several colleague across the House have raise with I . she will appreciate that the District Valuer Services be crucial in ensure value for taxpayer ' s money from the rent that be charge for GP practice . nevertheless , the Department be work hard to support well primary care facility . I understand the point and would be happy to meet she . there be 56 few fully qualified gps in Somerset now than there be in December 2016 , so it be no surprise that my constituent in Wincanton feel that they can never access one . how will the Minister support general practice to enable it to continue to provide the vital service that our community deserve ? it be fantastic that hard - work gps have deliver 60 million more appointment a year than in 2019 . that be a credit to their effort . the Government have undertake a wide range of approach to try to reduce the administrative burden . we be focus on try to deal with some of the issue that GPs have raise with I about the primary and secondary care interface so that they do not have to write all the fit note and liaise with consultant . we have also spend more than £ 200 million on digital telephony . importantly , the additional role reimbursement scheme have add more than 36 , 000 more professional staff , from physio to pharmacist to those in GP practice , to try to support patient access . I call the shadow Minister . at the last general election , the Government promise to deliver 6 , 000 more gps by 2024 - 25 , but there be still 2 , 000 few gps than in 2015 . part of the problem be that morale have plummet in the past decade , mean that experience family doctor and newly qualified GPs be hang up their stethoscope . what do the Minister say after scrap two gp retention scheme last month ? will she come clean today about another broken manifesto promise ? the hon . Lady be choose number out of the air . she will be aware that there be almost 3 , 000 more gps now than in 2019 , and very importantly the long - term workforce plan be schedule to introduce 6 , 000 new training place by 2031 - 32 . in 2022 , we have the great number ever of new trainee GPs . that be great news for GP practice , as they be crucial to primary care . Hospital Repairs what step she be take to ensure adequate funding for hospital repair . may I wish you a happy St . George ' s day , Mr Speaker ? I also wish the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) a speedy recovery ; I hope to see she across the Dispatch Box soon . the Government have invest significant sum to maintain and modernise NHS building , include £ 4 . 2 billion for integrated care board this financial year . this be on top of the expect £ 20 billion for the new hospital programme . we have invest a furth £ 1 . 7 billion for over 70 hospital upgrade across England , include in mid and south Essex . I thank the Secretary of State very much for the Government ' s commitment to deliver the £ 110 million in capital funding for south Essex hospital and for her recent visit to Southend hospital , where she see in our emergency village how much £ 8 million can do in the hand of Southend hospital ' s inspirational NHS staff . however , our aged building do also need urgent maintenance , so what can she also do to deliver the £ 38 million in maintenance funding also need for Southend hospital ? I thank my hon . friend , and also wish she the very good of luck , as she be due to abseil down the hospital next month for its radiotherapy appeal . I very much hope she land safely and do not trouble Southend hospital . I be delighted to visit the hospital at her invitation early this month , and I be very much impressed by the immediate improvement that the £ 8 million funding have mean in the Dowsett ward and for discharge and treatment time through accident and emergency . this be part of our plan , both through the urgent and emergency care plan and through our recovery plan for elective and the new hospital programme , to rebuild hospital and provide that investment so that clinician can use it to treat their local patient . last month , I meet the chief executive of Stepping Hill Hospital in Stockport . she inform I that the primary out - patient building , which provide 85 % of out - patient capacity , be recently condemn . while funding have be secure to build two additional ward , they will not be ready for at least 15 month , cause huge disruption in the interim . fourteen year of underinvestment have leave Stepping Hill Hospital quite literally crumble . will the Government provide urgent capital investment for Stepping Hill , so that my constituent and our brilliant NHS staff can have the facility they need ? I very much hope that the hon . Gentleman have already speak to his integrate care board , because he will know that responsibility for local investment decision rightly rest at local level . I can say that , as a Government , we have very much invest in hospital upgrade , include £ 4 . 2 billion go to integrate care board this financial year . I hear the timetable he cite , but I encourage he to go to his integrate care board to ask what more it be do . type 2 diabetes : Medicine Shortages what step she be take to tackle medicine shortage for type 2 diabete . it be vital that people have access to the medicine they need . the Department have be work with the supplier of medicine use in the treatment of type 2 diabete to seek commitment from they to address the issue , expedite delivery and boost supply . as a result , the position be now much improve compare with a few month ago , with new patient now able to receive these critical medicine . we continue to work with industry to address remain issue as quickly as possible . we know that obesity in this country be cost the NHS about £ 20 billion a year , and it be a major contributory factor to type 2 diabete , which be preventable in a lot of case by have a healthy lifestyle . what more can we do encourage people to eat healthily and therefore save cost in the NHS ? the hon . member raise a very important point . obesity be link to many health condition , include type 2 diabetes . we be deliver an ambitious programme of work to create a healthy environment to support people in achieve and maintain a healthy weight . this include restrict the placement of less healthy product in shop and online , calorie labelling on food sell in restaurant and a tax on the sugary drink industry , which have remove the equivalent of 45 , 000 tonne of sugar from soft drink . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . a recent Nuffield Trust report show that medicine shortage be a new normal in the UK . the Minister might claim that this be a global issue , but as the report highlight , shortage be be make bad by Brexit . for example , the creation of a requirement for custom check at the border and leave the European Medicines Agency have disrupt the previously smooth supply of medicine . what urgent action will the Minister take to help to tackle the disastrous effect of Brexit on UK medicine supply ? the SNP , as usual , be a broken record . we all know that diabete medicine shortage be a global issue affect country not just across the whole of the European Union , but across the whole world . medicine supply chain be highly regulated , complex and global . issue can occur for multiple reason , include manufacture difficulty , regulatory non - compliance , surge in demand , availability of raw material , sudden spike in demand , and issue relate to the distribution of the product . but once again , as always , the grievance culture of the SNP be : blame everything on Brexit . Nurse Recruitment and retention : GP practice what step she be take to increase level of nurse recruitment and retention in GP practice . we hugely appreciate the work that general practice nurse do . I know that the hon . Lady be a nurse in her previous life , and I absolutely pay tribute to she for her service . she will be aware that last year the Government provide additional funding for the general practice contract to uplift pay by 6 % , in line with the pay review body ' s recommendation . we be very much aware of the need to try to ensure that general practice nurse feel appreciated and be keen to be retain in GP practice , which be one of the reason I have launch a taskforce on the future of general practice . as she will know , it be for GP practice themselves to determine the pay uplift for their nurse . I be look closely at that , because we know that sometimes the pay rise provide by the Government be not pass on . we have all see image of people queue around the block for an appointment at their gp surgery , and in my local integrate care board , there have be a decline in general practice nurse since June 2020 . it currently take 12 month to train nurse wish to move into general practice . will the Minister tell I and my constituent in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale what she be do to ensure that the retention of experienced nurse and the training of new nurse do not add to the pressure that GPs be already face ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . the long - term workforce plan commit to increase the number of general practice nurse by more than 5 , 000 by 2036 - 37 . in her area , the number of doctor in general practice in the NHS Birmingham and Solihull ICB increase by 134 full - time equivalent between 2019 and 2023 , but the number of nurse decrease slightly , by 34 full - time equivalent . however , over the same period , direct patient care staff increase by 1 , 195 full - time equivalent . I think that demonstrate to the hon . Lady that the actual resource in GP practice be increase , with specialism such as physiotherapy and pharmacy , as well as nurse prescriber , to provide patient more access to good healthcare . community and District Nurses : recruitment and Retention what step she be take to support the recruitment and retention of community and district nurse . as the hon . Member may know , in September 2023 , we meet our commitment to deliver 50 , 000 more nurse work in the NHS compare with September 2019 . as of January 2024 , there be over 68 , 800 full - time equivalent community nurse work in NHS trust and other core organisation across England , which be over 2 , 000 more than a year ago . however , we want to go far , which be why the NHS long - term workforce plan set an ambition to increase training place for district nurse by 150 % , to nearly 1 , 800 . it also commit to improve retention in the NHS . in Scotland , the vacancy rate for register nursing post in the community be 8 . 5 % , and for register district nurse it be 6 . 6 % — in England , the situation be actually bad in most part . however , these post be fundamental , not just to care in community and to our community themselves , but to address bed block . it be obviously for the Scottish Government to address term and condition of employment , but their overall funding package be dictate by the block grant and Barnett consequential . be it not time that the Department stand up for the NHS ? when there be money for weapon abroad , why can we not provide care at home ? we be tell during the referendum that we would be well together and that the NHS would be protect . instead , it be be undermine . we hear from Opposition Members who love nothing more than to crow and criticise as their health system decline around they , despite record funding from the UK Government . Scotland have , sadly , some of the bad health outcome in the western world . early this year , when the UK Government step in to offer support , the SNP Health Minister reject the offer . I reiterate that if the Scottish Government need help to reduce their waiting list , we stand ready to provide such support . Health Inequalities what step she be take to tackle health inequality . we be commit to level up health , narrow the gap in healthy life expectancy by 2030 , and increase healthy life expectancy by five year by 2035 . that align with our mission to reform our health and care system to be fast , simple and fairer . in January , Professor Sir Michael Marmot publish " Health Inequalities , live Cut Short " , which confirm that between 2011 and 2019 , drive by political choice , 1 million people in 90 % of area in England live short life than they should . the inequality be amplify by Covid . these life cut short be match by short life in good health . do the Secretary of State believe in evidence - base health ? if so , do she accept the overwhelming evidence that current level of ill health reflect 14 year of escalate poverty , service that have be run into the ground , include the NHS , and the Government ' s failure to do what they promise in 2019 : level up ? no , I do not , and I would point to the legislation that the Government bring forward last week , which be the large and most significant public health reform that we can make to help the hon . member ' s constituent and those in other part of the country who face inequality . we know that smoking rate be disproportionately high in poor community , which be one of the many reason why we introduce such landmark legislation . it be just a shame that the Labour party feel that they have to whip their member to get they to vote for it . will the Secretary of State support Breast Cancer now ' s campaign to improve the uptake of breast cancer screening , especially among woman in minority ethnic community , because that be a good way to tackle health inequality ? I completely agree . far on ethnicity and inequality , I have not only prioritise woman ' s health as Secretary of State , but announce £ 50 million of research into maternity disparity for woman of colour , give the worrying statistic associate with that . I have also respond to call from brave constituent , put forward by hon . member on both side of the House , for further research into lobular breast cancer , because although it be responsible for 15 % of diagnosis , we do not have the research or evidence to help woman who be affect by it . the reality be that someone live in the inner city in the Bradford district be likely to live 20 year less than those live in the more affluent part of the region . that have not just happen ; it be a result of 14 year of underinvestment in and cut to not only our NHS , but our community service . will the Secretary of State just admit that the Government frankly could not care less about people from place such as Bradford , because otherwise they would have accept my levelling - up bid , which would have address this injustice at its core ? I be so glad that the hon . Gentleman have mention level up , because presumably he will know from his bid that the 12 levelling - up mission be mutually reinforce . conservative Members take the approach that in order to help people with their health — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman be shout at I . I think that this answer would be important to his constituent . level up be not just about health . it be about the impact of education , housing and other matter in our environment , which be why in the forthcoming major condition strategy we will tie together the condition that have the most impact on a healthy life . we will draw together a cross - government strategy to help people who be live with those condition to live long but also healthy life . the Health Secretary will know about the health inequality across the east of England , include in Maldon district , which will only be make bad if the NHS ' s plan to close St Peter ' s Hospital in Maldon procee . do she agree that the levelling - up funding that have be make available to Maldon District Council should be prioritise to facilitate investment in new localise health service , so that those inequality can be tackle ? my right hon . friend make an important point . the purpose of the levelling - up fund be to help local area to address what they need locally , rather than respond to diktat from central London . I encourage she to work closely , as I know she will , with local agency , the council and other make those important decision , so that their levelling - up announcement include health , as an integral part of her mission to improve the life of her constituent . I call the shadow Minister . back in the real world , the record of the last Labour Government be that we increase life expectancy by three year . under this government , it have stall for the first time in a century , with people in Blackpool , for example , expect to live four and a half year less than the national average . be the Secretary of State proud of this shocking record , or will people have to wait to elect Chris Webb in Blackpool South and a Labour Government at Westminster to finally turn the tide on health inequality ? as someone who be proud to have go to school in Blackpool , I do not need a lecture from the hon . gentleman about what Labour have do to the town centre , or about the important work that conservative in Lancashire be do to help community such as Blackpool . on Labour ' s record , I gently point out , as I try to do at every oral , that the record of the labour - run NHS in Wales be lamentable . People be almost twice as likely to be wait for treatment in the labour - run NHS in Wales . that be not a record of which to be proud . Bowel Care : People with Spinal Injuries what step she be take to improve bowel care for people with spinal injury . the hon . member raise an important issue . it be vital that people with spinal injury receive care in the most appropriate environment to support their care and rehabilitation . the NHS have develop a range of guidance on the subject , include NHS England ' s excellent incontinence care guidance . in addition , guideline from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence set out the care that patient with spinal injury should receive , include through a neurological bowel management programme . there be a clear need for a national policy on bowel care in NHS setting for people with spinal injury . I have listen to patient who have be leave feel abandon and trap in a hospital bed without the basic dignity of be able to use the toilet — all because of a lack of training for nurse in provide the necessary support . will the Minister meet I and representative of the Spinal Injuries Association to discuss how we can make the situation well and ensure that nobody be deny this basic level of care ? I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for the work that she and the all - party parliamentary group on spinal cord injury have do on the issue . I would be more than happy to meet they . a & E Waiting Times : East Lancashire what step her Department be take to improve accident and emergency waiting time in east Lancashire . just over a year ago , we set out a plan to improve urgent and emergency care . the plan be work . at East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust , 78 % of A & E patient in March be see within four hour . that be 4 . 5 percentage point well than last year — the big year - on - year improvement outside the pandemic since 2010 . we know that there be more to do ; that be why we be work with the NHS on year 2 of the urgent and emergency care recovery plan . I be grateful to the Minister for that response , and grateful to she for agree to meet I and other local mp to discuss the emergency care situation in east Lancashire . could I ask she to go one step far ? perhaps she and even the Secretary of State could visit Burnley General Teaching Hospital in my constituency , meet the trust , and see what more we can do there , partly to reverse the disastrous decision of the last Labour Government to close the A & E there ? I commend my hon . friend and other east Lancashire colleague for their campaigning on this matter . I look forward to the meeting we be go to have to discuss the performance of his local A & E , and I thank he very much for the invitation to visit . I share an integrate care board with the hon . member for Burnley ( Antony Higginbotham ) in Lancashire and South Cumbria . do the Minister agree that one reason why there be such problem with A & E waiting time be the congestion in our hospital overall , because of the number of people who be healthy and fit to leave hospital , but can not have a health and care plan when they return home ? some 24 % of all bed in the Morecambe Bay hospital be occupy by people who be fit to leave , but have no care package . what plan do the Minister have to address the social care crisis in Cumbria ? that will include increase the amount of affordable housing , so that people can afford to live in the area ; pay carer more ; and have more intelligent visa rule . the hon . Gentleman make the point that the performance of a & E depend on the flow of patient through hospital and our ability to discharge they . that be why , as part of our work on urgent and emergency care , we have invest in support hospital to discharge patient , and have be support social care . we have see an increase number of discharge across the country over the last year , which have enable hospital to treat more people and support the improved performance in A & E that I mention . we continue to work on that , and of course we be support social care with up to £ 8 . 6 extra billion funding over two year . Mental Health Support for NHS Staff what assessment she have make of the adequacy of mental health support for NHS staff . every day , NHS staff do an extraordinary job for their patient , and it be vital that the NHS support they in maintain their mental health . the long - term workforce plan commit the NHS to support staff health and wellbeing and ask integrate care system to develop plan to support they . I be pleased that NHS England be review mental health service for all staff , to ensure that all staff in the NHS have the support that they need . fight to save a die child ' s life , tell family that their love one will not make it through the night , and work desperately in substandard condition — it will come as little shock to hear that all that take a toll . last year , 6 . 4 million mental health sick day be take across the NHS . instead of receive support , our NHS hero have a Tory Government who treat they with disdain and kick they to the kerb . will the Minister commit to fund the NHS practitioner health service beyond the next 12 month , or will the Government just try to shut it down again ? as an NHS community first responder who serve on the frontline during the pandemic , who have to see people say goodbye to their love one for the last time before be admit to hospital , and who have deal with cardiac arrest , I know the mental toll that work for or volunteer with the NHS can take on our workforce , and therefore we do give a very high priority to the subject . the NHS people plan set out a range of action to build a more modern , compassionate and inclusive culture , and include a much strong focus on the availability of quality health and wellbeing support . it be right that we keep service under review , so I will not make a commitment today to continue to fund something that we have agree to fund for another year while those service be review . woman ' s Healthcare what step she be take to improve healthcare for woman . we be focus on deliver our woman ' s health priority for 2024 . recent success include new woman ' s health hub opening across the country , with £ 25 million of investment ; the investment of nearly £ 35 million over three year in improve maternity safety , on top of the extra £ 186 million already be invest each year ; the success of the hormone replacement therapy prepayment certificate ; and research into the important issue of maternity disparity , which I have already mention . House of Commons Library figure reveal that one in four woman with suspect breast cancer be wait more than two week to see a specialist . the waiting list for gynaecological treatment have rise by 40 , 000 in a year , which mean that there be now almost 600 , 000 woman wait , which be up by a third over two year . labour have pledge to tackle that backlog , so that more woman be see fast . how much pain , misery or bad do woman have to endure before this government start prioritise their health ? as the hon . Lady will know — she see the statistic publish very recently — we be in fact treat more people at early stage of their cancer . I want to take on her point about gynaecological wait , because that be important . we be spend more than £ 8 billion in this spending review period on additional elective activity , and invest in additional capacity , include community diagnostic centre and surgical hub , many of which provide gynaecological test and procedure . she may have miss it , but the late publish management information for March show that the long wait for gynaecology service have reduce by nearly 95 % since their peak in September 2021 . of course there be more to do , but we be make progress . I thank all the doctor and team who be involve in that important work . I call the shadow Minister . today , we have see alarming figure point to the systematic de - prioritisation of woman ' s health , with 600 , 000 woman in England wait for gynaecological treatment , 33 , 000 woman wait more than a year , and under two third of eligible woman screen for breast cancer in the last three year . will the Secretary of State come clean and admit that under this government , woman ' s health have become an afterthought ? that be absolute nonsense . as I say , I have prioritise woman ' s health . I be pretty sure that I invite the hon . Lady to the woman ' s health summit early this year . indicate assent . she be very graciously say that I do . the point be that I want woman to receive the sort of care that we would all hope and expect they to have . I have prioritise that precisely because there be condition , include gynaecological condition , that have historically not receive the attention they deserve . as our woman ' s health ambassador Dame Lesley Regan say , the NHS be create by man , for man . I be the Health Secretary who be sort that out . Primary care : Patient Access what step she be take to improve patient access to primary care . what step she be take to improve patient access to primary care . what step she be take to improve patient access to primary care . we be enormously grateful for the work of GPs in deliver 64 million more appointment nationally than in 2019 . our primary care recovery plan enhance GP access by expand community pharmacy service nationwide . some 98 % of community pharmacy have sign up to the Pharmacy First offer , with over 125 , 000 consultation claim in the first month . across Bedfordshire , we suffer from patient to GP ratio that be well in excess of the national average ; high housing growth be simply not match by gp capacity . at Wixams , we have be able to break through 15 year of deadlock by put stakeholder together , but issue still remain across the county . from Shefford to Stondon , heartbreaking story be commonplace . the issue be not ICB - specific ; it affect people right across the country . what more can we do to ensure that area with high housing growth have the GP capacity that resident deserve ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . he may be aware that the Bedfordshire , Luton and Milton Keynes ICB receive £ 36 million for its operational capital budget in 2023 - 24 , with over £ 118 million for this spending review period . that operational capital be core funding provide to icb for deliver primary care , among other thing . in addition , he will be aware that icb be able to provide input to planning permission to ensure that primary care be deliver where there be new housing development . I have work with other hon . member across the House to tackle this issue , and I be very happy to meet he to discuss it far . when I speak to my constituent in Brislington , they tell I they have to wait an inordinate time to get through on the phone to their GPs at the Brooklea health centre , and wait over two week for appointment . constituent in Fishponds have be tell that it be over an hour ' s wait for prescription medication at the local pharmacy — and we all know the situation with dentist . the other thing my constituent be wait for be a general election . do the Minister agree that that be the only way we will sort out these problem in the NHS ? I certainly do not agree . if Labour be in government , we would see significantly bad outcome . Covid be a once - in - 100 - year pandemic , and we have pull out all the stop to recover from that . it be a huge tribute to all those work in primary care that they have do so well . in the hon . Lady ' s ICB — Bristol North , North Somerset and South Gloucestershire — 38 . 4 % of all appointment be deliver on the same day they be book in February this year , and 84 % be deliver within two week of booking , with 66 % of they face to face . these be extremely positive number for the 482 , 000 appointment deliver in February 2024 . what be really important be that the number of patient care staff have increase by 656 full - time equivalent since 2019 . I have listen to the Minister ' s comment , but the number of patient per gp in the Bedfordshire , Luton and Milton Keynes area be nearly 25 % high than the national average . will the Minister explain why her government think it be a good idea to cut the proportion of doctor be train as GPs from around one in three to around one in four ? the hon . Lady be simply wrong . she will be aware that , in fact , our long - term workforce plan be intend to raise the number of training place for GPs to 6 , 000 by 2031 - 32 . in 2022 , we have over 4 , 000 new GPs apply to take training place — an absolute record . there be much more to do , and I be work with GPs on a future for GP practice taskforce to make sure that we do everything we can , include hire the 36 , 000 additional professional now work in GP practice , in order to relieve the pressure on GPs and deliver much well patient access . last week , a constituent contact I to say that her tooth crumble during pregnancy and she be unable to get a dentist appointment . another constituent , who be in agony , desperately plead for help to find a dentist . my own son , Clifford , have be wait two year for a tooth extraction , and I have receive hundred of email about similar issue . it be simply not good enough . what plan do the Government have to sort this out once and for all , and what advice do the Minister have for my constituent ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important point . we know that because all dentist be lock down during covid , the recovery in access to NHS care have not be as fast as we would like . that be why we announce our dentistry recovery plan , include a new patient premium , which , since it be launch on 1 March , have already see hundred of thousand of new NHS patient who have not see a dentist in two year . some 240 dentist will receive golden hello to encourage they to work in underserved area . we also have our new smile for Life prevention programme , which will ensure that baby receive an early dental check for their milk tooth in family hub , and that pregnant mum receive well dental care and advice . we be now try to work with dentist to look at reform of the unit of dental activity contract , but follow the first meeting of the group yesterday , it seem that dentist feel that all the parameter be in place . what we now need to do be ensure that the incentive be there and that we see thing change rapidly . my GPs be work extraordinarily hard to increase access in the face of ever increase public demand . I be alarm by the Labour party ' s talk about scrap the GP partnership model , as I find in the Stroud district that GP practice be some of the most efficient part of our NHS service . they need support , the removal of bureaucracy and the opening up of fund pot , rather than dismantle . will my right hon . friend explain how access to primary care would not be help by remove the partnership model , and what be the Government do to help icb create more flexible partnership fund pot ? my hon . friend make a fantastic point , and I say again that GPs absolutely underpin our primary care . we all absolutely rely on they , and our measure to create 36 , 000 additional role in GP practice will provide they with the additional capacity they need so that they can serve their patient well . that be good for patient , good for primary care and incredibly good value for the taxpayer . it be ludicrous that Labour be propose to undermine the GP partnership model ; that would be a disaster for primary care . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . we know that people in work lead happy , healthy life . however , over 10 million " not fit for work " fit note be issue last year . Most be repeat fit note issue without any advice , so we be miss a golden opportunity to give million of people the support they need to remain in work . that be why we be launch a reform of the fit note process to create a new system in which fit note conversation focus on what people can do , not what they can not do . as part of this , the Government will consider shift the responsibility for issue fit note away from GPs to reduce the pressure they face and to free up million of appointment . I thank everyone who have deliver this vital work , and I very much look forward to hear the result of the call for evidence in due course so that we can reform our welfare system for the sake of our constituent and our gps . accord to the Association of British HealthTech Industries , it take , on average , 17 year for lifesaving and life - enhance technology to be adopt in the NHS . what step be my right hon . friend take to speed up the adoption of new technology so that the NHS can save more life and improve patient outcome ? I dispute the 17 - year figure , as it can vary across innovation . the figure be contest , but my hon . friend raise an important point . we have a plan to prioritise the acceleration of patient access , thereby ensure safe , effective and innovative medical technology for patient and the NHS . our ambition be back by funding , and we be reform the medical technology regulatory framework , introduce the innovative device access pathway pilot and launch framework to increase the availability of innovative product for the sake of patient across England and the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Health Secretary have promise that the Government will provide an extra 2 . 5 million dental appointment this year , but the dentistry Minister , the right hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , say the figure have " a high likelihood of not be reliable " . which one of they be wrong ? I be delighted to be able to tell the hon . Gentleman that we have model down the ambition , so the figure we initially provide be high than 2 . 5 million appointment . that be because we be focus on deliver the dental recovery plan , rather than overpromise . the hon . Gentleman find it easy to call our child short and fat , but he shy away from welfare reform , call it shameless and irresponsible . he say he be ready to stand up to middle - class lefty , but Labour have never put patient first by condemn the union that strike . he make glossy promise about reform the NHS in England , yet Labour have fail completely — order . I gently say that we need to get a lot of Back Benchers in , and I be sure both side want to do that . the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history , which be a record that the right hon . Lady ' s Government can not begin to touch . back to dentistry , the chief dental officer say the announcement be " nowhere near enough . " the British Dental Association say : " this ' Recovery Plan ' be not worthy of the title . " it also say that the recovery plan will not stop the " exodus " of dentist and will not meet the Government ' s target . who should the public trust , and why should they trust the Health Secretary to deliver when her own adviser , her own Minister and , crucially , dentist all say that she be brush the truth under the carpet ? again , let we bring ourselves back up to date . I know the Labour party like look back to the last time it find favour with the british public , but Wales be the up - to - date record of today . labour ' s lamentable record of run the NHS in Wales speak for itself . if the hon . Gentleman be so set on reform , why on earth be he not help his Labour colleague in Wales to do exactly as he be promise ? it be because they be empty promise , and because the hon . Gentleman and , I be afraid , the Labour party will step back from reform rather than grapple with the issue , as we be do with our recovery plan . finally , on the dental recovery plan , within a month of the new patient premium be switch on , hundred of surgery have open to new patient , which mean that patient in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and elsewhere be get the care they need . as my right hon . friend have already hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , the Mid and South Essex ICB have publish proposal to close St Peter ' s Hospital in Maldon and to relocate medical service elsewhere , despite the huge growth take place in the town . I have to say to the Secretary of State that my constituent have little confidence in the consultation . will she therefore look closely at the outcome and , if necessary , intervene to ensure that my constituent be still able to access vital health service within the town ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise that matter . I understand that a consultation be conduct locally and that more than 5 , 000 local people and staff respond . their feedback will be analyse by an independent research agency , which will produce a report for the Mid and South Essex ICB , and a meeting be due to take place in public in July . I will , of course , continue to take an interest in this matter . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the recent announcement on fit note reform be just the late in a long string of attack on the most vulnerable people in society . sick and disabled people be be vilify , when , as the Joseph Rowntree Foundation point out , almost two third of those live in destitution live with a chronic health condition or a disability . the UK Government be continue their track record in failing , and make life more difficult for , disabled people . do the Secretary of State understand how much more difficult these change will make people ' s life ? these reform be be bring forward because of a simply unsustainable rise in the number of people be give fit note so that they can not re - enter the world of work . we want to support people into work , not only because we believe that it be the good way to help they to recover , but because it help we to fund the NHS . it be fund by people who work and pay their taxis . again , I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to matter a little close to home ; sadly , Scotland ' s record on health be very difficult to read and it include the bad level of drug death in Europe . I encourage she to concentrate on how the SNP be run health service in its local area . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the British Psychological Society have commend the benefit of Government support for staff mental health and wellbee hub and be keen to see that support continue . will the Minister therefore give an update on the support be provide and the progress be make on the vital issue of staff mental health and wellbee ? that be an important point . we know how vital it be to support everyone who be work so hard in our NHS to support patient . NHS England be review mental health service for all staff who need they , to ensure that they can access the support they need . it be work collaboratively with region and integrate care system to agree the good approach to do that . there be an increase incidence of bowel cancer among young patient , such as my constituent Emily , who receive a late diagnosis after many month of attend her gp with iron deficiency anaemia . young patient often report that bowel cancer be dismiss as a possibility by their GP because of their age , and that symptom such as iron deficiency anaemia be not take seriously enough and be not include currently on the list of common symptom on the NHS website . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that NHS guideline and practice be fit for purpose for young patient , who far too often receive a late diagnosis of bowel cancer ? the hon . Lady make an important point . as part of the NHS long - term plan , we have an ambition to diagnose 75 % of all stageable cancer at stage 1 or 2 by 2028 . that mean that we need to make significant improvement on the hard - to - detect cancer such as bowel cancer . we be work across system to deliver those improvement , not only with well screening programme , but by improve patient pathway . however , I be more than happy to meet she if she want to have a further conversation specifically about bowel cancer . follow discussion with constituent who be live with Parkinson ' s and with Parkinson ' s UK , I be concerned that North Yorkshire have only one dedicated Parkinson ' s nurse . give the complexity of the condition , what step be be take far to incentivise nurse to specialise in Parkinson ' s and on long - term delivery ? my hon . friend make an important point . I know the huge value of Parkinson ' s nurse to local patient in my constituency . under the NHS long - term workforce plan , back by more than £ 2 . 4 billion over the next five year , the NHS will focus on expand the number of clinician train for enhanced and advanced role work as part of multidisciplinary team with the right skill to meet the change need of patient . the main issue raise by resident at the community coffee morning at the Compton centre in Leeds yesterday be the difficulty in get access to dentist . the Secretary of State struggle to give any credible answer on this question today . be she aware of the " dentist for all " campaign in and will she back it ? its three demand be : to provide access to an NHS dentist for everyone ; to restore funding for dental service and recruit more nhs dentist ; and to change the contract , because they be simply not fit for purpose . do the Secretary of State agree with that , and , if not , why not ? we switch on our fully fund dental recovery plan , in case the hon . Gentleman be not listen carefully early , on 1 March . nearly 500 more practice in England be accept new adult patient than at the end of January , and even more will do so under the dental recovery plan . we have plan to bring in new dental van to help our most isolated community . we be also bring in the Smile4Life programme for child , because prevention must be a critical part of our dental recovery plan . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . minister will be aware of a rather boastful claim last weekend by the maker of Elfbar and Lost Mary vape . they have already launch rechargeable , refillable product , which , with a coil in each pod , be not by definition single - use or disposable accord to the publish regulation . can the Minister reassure the House and parent that they be alive to that and will pivot as necessary now that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be go into Committee ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter , which show the cynicism with which the tobacco and vaping industry be approach these landmark public health reform . on vape , we have commit to consult on the power that we be adopt in the Bill precisely because we want to ensure that the regulation , when they come to the fore , address the reality of the market and the cynicism of the company behind it , and help to ensure that our child do not continue be ply with these horrible item to get they hooked on nicotine . I be disappointed to see the chair of my local hospital trust and the east midland Labour mayoral candidate use my hospital as a political campaign prop by invite the shadow Health and Social Care Secretary and the Leader of the Opposition to canvass patient and staff . can the Minister please explain to I how we can rein in this type of gutter politic and prevent my local hospital be use for Labour ' s dog - whistle politic ? this be a very serious matter , which I have raise with the chief executive of NHS England , and ask she to raise with the regional director and nottinghamshire integrate care board . we have do so because we believe that it might be a breach of the nolan principle . just yesterday , the Office for National Statistics release datum show that alcohol - specific death in 2022 be 4 . 2 % high than in 2021 and a massive 32 . 8 % high than in 2019 . will my right hon . friend now seriously consider a stand - alone alcohol strategy base on this worrying trend and agree to meet I and other interested party to discuss a way forward to tackle alcohol - specific death ? my hon . friend be an incredibly hard - work health Minister and I pay tribute to she for all she do in this area . she will be aware that our groundbreake drug and alcohol strategy commit more than half a billion pound of new funding over the spending review period to rebuild drug and alcohol treatment service , with plan to get an additional 15 , 000 alcohol - dependent people into substance misuse treatment by 2024 - 25 , which we be currently on track to achieve . I would be delighted to meet she to talk about it far . at my last surgery , a young woman tell I that , thank to the delay in her gp diagnose her ovarian cancer , she be now infertile and receive aggressive treatment . she have make four gp appointment over several month for her unexplained stomach cramp . only in an emergency admission in another country be the ovarian cancer diagnose and the tumour remove . how long will it be before the symptom of female - specific condition be take seriously by our medical establishment , from initial training onwards ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this , and I very much send our good wish to her constituent . the hon . Lady raise a really important point . the symptom that woman can experience be often very different for condition relate not just to cancer , but to heart attack , for example . part of my prioritisation of woman ' s health be to get that message out to clinician so that , as this case demonstrate so tragically , they be able to make the good and most prompt diagnosis for all woman . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that the UK Health Security Agency have the budget and the capability it need ? the recent expansion of bird flu among mammal in the United States be a salutary lesson . thankfully , there be no sign yet of human - to - human transmission , but it remind we of the incredible value and importance of be vigilant in this space and have the good possible technology ready to respond as soon as possible . I thank my right hon . friend for his question , and of course for his integral role not just during the pandemic , but in set up the ukhsa . he will understand that I and other be keep this under very close review , and the chief medical officer be brief I as and when need . I have have concern raise about a company base in England but operate across the UK online that shape shift and be know variously as Young Vibes , Peaky Parents , Kactus Kids , " themumsnet " and , currently , Anxiety Recovery . it offer to fix child ' s anxiety in mere week , but it be prey on vulnerable family , draw they into expensive treatment , and incite they to take out loan and get into debt . it be operate outside regulatory framework , so may I ask what Ministers can do about such unscrupulous and exploitative company ? the hon . Lady raise an important point , and I ask she to write to I , please , so that we can look into it . give the importance of the UK ' s life science sector , could my right hon . friend update the House on commercial clinical trial recruitment ? thank in part to the sterling work of my hon . friend , monthly average patient recruitment to commercial clinical trial be almost five time the figure it be back in June 2023 . that be hugely positive , but there be clearly more to do in this space . for over a decade , the Camberwell dialysis unit have provide high - quality NHS care to patient in south London , so my constituent be shock to hear that these service be to be outsource to Diaverum , a multinational for - profit health corporation , which have already have one of its clinic rate inadequate and put into special measure . do the Minister accept that privatise the NHS bit by bit have disastrous implication for care , and will he listen to patient in my constituency and commit to maintain our NHS dialysis provision ? that sum up the usual contradiction on privatisation between Labour Front Benchers and Back Benchers . any service change should be base on clear evidence that they will deliver well patient outcome . in Lambeth , patient who receive dialysis at the new site in Brixton will receive care in a significantly improve environment with brand new facility , in a great example of an innovative public - private partnership . NHS England have establish the renal service transformation programme to reduce unwarranted variation in the quality of access to renal care . will my hon . friend join I in recognise the good work that the Essex Partnership University NHS Foundation Trust have be do to improve mental health outcome , include the creation of a pioneer 24 / 7 urgent mental health care centre , provide urgent help when it be need . be that a model that could be roll out across the country to improve access to mental health for all ? my hon . friend rightly flag the excellent work go on to improve access to mental health service across the country . last year , 3 . 6 million people get mental health support . that be an increase of around 30 % in just three year , support by record funding of over £ 16 billion into mental health care . mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid could save many thousand of child from spina bifida , so why be it happen so slowly , at such a low level and apply to too few product ? I assure the hon . member that we remain firmly committed to the mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid . that will help to protect around 200 baby each year from be bear with neural tube defect . the policy be be deliver across the UK as part of a wide review of bread and flour regulation . in January we publish our consultation response , and we will bring forward legislation to implement the policy later this year . ten day ago I go to the Whipps Cross A & E department to see for myself the pressure that the brilliant team there be under — pressure that be heavily exacerbate by the failure to redevelop the hospital . originally , we be promise that the new hospital would be open by 2026 , but we have still not agree with the Department a plan and timetable to submit to the Treasury for that redevelopment . as a result , the hospital be have to spend huge amount of money try to stem the damage as well as be able to treat patient . it be cost we all . for the sake of patient care and NHS budget , will the Minister meet I to work out where the hold - up be in get Whipps Cross redevelop ? the hon . member raise the performance of the A & E department in her local hospital . I have work closely with the NHS over the past year to improve the performance of urgent and emergency care . since this time last year , we have see ambulance response time improve by over a quarter and wait in A & E cut . I be happy to meet she to talk about her specific A & E department . I again thank the Secretary of State for visit Watford General Hospital early this year , where we share exciting plan for the new hospital , with preparation work start this year , and construction start by the end of 2026 . I speak with the West Hertfordshire NHS Trust leadership team this week , who confirm that they be on track for that delivery within those timescale . will my right hon . friend please join I in thank they for their hard work on that ? I would be delighted to join my hon . friend , and I thank he again for a really positive visit to his local hospital . that be a great example of a local MP work in his local area for his constituent and , what be more , deliver for they . as a practical measure to improve radiotherapy waiting time , will the Minister agree to further work on the radiotherapy dataset , to include the collection of datum on delay at each stage of the radiotherapy pathway , and by tumour type , so that we can well understand pinch point in service ? we be work to improve radiotherapy service across the NHS , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that in more detail . West Hertfordshire Hospital Trust be at the front of the queue for the new hospital programme . we have the land , planning permission , building design , political and staff support , and enable work be under way . but , like many other trust around the country , the hospital trust be be ask to submit business case after business case . will the Secretary of State clarify whether those delay be down to bureaucracy and the new hospital programme , or be they deliberate delay tactic by a Government who do not want to release fund to hospital before the general election ? normally , a Secretary of State would appear at the Dispatch Box after a question like that and say , " I refer the hon . member to the answer I give early . " on this occasion I will refer she to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Dean Russell ) . he have just set out the business case for Watford General , which be great news , and I hope she will join he and I in welcome that new hospital when it be open . infected Blood Inquiry ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister for the Cabinet Office to make a statement on the evidence uncover of experiment on child and the contaminate blood scandal , and update the House on the action that the Government be take on the second interim report from Sir Brian Langstaff . let I start by state that the story report in the recent BBC news article , and indeed the Sunday Times report by Caroline Wheeler , demonstrate the unimaginable suffering of all those impact by this dreadful scandal . as the House will know , in 2017 the Government establish an independent public statutory inquiry chair by Sir Brian Langstaff , to give those impact and their family the answer that they deserve . since it be establish , the inquiry have take evidence from a range of source , and the testimony be indicative of the bravery of every individual who have come forward . the infected blood inquiry ' s final report be due to be publish within a month , on 20 May , and we expect the inquiry ' s finding to cover a set of extremely challenging issue . it would not be right for the Government to pre - empt the finding of this long - prepared and carefully consider report , but the Government have commit to update Parliament through an oral statement on next step within 25 sit day follow 20 May . it be our intention to make that statement as soon as possible . the 25 - day stipulation be a deadline , and certainly not a target . in January this year , I appoint an expert group to provide technical advice to the Cabinet Office in respond to the infected blood inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation . that work be well under way and will build on the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry to inform the Government ' s substantive response to the inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation . the Government understand the need to move quickly to provide compensation to victim of infected blood . most recently , we table amendment just last Wednesday to the Victims and Prisoners Bill to impose a duty on the Government to establish an infected blood compensation scheme . it also establish a new arm ' s length body , name the infected blood compensation authority , to deliver the compensation scheme . it will operate on a UK - wide basis to ensure parity and consistency . that demonstrate our absolute commitment to deliver long overdue justice to victim of infected blood . we understand that for many there be an urgent need for compensation . as the House will know , in October 2022 , the Government pay more than £ 400 million in interim compensation to help to ease the short - term need of those infect . the Government amendment also include a statutory duty to make interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of the deceased infected people who be register with exist or former support scheme , where previous interim payment have not already be make to infect individual or their bereaved partner . that be an important step forward to get substantial compensation into the hand of family and victim of infected blood . should that Government amendment be support in the other place , it will return to this House for debate in the usual process of Commons consideration of Lords amendment . we know that more than 3 , 000 people have already die in the bad treatment disaster in the history of the NHS . another 680 have die since the public inquiry start in 2018 . with two people die on average every week , 100 people have die since Sir Brian make his final recommendation on pay compensation in April 2023 . he say that " wrong be do at individual , collective and systemic level . " he also say that in all conscience he could not wait until his final report be publish to tell the Government to start pay compensation . last week , Hugh Pym of the BBC produce shocking evidence about child , even baby , be experiment on in the 1970 and 1980 without their parent ' consent . these disturbing revelation raise serious criminal and ethical issue for the NHS and the medical profession . there be possible breach of the 1947 Nuremberg code . alongside that , the Sunday Times , and Caroline Wheeler , in particular launch a campaign at the weekend for compensation to be pay now to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . so far , more than 160 mp have back the campaign , and 10 party be represent , include six leader . last week , the Government finally lay those amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill in the other place after this House force the Government to act in December last year . this weekend , Ministers confirm that even when Sir Brian produce his final report on 20 May , the Government may not respond until as late as 3 July 2024 . meanwhile , there have be no announcement on compensation funding or on any compensation scheme , despite the Government have accept the moral case for compensation . what action be the Government take follow last week ' s BBC story on the experiment on child ? when will Sir Brian ' s recommendation on compensation be implement in full ? on what date will payment be make to those infected and affected ? why have the interim payment not be make , as Sir Brian recommend last April ? how will those infect and affect be involve in the whole scheme ? why be minister reject the three - month timeframe for set up a compensation body that this House agree to in December last year , and Sir Brian ' s recommendation that it should be judge - lead ? on all side of the House , Members know that when people be die , justice delay be justice deny . the time to act be now . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question and initial comment . nobody in this House have do more than she to advance the interest of the infected and affected community , as I have say consistently since I take office on 13 November . I recognise her frustration and be do everything I can to address they . last week , I meet she and other Chairs , across party , as I do just before the Easter recess , and I will continue to update she as regularly as I can . the right hon . Lady draw attention to commentary from Hugh Pym and other journalist about speculation and allegation , which I believe Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , when it be publish on 20 May , should give substantive airing to , draw on the evidence collect . it would be reasonable for the Government to wait for that authoritative statement on what information and evidence they have gather before we respond , but that do not mean that , since I take office , I have be do anything other than move forward everything I can on compensation as quickly as possible . the right hon . Lady be quite right to say that over 3 , 000 death have occur since 1970 , include 141 last year . I recognise that the challenge of urgently secure interim payment , in term of the mechanic of how it be do , be not a concern of the infected and affected community . she quite reasonably stand up and urge speed on that , and I be do what I can . the statutory duty to make an interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of the deceased infected people be the first time that we have put in legislation a duty to pay compensation before the ad hoc scheme , which , over the past 45 or 50 year , have never admit culpability . I have also put into legislation , with the consent of both Houses , the need to set up the arm ' s length body and make it as operational as soon as possible . as I discuss with the right hon . Lady last week , my concern be to get that arm ' s length body up and run as quickly as possible , and there be a legal obligation to do so when Royal Assent be gain — there be no statutory deadline but there be a responsibility to do that . I recognise the concern around a judge - lead body . indeed , Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report suggest that a judge - lead body would be desirable — I do not rule that out — but at this stage it seem reasonable not to confine it in legislation in case another candidate become available . clearly , however , gain the confidence of the affected and infected community be absolutely integral to this process work . as I say , I be do everything I can to bring forward the Government ' s substantive response on the wide issue of compensation as near as I can to the 20 May , and I will update the House as often as I can . indeed , I have make time available tomorrow for an open surgery for any MP who want to bring case to I . I call the Father of the House . may I follow the tribute to the great Dame — the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) — for what she have be do ? I have be actively involve in this in one way or another for 25 year . we all know that the justification for have the Langstaff inquiry have be the information that have now come out in public , which be conceal or not know over the decade . we also know that this be different from most of the discussion in the Pearson report on whether there should be compensation when thing go wrong in medical treatment . this report be likely to show how , since the war , people have not pay enough attention to the warning give by those in the field . with the update of Caroline Wheeler ' s book and the BBC programme , we now know that , as well as the haemophilia trial publish in the 1970 , the 1980s trial show massive defect by the standard of those day , let alone by up - to - date standard . I join the right hon . Lady in ask the Minister when it will be possible for people to register their name , background and circumstance for compensation . do we have to wait until a month ' s time for that to happen , and how will it be deal with ? obviously , as the Cabinet Office Minister , he follow his predecessor in carry this responsibility , but how far will the Department of Health and Social Care be involve , and will other Departments be involve ? my hon . friend make wise observation . I do not mean not to pay tribute to he in a similar way ; his commitment to this cause , probably over my lifetime , be extraordinary . in respect of the £ 100 , 000 payment announce through the Government amendment table last Wednesday , we will be work with the exist support scheme to expedite they as quickly as possible for the estate of the deceased infected . on the substantive response on the wide complete compensation , through last week ' s intervention , and build on the amendment of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , we have establish the delivery vehicle for compensation . on the challenge that we be somehow delay compensation , which be reasonably make , I think that what I have say to the House this afternoon make it clear that we be commit in legislation to deliver that compensation , but that the term of how we do so , and how we respond to translate those 18 recommendation into reality , be ongoing work that I will seek to address substantively as soon as possible by 20 May . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on secure an urgent question on this vital issue . nobody could fail to be move by the scale of the horror and injustice of this scandal . the late revelation about apparent experiment on child , to which the urgent question relate , be truly appalling and show yet again how badly the victim have be let down . I pay tribute to all those who have campaign so hard on the issue . as part of deliver the justice that be so long overdue , the Government must now deliver on the compensation scheme . time be of the essence : every week that pass without further Government action matter . those who be infect with contaminate blood be die at a rate of one every four day . minister have repeatedly accept the moral case for compensation , but victim understandably have little faith and want to see firm action . that be why Labour be very disturbed to hear that the Government have table an amendment to undo the cross - party change to the Victims and Prisoners Bill pass by this House in December last year . the change that the Government want would have the effect of remove a clear commitment to deliver on the compensation scheme within three month of the Bill ' s pass — yet another miss opportunity ; yet another delay . I would be grateful if the Minister answer the follow question . will the Government now consider accept the cross - party consensus of establish a clear three - month limit for the setting up of the scheme ? can the Minister confirm when victim can expect to receive final compensation payment follow the publication of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s review ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . respectfully , the amendment table by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North be dependent on Royal Assent . I have try to make it effective by put an obligation on the set - up as soon as Royal Assent be grant , which will speed it up . I be work on operational matter around how such a body would work . the hon . Lady ask I , as everyone do , about the Government ' s substantive response on compensation more broadly . as I have indicate , I appoint the expert group in January to examine some of the issue in the recommendation , such as the need for redress for those live with chronic hepatitis B when that chronic infection definition do not exist . I have be seek professional advice on the operationalisation of the recommendation . the conclusion of those deliberation , and the quantification and discernment of compensation , will be a matter for the Government when the final report have be publish . like other , I have case that have be wait decade for a resolution , and which be pursue by my predecessor . when will those affect be able to start apply for compensation ? I refer my hon . friend to my reply a few moment ago about the £ 100 , 000 payment to the estate of deceased infected person . the ultimate compensation will depend on what be arrange through conversation across Whitehall as soon as possible after 20 May . we be make good progress , and I want to bring that forward as quickly as I can after 20 May . give the will of the House and the letter sign by so many mp , it be pretty clear that it be on the Government to deliver , and that be what I be seek to do as quickly as I can . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have do so much , and to journalist such as Caroline Wheeler of the Sunday Times and all those who have campaign for decade , despite their own very deep trauma . they include Jan Smith , the mother of Colin , one of the young victim who be infect at only 10 month old , and who die aged only seven . she say in the Sunday Times at the weekend : " when we find out little Colin be go to be treat by a world - renowne haematologist we be over the moon . Professor Bloom be like a God to we and we didn ' t question he . we think our son be be give the good possible treatment . but we will feel forever guilty that we have in fact hand our son over to his killer . " these parent should not be burden with this guilt . an estimated 380 child be infect in a massive breach of trust and medical ethic . it be every parent ' s bad nightmare . what do the Minister say to the parent of child who be use as guinea pig , in an utterly despicable practice that be make bad by the lack of redress for those family ? when will all those infected and affect receive the compensation they be due , and an apology from this Government ? I can reassure the hon . Lady that I be do everything I can to bring that forward as quickly as possible . I recognise that the distress be widespread and be feel by individual and family across the United Kingdom . I be work across the devolved administration to ensure that there be a UK - wide arm ' s length body . my official be work with prominent charity , organisation and support group . I be reach out to they to share progress , reassure the community that I have hear their concern and seek their view in advance of 20 May . I be do that out of deep respect for the suffering that they have experience . on the substantive matter the hon . Lady ask I about , I refer she to my reply a few moment ago . when I be Health Secretary , I commit the Government to ensure that the compensation recommend by Sir Brian be pay , and make the moral case that the UK Government must address this wrong . the story from Caroline Wheeler and Hugh Pym have make that moral case strong still . can I push the Minister to move as fast as possible , but hold in his mind the critical nature of get the response right as well ? I commend his official , who have work so hard on this matter for so long . I entirely understand the need for urgency , but he must get it right at the same time . he be a diligent and deeply honourable man , and I hope he will hold that in his heart as he address the issue in the week to come . I thank my right hon . friend for his remark and for what he have do on this matter . he be right : I feel responsibility both to get the substantive announcement agree as quickly as possible and to ensure clear communication with the infected and affected community so that they have clear expectation of what will happen follow that announcement . from all I have read and all that my official have brief I on , I recognise that this be likely to be one of the big scandal in the NHS that this country have see . I respect Sir Brian Langstaff and his extensive work over several year . I wait respectfully for his final report on the wide issue on 20 May . my constituent contact I again yesterday . his father and uncle be all infect with contaminate blood , and all but two of the uncle have now die . he say to I : " I have to grow up in care due to my father be too ill to look after I . we have be fight for many , many year for justice . " he think that the Government be drag their foot on compensate victim . he be right , isn ' t he ? all I can do be account for what I have do since 13 November . I can not really comment on the several decade previous to that . as the hon . Lady will know , we have have a series of ad hoc scheme , but the Government ' s accept culpability for what happen many year ago and the subsequent failure to respond will need to be address fully after 20 May . the Government ' s amendment in the House of Lords be the first time that we will have put in legislation a duty to pay compensation . that be the start of a more comprehensive response that I be work on to secure collective agreement across Government , and I want to bring that forward as quickly as I be able to do so . the Langstaff recommendation for interim payment be because of the need for speed ; because people be so ill . how many people do the Government believe to be still live who be infect in this scandal ? how many of they apply for the interim payment ? what proportion of those who apply have receive the payment ? if my right hon . friend do not have the figure with he today , will he undertake to write to I and place a copy of the letter in the House of Commons Library ? my right hon . friend customarily ask precise and penetrate question . I do not want to quote the few figure that I think I know , so I will write he a consider reply , which I will make available . far too many people have suffer and far too many have die . we need to put this right as quickly as possible . I congratulate the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) on her work to date . when I engage with my constituent , it be clear that not only have they lose love one to a preventable and painful death , but the stigma that those love one live with during their life be part of the issue . member across the House rightly want answer about the interim payment , because those family have receive no compensation and no apology to date . if the Minister can not give a date that people can expect payment , can he at least give some clarity on how they will be able to apply ? first , I agree entirely with the hon . Lady with respect to the stigma . one can not fail to be move by the account of people in the 1980 ; when they contract HIV , the stigma in society be very different from where we be today . that have cause damage to relationship , to life , and obviously to health — many people ' s case have be terminal . the statutory duty to make interim payment of £ 100 , 000 to the estate of deceased infected people will be carry out through the exist scheme . we be work with those scheme to work out how good to do that . that be different from recommendation 12 , in that the Government take the view that we do not want to overwhelm the will of the estate — rather than divide it up among family member , which could be problematic and would cause delay . while I can not give an authoritative date now , urgent work be ongoing to give clarity on the process for those people to register and to receive those payment . the infected blood scandal be one of the big stain on the history of the NHS . I be pleased to hear that we be get interim payment out as quickly as possible , but the Minister have talk about give payment to deceased people ' s estate rather than name individual . could he outline his reasoning ? we want to make sure that compensation go to the correct people quickly . my hon . friend make a very good point . one of the challenge be that some cohort of people be not register but have be part of a scheme that do not now exist . how do we well expedite the process across that affected community ? those be the sort of practical issue that I be work through with official , so that we can reach the good possible solution when we give our comprehensive response in due course . " cheap than chimpanzee " be how former pupil of Treloar ' s school describe themselves when they give evidence to the inquiry . my constituent , Lee Moorey , be one of the pupil of that school , and have describe to I how he feel that he be experiment on all those year ago . we have set up the Brian Langstaff inquiry ; what more can the Government possibly want to know than what that inquiry be go to uncover , and why be they delay compensation ? will the Minister confirm that nothing have be prevent the Government from pay compensation since the date that Brian Langstaff publish his interim report last April ? there be a challenge in translate 18 recommendation into number and into the reality of a transmission mechanism , as well as in the quantification and agreement across Whitehall . the work on the first part be under way : that be why we have engage the expert to work out how to quantify the payment that will be due across different head of loss . quite reasonably , those number be not in the report — it would not be for Sir Brian Langstaff to put number on every single individual — but that work be under way . we be now work to agree the substantive response as soon as we can after the final report be publish . this week , I will be use the mechanism of this House to do something that , in 14 year as an MP , I have never before feel the need to do : present a petition . at the top of that petition will be the name of my constituent , Andrew Evans , one of the child who be infect with hepatitis and HIV . by a miracle , he survive to set up and help run the tainted blood campaign . like many of my affected and infected constituent , he feel that this process have already go on for too long , so I be very grateful to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for secure this urgent question . I be also grateful to my right hon . friend the Minister for the update he have give , particularly about support for the estate of the deceased . however , I urge he to continue to meet group such as Tainted blood and make sure that the communication on this issue be as clear and open as possible , so that those group be engage and can support their member as the process move forward — and to do so as fast as possible . I thank my hon . friend , both for what he have say today and for his engagement privately in recent week . I agree with everything he have say , and I have hear his challenge to be clear about communication to prominent charity , organisation and support group . letter be send by my official yesterday evening to set up those meeting . I have talk to cross - party representative of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , seek input on the name of group . I be try to respect their confidence while also meet as many representative group as possible , and to do that well before 20 May . this be surely the bad health scandal that we have see , with Government after Government kick the can down the road . we need to accept that there be a need for change , include a change in speed and urgency . the continue delay and prevarication — I regret to say that it feel like we have see some more of that today — exacerbate the suffering . we know that two people be die every week . the Minister must know that the delay on this issue be indefensible , and he must know its impact . do he appreciate why such a large number of member be push for action now , and do he understand that that be what we need he to deliver ? yes , I do understand that . I deeply respect the view of colleague who have make strong representation on this matter , and I be do everything I can to move it forward as urgently as I can . I will not repeat myself regard the thing I have say with respect to step take last week , or the spirit in which I be engage and the reason why I be do it , but I agree with the hon . Lady that speed be absolutely of the essence . there have be a lot of speculation in article in recent day — and , most prominently , in Caroline Wheeler ' s book — about the wide issue : what go wrong and why these thing happen . those matter will need to be address , but through the lens of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , which will be publish finally on 20 May . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) not just for secure this urgent question , but for all the work that she and other in this place have do on this important matter . Sir Brian Langstaff make his final recommendation on compensation early — a whole year ago — and recommend that the compensatory body make payment by last December . he do so because he be worried about the effect of a delay on the affected and infect . we have miss all of those deadline ; be this what Sir Brian ' s bad fear look like ? I sincerely hope not . what I have say with respect to the interim payment be a response to the dialogue I have have with member across both Chambers of the House , work with Earl Howe in the other place . I have be pretty clear that in I be do everything I can to put preparation in place for give a legal entity the obligation to pay compensation , and to minimise delay in advance of the final determination of the Government ' s response , so that that response can be operationalise as soon as the decision be finally make . every time we have these urgent question , we get a well - intentione Minister give a helpful but frustrating update about what be happen . this Minister be one of the most well intentione , and today ' s statement have be one of the most helpful , but what we want to hear — as the House have say clearly today — be a clear timeline for when application for compensation can be make and when those payment will be make . he have come really close to tell we that today ; can I encourage he to get over the line , tell we when it be go to happen , and satisfy all of we who be stand here on behalf of our constituent ? the hon . Gentleman make a very fair and reasonable point . I would wish to say more than I be say today , but we have not quite get to that point ; I be do everything I can to get there . on the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point about the mechanic of engagement with community , I be very seized of the need to have a clear narrative for each different cohort , so that we can be crystal clear when those decision be make . I recognise how frustrating this be . obviously , agree , quantify and make provision for those thing be a collective process across Government , and I be do everything I can , use my experience from several year in the Treasury . it be helpful that the Chancellor of the Exchequer be Health Secretary when the public inquiry be set up , and I be work with colleague across Whitehall to deliver this as quickly as I can . one of the most upsetting aspect of this whole tragedy be the thought of those pupil at Treloar School be experiment on like " lab rat " , as one of the pupil say . they include brother Michael and Bill Payne , and I meet their widow Cath and Margaret over the Easter recess in Bristol . I accept that the Minister be try to give detailed answer and that there be complexity , but what it really come down to be the deep , deep wrong that be do to those little boy at Treloar ' s , and compensation and apology be owe to those people . can I ask what the Minister be do to communicate as clearly and effectively as possible with the family of those affect , so that they feel they be not be swamp by bureaucracy and that answer be close at hand ? I have reach out to prominent charity , organisation and support group to share the progress that have be make — I have to respect the fact that we need to do that through the parliamentary process last Wednesday — and to seek their view , but not to replicate the considerable trauma that they go through give evidence in an incredibly painful fashion through Sir Brian Langstaff ' s inquiry . I be meet those charity , organisation and support group . I obviously can not meet every single individual , but I be try to use those meeting to inform the response of the Government and to make representation to my colleague about what need to be do so that we can land this in the most effective place as soon as we can from 20 May . do the Minister recognise that many people feel that the state , with all its delay in deliver justice to the victim of this scandal and their family , have utterly fail to recognise adequately the egregious harm that have be inflict and continue to be inflict on those impact , leave ten of thousand of victim and their family in great suffering as they continue to wait for compensation ? yes , I recognise that all delay be painful and frustrating and cause distress . that be why I be do everything I can to move this forward as quickly as I can . I be sorry that that be repetitious , but it be the truth . I think I have update the House meaningfully today on the legislation . I know what we need to do , which be to get to 20 May and , as soon as possible , come up with a comprehensive response on behalf of all those who have lose their life and the family who have be ruin by this absolute scandal that have happen over 50 year . may I also give my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for secure this urgent question ? it give I the opportunity to raise the case of my constituent Mark Fox , who contract hepatitis C from infected blood when he be give a transfusion . he be just four year of age at the time . he be give contaminate factor VIII for his haemophilia . he be unaware of his hepatitis c diagnosis until he be 17 , when he be in care . he have be live with the health consequence of this scandal for over 40 year . he lose his job , and we have mention the stigma . I say with all due respect to the Minister , because I know he be do his good , that interim payment will offer a way of bring relief to some of the survivor . Mark have ask I to ask the Minister how many more year he will have to wait before he receive either an interim payment or full and fair compensation for the suffering that he have endure . I thank the hon . gentleman for his heartfelt representation on behalf of his constituent Mark Fox , and I be sincerely sorry for what he have experience . I be do everything I can to bring as much clarity as possible , but I can not give the hon . Gentleman a definitive timetable today . I be work towards — I hope — give a definitive timetable at the point of , or very soon after , the publication of this final report . I will do everything I can to bring clarity to all group involve . it have be seven year and we have have four Prime Ministers since this public inquiry be set up , and there have be many decade wait before then . surely the Minister will agree that the story of child be impact be tantamount to state - sponsor abuse — abuse similar to that suffer by my constituent Linda Cannon , whose husband die after a contaminated blood transfusion , and Vera Gaskin , who have stage 2 cirrhosis of the liver . Sir Brian Langstaff say that it would clearly take political will to act quickly , and the circumstance here warrant that . when will the victim — our constituent and their family — get compensation and justice ? surely the Minister recognise that issue such as these , whether it be Primodos , the Post Office scandal or contaminate blood , be take decade and re - traumatising our constituent while they wait and often die before get justice . it be not good enough . I very much recognise what the hon . Lady be say with respect to the impact of time on suffering , and I want to bring this forward as quickly as I can . I be do that work and sponsor work to gain the advice we need to make informed decision that will allow we to make the wide possible decision in a few week ' time . I too be speak on behalf of a constituent , who lose a brother and sister - in - law and whose nephew be leave to be bring up by the family . I want to raise the urgency of this . I appreciate the Minister ' s sincerity about what he be try to do , and the fact that he have be in post for only a few month , but it be over a year now since Sir Brian Langstaff bring forward his report and say that interim payment be absolutely essential . I be try to understand exactly where the block be . if this be a priority for the Government , it would have be do in that year , so where be the block ? there be not a block . last year , there be a process of look at how we could work out the cost and the way of translate and operationalise the recommendation . that work be well under way , and Professor Sir Jonathan Montgomery and his team be help with that . as I say , I hope that in a few week ' time we can get to a point where we will be able to make a substantive assertion of the Government ' s position . build trust and confidence require the support of the infected and affected community . can the Minister confirm that the independent body ' s executive will include representation from infected and affected people ' s group who can make decision on process , eligibility and decision making in order to build trust and confidence ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his engagement with I last week as one of the co - chair of the APPG , when he make a similar point . I be reflect carefully on what it take to satisfy the recommendation to have a body independent of Government while also secure as much authority and as much confidence among the different community involve as possible . I will update the House on that in due course . my caseworker Paula be leave bereave as a teenager after her father be kill by HIV and hepatitis from infected blood product . she have suffer enormously since , include be bully at school as a result of the stigma around HIV . she be now in her 40 and battle cancer , but despite the recommendation from Sir Brian Langstaff ' s inquiry a year ago in April 2023 that the child who lose parent should be award interim compensation , she have yet to receive a penny . how much long will the Government keep victim such as Paula wait ? I very much hope that we will be able to make a clear assessment of what we be go to do in a matter of week . I be do everything I can to be clear about depict for each different group , include some go back 40 or 50 year , what the process will be go forward . we owe that to all the victim and their family , and I will try and be as comprehensive as I can in that response when it come . do the Minister think that the Prime Minister and senior Ministers will be attend the launch of the report on 20 May ? I do not know . I have not have those conversation yet . if a representative of the Government be ask to be there , I be absolutely sure that that will be the case . if it be I , I will be very happy to attend . I thank the Minister for his answer , and for his clear commitment to deliver for all those with severe health problem . do he not agree that read some of the information supply by the BBC feel more like read about a national regime ' s atrocity than read about action by our own healthcare professional in the 1980 ? it be quite distressing . how do the Minister believe that we can ever restore confidence in a process and procedure that allow this to happen , and what assurance can the general public have that it could never happen again ? when Sir Brian Langstaff publish his report — and I have absolute confidence in the authority of the report that he will publish — that will be the time for a response from the Government on the wide implication of what go on and what evidence Sir Brian have gather . as I say at the start of my response , we may have see some element of that in recent day , but I want to ensure that the Government respond authoritatively , and as fully as possible , when the moment of publication come . Childcare Entitlements with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the successful first stage of the large ever expansion of childcare in England ' s history , achieve by this Government . the Government have a strong track record of help parent with the cost of childcare , support disadvantaged child and ensure that childcare be of high quality , with 96 % of early year setting rate as good or outstanding by Ofsted . in 2010 we extend the three and four - year old entitlement , commonly take as 15 hour a week for 38 week of the year ; in 2013 we introduce 15 hour of free early education a week for disadvantaged two - year - old ; in 2017 the three and four - year old entitlement be double to 30 hour per week for work parent ; and in March 2023 , recognise that childcare be one of the big cost face work family today , my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce the big investment in childcare by a UK Government in history , so that by September 2025 work parent will be able to access 30 hour of free childcare a week from when their child be nine month old until they start school . by the time this expansion be complete , parent use the full 30 hour can expect to save an average of £ 6 , 900 a year , a hugely significant saving for their family finance . we be stagger the expansion to ensure that there be the staff and place available to meet parental demand , and this month mark the first stage of the roll - out , with eligible work parent now able to receive 15 hour of government - fund childcare for their two - year - old for the first time . last month my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education tell the House that we expect 150 , 000 child to benefit from the expansion from the beginning of this month . as we say in our official statistical report , 195 , 355 parent be already benefit from it on 17 April , and we have subsequently break the 200 , 000 mark . we will publish further official statistical report in due course . as member will know , the system involve parent apply for a code that they take to a provider to be validate in order to obtain a place . the first phase of the roll - out be show a trajectory similar to that of our last expansion of childcare , in 2017 . on 5 September 2017 , 71 % of code have be validate ; as of 17 April this year , 79 % have be validate , and we have break 81 % as of this week . with every roll - out , some eligibility code go unused for a variety of reason , such as parent change their mind about formal childcare , or be issue with a code automatically although they do not need one . in the case of our well - establish offer for three and four - year - old , about 12 % of code have not be validate , but as with previous roll - out , we expect the number of child benefit from this new entitlement — and the number of code validate — to grow in the come week and month . as be the case in 2017 , no local authority be report that they do not have enough place to meet demand . I pay tribute to early year provider , local authority , membership body and other key stakeholder who have work closely with we to ensure that the first phase of the roll - out be successful and parent could access place , and we will continue to work closely with they for the next phase of the roll - out . the first of those will begin in September , but parent will be able to start apply for 15 hour of childcare for their nine - month - old from 12 May . I be also delighted to announce that parent on parental leave , and those who be start new job in September , will be able to apply for childcare place from 12 May , instead of have to wait until 31 day before their first day of work , as have be the case until now . deliver such a large expansion require more staff and more childcare place . we estimate that we will need 15 , 000 more place and 9 , 000 more staff by September 2024 , and that for September 2025 , which be the large phase of the roll - out , a further 70 , 000 place and 31 , 000 staff will be need . last year the number of childcare place increase by about 15 , 000 , and the number of staff by about 13 , 000 , even before the roll - out begin and before the significant step that the Government be take , begin with rate , to increase capacity in the sector . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have independently confirm that funding for the new two - year - old entitlement be significantly high than average parent - pay fee . accord to the Government ' s provider pulse survey publish last week , the large barrier identify by the sector — by 45 % of respondent — to expansion of its provision be future funding certainty , a message that I have hear clearly from the many provider I have visit in recent month . in his 2024 Budget , the Chancellor commit himself to ensure that funding rate for all entitlement would increase in the 2025 - 26 and 2026 - 27 financial year by the measure use last year . that estimate £ 500 million of additional funding over those two year will provide a level of certainty that we be confident will help to unlock ten of million of pound in private sector investment , ensure that rate keep up with provider cost pressure , and give provider a great opportunity to increase staff pay . this year , to support recruitment to the sector , we launch a £ 6 . 5 million recruitment campaign entitle " do something big . work with small child " , and thousand of people be visit the campaign website every week to find out more about the great early year and childcare career that be available . in January we introduce change to the early year foundation stage to give provider great flexibility to attract and retain staff , and yesterday we launch a technical consultation set out the Department ' s proposal for how a new " experience - base route " could work for early year staff who have relevant experience from other sector but do not have the full and relevant qualification that we require . owe to the fall birth rate over recent year , some primary school have space that they be no long use , and some have close entirely . in order to support our expansion of childcare , we have launch a pilot to explore how some of the unused school space could be repurpose to enable childcare setting to offer more place . if the pilot be a success , the Government will roll that out more widely . our progress in deliver this transformative expansion in early education and childcare underscore this Government ' s unwavere dedication to empower family , support the childcare sector , and build a prosperous future . I look forward to Labour Members welcome this month ' s news and / or finally tell we what their plan for childcare be , and I commend my statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , but with red light flash across the board , this be a weak attempt by the Government to defend their bungle expansion of childcare provision . the opposition be absolutely clear in our commitment to build a modern childcare and early year education system , and be put quality at the heart of our vision . we support the expand entitlement , but there be serious question about whether the Government ' s plan be deliverable . ever since the Chancellor ' s announcement in the 2023 Budget , parent and the early year sector have be cry out for a detailed and credible plan for the roll - out of the expansion , but the Government have consistently dismiss concern and act as if there be no problem when the problem be clear to see . today ' s statement be yet another desperate attempt by the Government to avoid scrutiny of their childcare plan ; it come just hour before what we understand to be a highly critical report from the National Audit Office . it would have be far well if the Minister have come to the House follow the publication of the NAO report , so that hon . member could properly scrutinise his response to it . the Department ' s own modelling suggest that an extra 85 , 000 childcare place and 40 , 000 additional full - time equivalent staff will be need by September 2025 . that be a huge challenge when provider across the country be already struggle to recruit the skilled staff that they need ; many be on the brink of closure . the Department ' s recently publish pulse survey , which the Minister be quote in aid , find that two third of all group - base provider and staff of school - base provider continue to experience staffing problem , with little change since 2022 . nine in 10 provider respond to the survey have either reduce the number of place that they offer last year , or keep the same number of place . similarly , datum from Ofsted show that in the six month follow the Chancellor ' s original announcement , childcare place fall by more than 1 , 000 . how can the Minister credibly claim that everything be on track when that be the feedback from the sector ? Coram ' s annual survey of childcare provider be also clear about the Government ' s failure . just 28 % of local authority be confident that they will have enough place for the expansion to child from the age of nine month ; that be almost three quarter of community where parent will not be able to access the childcare that the Government have promise . across every age group and category , Coram find a fall in the number of local authority able to deliver sufficient childcare in their area . some 87 % of area see the workforce crisis as the big barrier to the expansion , but there be still no detailed workforce plan from the Government . just 6 % of area be confident that they will have sufficient childcare for disabled child , which be a truly shameful failure . we need a serious plan to ensure childcare expansion be a success for child , parent and provider . the Opposition be clear that we will be lead by the evidence . that be why we have commission Sir David Bell to review the challenge face the sector and inform our plan for future reform . how many of the code that the Minister ' s Department issue in the April expansion have translate into provision of a childcare place ? where be the additional £ 500 million of investment announce in the Budget be fund from , and what be be cut to provide that funding ? what urgent discussion be he have with the early year sector about the impact of the April expansion on its financial sustainability ? will he guarantee today that every family will be able to access a childcare place follow the plan further expansion in September — yes or no ? child ' s voice be not hear often enough in this place , so on their behalf , I warn Ministers : childcare and early education be too important to be put at risk by the mess they be make . the issue today be not simply about place , the staff in our nursery or even work choice for parent , but life chance for our child . minister must , for the sake of all our child , get a plan in place now . well , I do not hear a plan there , Madam Deputy Speaker . it ' s not our job — the shadow spokesperson say it be not her job . with a general election later this year , it be not her job to have a plan . staffing have go up by 13 , 000 people before we even start the expansion . our winter survey show that at the end of last year , application for vacancy at group - base provider go up from two for each vacancy to five for each vacancy . I do not entirely hear the question ask by the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , but I think she ask how many child have receive something as a result of the expansion — if that be not her question , I will write to she . the answer be 200 , 000 and counting . we expect the number to go up in the come week and month , as it have with other expansion . the funding for 2025 - 26 and 2026 - 27 increase to rate will come from day - to - day spending . the April expansion be the point at which provider will see a significant increase in their rate . by the way , that increase be £ 4 more per hour than parent be currently pay for under - twos provision . that be a significant increase in the rate that be be provide . just as I be confident about the April roll - out , which have now be deliver , despite all the noise and snipe from the Opposition Benches , I be confident about the September roll - out . the shadow Secretary of State have say that the hour model have fail and that we should move away from it . she say that she would have a childcare plan that would be like the creation of the NHS . nobody know what that mean , and 15 month later , it seem that neither do she , because she have have to ask somebody to write a plan for she instead . the truth be that while this Conservative Government have just successfully deliver the first stage of their childcare expansion , which 200 , 000 parent be benefit from , Labour still have no plan , no policy and no idea how to help family with childcare . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . there be much in this statement to be welcome . the Education Committee welcome the expansion of childcare , broaden the offer , and the increase in funding for the fund hour , and this deliver on some of that . it be an early success story , but as the Opposition have say , there be clearly serious risk as the plan expand exponentially over the come year . in order to address those risk , the Minister need to secure more funding and more place . the 13 , 000 place be a welcome start and more staff in the sector be vital , but can he assure I that on top of the very welcome half a billion pound that be secure in the spending review , he will keep make the case and keep listen to the provider about the funding they need to keep move this forward ? can he ensure that the same quantum of increase be there for the under two - year - old as it be for the two - year - old , compare to what be currently pay in the private sector ? I thank my hon . friend for raise some important issue . he be right that certainty and increase those rate have be some of the most important thing that the sector have ask for . it be very warmly receive that we be provide that certainty for 2025 - 26 and 2026 - 27 , which we think will help the sector . accord to various report that have be carry out , it will help they to unlock private sector investment and capital to help they expand , because that be the big thing they feel might be hold that back . it be part of a doubling of the amount that we be spend on childcare , from £ 4 billion to £ 8 billion . I will continue to work with my hon . friend in ensure we address the sector ' s need . I start by declare an interest as a parent of a two - year - old child . what all of we parent be talk about be the cost of childcare , and the Minister do not address the cost . the survey clearly show that over half of all nursery and pre - school say that the funding do not cover the cost of provide the service in the way that the Government be ask they to provide it . it do not take a rocket scientist to work out that somebody ' s get to pick up the bill — a toddler could do it . the estimate before the Government announce the new hour be that fee would rise by 8 . 5 % . every single parent of a child in a nursery in my local community who have come to I have say that their fee have go up as a direct result of this policy , because that be how nursery be try to stay open and make end meet . will the Minister prove I wrong ? will the Minister commit to publish the datum on the fee that parent of all child under five in nursery and pre - school be pay in this country , prior to and post the change in hour ? we have a survey of 6 , 000 parent and 9 , 000 provider to set our rate base on exactly what they be pay . the hon . Lady must have miss my saying that our rate for under - two be over £ 4 more per hour than that pay by a parent privately . I know that she do not like these fact , because they be at odd with her narrative . she ask I to prove she wrong ; this month , we have just do so . the expansion of government - fund childcare be go to be a major benefit to many family in my Chelmsford constituency , so on the first day of the expansion I go to visit Scallywags Nursery , one of the many outstanding childcare provider in my constituency . I be overwhelm by how happy and love the child be . they would like to expand , but they rent premise from the local council , which be run by the Lib Dems who write to I last night say the council will not give more space to expand this amazing nursery . be there any capital funding available to help nursery expand ? that sound like typical behaviour from a Lib - Dem council . at the end of last year , we allocate £ 100 million in capital funding — every local authority get some of it — precisely to help provider like the one my right hon . friend describe to expand , upgrade their building and so on . I would take that answer and see what the council be do with that money . last year , 3 , 000 childminder leave the sector , with the Early Years Alliance estimate that the current offer for three and four - year - old be underfunde by £ 1 . 8 billion . that be impact hard - work parent , particularly in rural area such as the one I represent . Amelia , a provider in Cullompton , let I know that Devon get just £ 5 . 20 of funding per hour for the care of three to four - year - old , which be way below the rate in some urban area . Westminster , for example , get a rate of £ 8 . 17 per hour . what will the Minister do to address that imbalance and ensure that people struggle with the cost of childcare in rural area be not short - change ? in September we put in more than £ 200 million to increase rate , and in April we have put in a furth £ 400 million to increase rate , in part to help provider meet the cost of the 9 . 7 % increase in the national living wage that the Government have make , so rate be go up . specifically on childminder , we have be do a few thing . we have a childminder grant scheme to try to encourage more childminder into the sector , and we have also be consult on thing that would make their life easy and more flexible , and allow they to be part of more network , so that we can grow what be an important part of the childcare market . to listen to the gloomster on the Opposition Benches , anyone would think that childcare policy be a triumph under the last Labour Government . in 2010 , widespread fund childcare be just not a thing , and where the Labour Government do provide subsidy , they be in school latch on to nursery , in direct competition to independent provider . among the expansion , which I very much welcome , what be be do to help workplace provider , particularly in place such as hospital where we have public service worker in short supply who be work irregular hour and can not necessarily use mainstream nursery ? what be the Minister do to try to encourage more man into the profession , too ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : we inherit some family be able to get 12 . 5 hour of childcare . thank to the Government ' s expansion , they will now be able to get 30 hour each week from when their child be nine month old until they start school . my hon . friend raise two other important issue . first , on people who work irregular pattern , it be important to say that we do not require the childcare pattern to be 9 to 3 ; we want that flexibility for people work awkward hour , and to make it easy to have that provision in other setting . he be also entirely right about try to encourage more man into the sector . in addition to our big recruitment campaign just to get more people into the sector , we have a specific focus on try to encourage more man . for all the Minister ' s glib response , he have fail to address the fact that the child ' s organisation Coram have report that just 6 % of local area have sufficient childcare place for child with special educational need and disability . what be he do to ensure that all child with additional need in constituency such as mine can access childcare and that provider have the staff , the resource and the space they need to do so ? I do not think the hon . Lady have listen to the content of any of the answer I have give . we work with every local authority in the country . local authority have a statutory duty to ensure that there be a number of place available , and we work with every local authority to ensure that they have sufficient place , include for child with special educational need . not a single local authority be report that it do not have sufficient place . I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , particularly because in Basingstoke two in three parent of two - year - old be already use childcare , so they can apply for and benefit from this extra support . will he talk a little more about how this will help give more parent the opportunity to get back into employment , which can be particularly important for we when we be look to address the gender pay gap ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the thing that might happen with this expansion be that parent will for the first time have childcare for their two - year - old . the other thing be that , because they can claim 15 hour , they might increase the hour they be already pay for , to relieve the pressure on their finance . so she be absolutely right about the labour market impact . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that it expect 60 , 000 people to enter the workforce and 1 . 5 million to increase their hour as a result of be able to access this childcare , which will be a huge benefit to the economy . Childcare in Northern Ireland be in a critical condition , and we be not even receive these new change , flaw as they may be . on Saturday , I join thousand of parent on a march in Belfast demand immediate intervention , because £ 10 , 000 a child per year be far from unusual . the Northern Ireland Executive promise that that would be a day one priority , but they have not deliver more than warm word . one interim solution could be raise the £ 2 , 000 tax - free limit — even just in line with inflationary pressure , as apply to other benefit — certainly for Northern Ireland parent who miss out on what the Minister have just outline . will he commit to explore that with the Treasury in order to , in his word , " empower " parent ? the precise parameter for that be set by the Treasury , but we would like more people to claim that tax - free childcare , because many people could claim it but do not do so at that level — and , of course , it be double for child with SEND . People can have that with the exist entitlement in England , which can far boost their finance . we be keen to encourage people to do that . to declare an interest , my young son Rupert , who be two , enjoy his first day at pre - school last week under this scheme . I know from talk to many other parent across my constituency just how transformational this expansion of the childcare offer be . however , with Buckinghamshire , which be the natural and obvious place where people want to move to bring up their family , I fear that demand may well outstrip supply soon . we also have compete cost pressure from border London , where , when it come to recruitment , the challenge of move to an outer London borough to get London weighting at work be real . as my hon . friend continue his superb work in ensure that we have that expansion in childcare provision , will he ensure that county such as Buckinghamshire and other across the south - east be give special consideration , give those cost pressure ? I be delighted to hear that Rupert have be able to take advantage of the offer . my hon . friend be right that in different part of the country we see different rate require by provider , base on the cost they be face . that be why our rate be different in different part of the country . local authority have to pass through 95 % of what we give they to ensure that as much of that go to the provider as possible , but we will continue to ensure that they be set accord to what provider tell we they be have to pay , so that they have the money that they need . an increase number of constituent be come to I because they be struggle to access childcare when they need it , which be partly exacerbate by staff shortage and sickness and overstretched provider . however , I want to press the Minister on this point . he say in his statement that the estimate £ 500 million of additional funding will " ensure that rate keep up with provider cost pressure " . what modelling have be do to ensure that that be the case , particularly with reference to place such as Bristol , where we know that a lot of overhead will be high than in many other place outside London ? I do not expect he to have the figure at his disposal today , but will he promise to write to I to give I an assessment of what have be do in relation to Bristol ? yes , I will . the projection for the year 2025 - 26 and 2026 - 27 be base partly on economic condition at the time — a few factor go into they will determine those rate — but I will write to the hon . Lady about specifically what have be happen in Bristol to date . as a parent of a 20 - month - old , I know that this new entitlement will be very much welcome by many parent across Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire and will make a massive impact on many work family in particular . however , I also know there be challenge in get the right place for a child . with the Minister look at what more can be do to ensure we support the sector as much as possible and expand those place in Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire ? my hon . friend be right . our key focus be on ensure that place and staff be available in every area of the country , as we have show in April with 200 , 000 benefit from the new entitlement . we be pull every lever , in time for the roll - out next September and the September after , to up recruitment , up rate , encourage more people into the sector and help expansion to ensure that provision be there . I will start on a consensual point : it be not a bad thing that the Government want to extend early year childcare provision . we all want to see that and we want it to work . in answer to my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , the Minister say , however , that not a single local authority be tell he that there be not sufficient place , yet Coram say that 35 % of local authority — a decrease of 29 % since last year — report that there be sufficient childcare for child under two . both statement can not be correct , so why do Coram think that in some local authority there be insufficient place ? I have see those figure . many of these survey be base on a measure of confidence take at some point before the roll - out ; all I can tell the hon . Gentleman be that we work with those local authority all the way up to that roll - out , to ensure that they have those place . sometimes , when people say they be not confident , they turn out to be able to provide all those place . my point to the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , and now to the hon . Gentleman , be that since the expansion for April , no local authority be report that it do not have sufficient place . we will now work with they on the next stage of that expansion for September — the first 15 hour for nine - month - old and upwards — to ensure that that be the case again . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . last Friday the Prime Minister make a speech , not to this House , but to the press , describe what he refer to as a " sick note culture " , and imply that people who be economically inactive due to ill health or disability be not genuine , but malingerer . that be grossly offensive not only to people who be unable to work because of ill health but to the clinician care for they , as it question their professional integrity . it ignore the overwhelming evidence from epidemiologist such as Professor Sir Michael Marmot , which show that over the last 14 year we have become a sick nation , live short life and less of our life in good health . it be certainly not the compassionate approach that the Prime Minister say he be go to preside over . fundamentally , though , it ignore the sovereignty of Parliament . when can we expect the Government to bring the matter to the House so that we can question the Prime Minister on his assertion ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give notice of it . the Speaker have no power to compel the Prime Minister to come to the House . however , it be an important principle , set out in the ministerial code , that when Parliament be in session the most important announcement of Government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . the Speaker have be clear about that . I be sure those on the Treasury Bench will have note the hon . Lady ' s remark — I can see they focus on I — and will feed that back . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I seek your counsel ? my Business and Trade Committee now have oversight of arm control , and be step up to its duty by hold tomorrow its first hearing on arm export to Israel . some 20 day ago , we request that Ministers from the Department for Business and Trade and the Foreign Office come and give evidence . they do not reply ; they have to be chase last week , and on Friday tell we they be not prepared to attend . this be a topic of importance to the House , and it be also important that Ministers , in fulfil their legal responsibility , be politically accountable . what advice can you give I , at this late stage , to try to ensure that we have Ministers in front of the Select Committee tomorrow morning ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give I notice of it . again , attendance by Ministers before a Select Committee be not a matter for I or for the Speaker , but it be certainly true that Select Committees be entitle to expect timely reply from Ministers to invitation . again , I very much hope that those on the Treasury Bench have note the point that the right hon . Gentleman have raise and will feed they back . my other advice would be perhaps to raise the matter with the Leader of the House , who might be able to assist ; I suggest he pursue the matter that way . Neurodivergent Conditions ( Screening and Teacher Training ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about screen for neurodivergent condition in primary school ; to make provision about teacher training relate to neurodivergent condition ; and for connected purpose . I stand here in this Parliament to represent all those who need a different type of support because their brain work differently . the Bill I be present be one important step in get everyone the education they deserve . we have a principle in this country , and have have for more than a century , of a universal education system . ensure that we have proper , tailor provision for child with neurodivergent condition be a critical part of that education . society now recognise neurodiversity more than it ever have , and we certainly have a much more positive debate about neurodiversity than at any point in my lifetime . we have more recognition in society broadly of the strength that neurodiversity can bring and of the support that people with a neurodivergent condition need to thrive . I think that attitude over a generation have shift . I notice that myself : I be dyslexic , but for over 20 year I hide my dyslexia and I feel a sense of shame about it . now I see that as wrong , but that be how I feel . that impact of society ' s attitude have reduce . however , I be one of the lucky one . because I be good at math , I could get through school well and I get into an amazing university , where my dyslexia be identify . still today , only one in five dyslexic child have their dyslexia identify in school . Parliament and the law have not yet catch up with the change in society , and there be furth to go ; that be why I present this Bill . the Bill will make provision for , essentially , two thing . the first be the early identification in primary school — preferably in the first year of primary school — of neurodivergent condition , include not only dyslexia , but a broad spectrum of neurodivergent condition . only if we measure such thing and find out how each individual child ' s brain work can we well get tailor support for they . the second be the strengthening of teacher training . I recognise the work of the Minister and his predecessor to introduce specific requirement for neurodivergent condition to be part of the teacher training syllabus , but much more still need to be do . I also recognise his work in the Green Paper , publish last year , on the early identification of those condition , but still far too little happen . turn policy from a consultative Green Paper into action on the ground be critical . neurodivergent people often have the skill that be increasingly need in the world . the straight line thinking can be do by computer — artificial intelligence be accelerate that change yet more — but future job will need skill such as creativity , lateral thinking and enhance communication that be often more prevalent among those who be neurodiverse . it be great to see some employer , such as GCHQ , Deloitte , UBS and Universal Music , proactively hire neurodivergent people , but if people do not know that they have a condition , they will not be empower to do what be necessary to make the most of those extra skill . it be great to talk about the positive benefit that a neurodivergent condition can bring , but the stark reality be that child with such a condition be far more likely to be exclude from school and end up in the criminal justice system . academic describe that as the " school to prison pipeline " . shockingly , 97 % of child exclude from primary school have a special educational need , and 80 % of child caution or sentence in the youth justice system have a special educational need — 80 % . they be nearly all teenager . if their condition could be identify early , when they be five or six , then they could get the support they need . the impact on the nation ' s finance , let alone the impact on those individual , would be significantly improve . research consistently demonstrate the efficacy of early intervention to support neurodivergent child . for example , research by the Education Endowment Fund reveal that those who receive the Nuffield early language intervention programme make on average the equivalent of four month ' additional progress in language skill , compare with pupil who do not get access to NELI . the Department have fund access to NELI in many primary school , but not all . I welcome that , but there be more to do . that show the cost - effective nature of early intervention . technology be make early intervention more and more possible . through the power of AI , screening of all child will allow we to understand how their brain work and teacher well to help they , identify those who need a formal diagnosis at an early stage . that be critical . accord to a London School of Economics report publish last November , 15 % of child with special educational need and disability live in the most affluent decile , while only 6 % live in the most deprived . those statistic be important , because they show that the distribution of access to a formal diagnosis be clearly unfair . it can not be true that 15 % of child with SEND come from the most affluent decile , while only 6 % come from the least affluent . obviously , parent in the most affluent area be more likely to be able to pay for a diagnosis , so there be an issue of social justice here in term of access to provision . we must take action to ensure universal screening and identify who have these condition . we can then ensure a fairer distribution of formal diagnosis . I want to thank the huge number of campaigner , include many who be here today . I draw attention to the work of the Accessible Learning Foundation , which campaign both on policy and on the availability of screening in school . I also thank Dan Harris , and share his son ' s powerful story as an example of when this can go right . his son , the Joshie Man , be identify as autistic very early on in life . his parent be tell that he might never talk , but due to his love parent and their ability to get he the support he need , include the technology and his reader which he carry around with he , he can now communicate , learn how to ride a bike and help to cook meal . I be incredibly move to see in the past month or so that he can now speak a few word . that show what can happen if we get it right . as the Bill progress , I ask the Government to listen carefully to the evidence , the science and the datum , and ensure we get the access that child deserve , so that we have equality of opportunity in our education system for those whose brain think in a straight line and those who think differently . question put and agree to . order , that Matt Hancock , Yasmin Qureshi , Jim Shannon , Henry Smith , Holly Mumby - Croft , Jane Hunt , Andrew Selous , Tom Hunt , Kelly Tolhurst and Paul Bristow present the Bill . Matt Hancock accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June and to be print ( Bill 205 ) . football Governance Bill Second read [ relevant document : Ninth Report of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , Football Governance , HC 1288 , and the Government response , HC 1850 ; oral evidence take before the Culture , Media and Sport Committee on 16 January 2024 , Football Governance , HC 471 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be read a second time . football be part of our national life . over the year , english football have become a universal language . wherever you be , whatever country you be in , you be never far away from a fan of one of our great club . we be a global football powerhouse and our economy benefit : billion for the economy , investment in town and city across the country , and ten of thousand of job . our premier league be world lead . and the strength of our national game go far beyond the top tier . hundred of thousand of fan turn out every week and come together to support team up and down the football pyramid . football club be at the heart of our community . each and every Member will be able to testify to that . each member will also be able to testify to the fact that we have the good fan in the world . unfortunately , too many of those very same fan have be take for grant . too many fan have see their team ' s owner change club badge and colour without any fan input , or have see their club sell its stadium and up stick . too many fan have watch on as their club try to join closed - shop breakaway league against their wish . and too many fan have see their club struggle and even collapse under the weight of mismanagement and poor ownership . there have be 64 instance of club fall into administration since the Premier League be found in 1992 . clearly , not all club be feel the benefit of english football ' s global success and something have to change . we all want to see our national game prosper for generation to come , but if we want our club to thrive , fan have to be at their heart . if we want english football to remain a global success story , we have to ensure our pyramid be financially sustainable . I be proud to say that the Football Governance Bill will do exactly that . I congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend on bring forward this Bill . as she say , football go all the way down the football pyramid — not just in term of its quality , but in term of the entertainment it offer . do she agree that a classic example of that be the fantastic entertainment that Coventry City provide in the FA cup semi - final on Sunday ? despite the club temporarily not be part of the premier league , it be none the less clear not just to the Coventry City supporter in my constituency but to everyone that the financial health of club that be far down the football pyramid matter for the entertainment they can provide . do she agree ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right : that be a tremendous match . it show the importance of the football pyramid , and how it delight and disappoint fan across the country to see club go up and down . I thank the Government for bring forward this overdue Bill . Chesterfield have see the bad of football , with the former owner Darren Brown end up in jail for his crime against the club , which almost take it out of existence . under the ownership of the Chesterfield FC Trust , Chesterfield be now back where they belong — in the football league — after become champion of the national league this year . be it not the case that what our football club really need be to be run by people with a commitment to those club and a passion for they , rather than by people who be try to make a quick bob ? to address the point about the Bill be long overdue , the Labour party say for some time that it would do something about this issue but do absolutely nothing . since I have be Secretary of State , we have have a White Paper and a response to it , and we have draft a Bill at speed . we have introduce the Bill , and I be delighted that it be have its Second reading today . I recognise that the Labour party support the Bill , and I be very grateful for its collaboration . I be very pleased that Chesterfield be in a good place . we want to see ownership that work across the field . I be very proud that our Government be bring forward this Bill . other have opportunity to do so but do not , and it be very important . I shall support its Second reading tonight , because it be important to protect the football pyramid . the Bill talk about guarantee that fan will be consult on key decision that impact on they , which it will do in one respect , but fan of team low down the pyramid will be affect by the decision last week to get rid of FA cup replay , which be a lifeline for many club by provide opportunity to get a big draw at Anfield , Old Trafford or even Tottenham Hotspur Stadium . obviously this Bill will not touch on that , but do the Secretary of State have any comment on this issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , because those David and Goliath fixture be part of the magic of football . I know that replay have be a welcome source of income for small club throughout the year . I speak to the fa about this issue at Wembley on Saturday , but as he will know , these be decision for the football authority . this Bill will ensure that we have appropriate financial regulation in place . I be not go to mention my local football club — oh , all right , I will : walsall football club and Darlaston Town 1874 FC , which be celebrate its 150th anniversary . the shape of the Bill at the minute be due to the Minister sit next to the Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , who have engage with all member . I pay tribute to he for include all of we . it be a pity that the Secretary of State be look at the Bill in a party political way , because the Government have be in power for the last 14 year . let we all pay tribute to the right hon . member for Pudsey , who have do a fantastic job . in the next part of my speech , I be go to pay tribute to a large number of member who have play a considerable part . my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) have do a tremendous amount , as have many member from across the House , but I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , without whom we would not be in this position today . I be respond to a point about the delay . those on the Opposition Benches might criticise we for the delay , but the truth of the matter be that they can not legitimately do so , because they have an opportunity to take action and fail to take it . that be why we have take the action that we have . I agree with the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) that we should recognise that many people have play a considerable part in bring this Bill to fruition , because many people have champion these reform . I would like to mention again my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford , who be recently award a damehood . her voice and her work have be instrumental in get we to where we be today . as well as be chair of the fan - lead review , she have help lay the foundation . she have work very closely with I , and in particular with my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey , to make sure that this Bill be in the shape that it be as it come before the House today . my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , who be Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , have work with we in Government throughout the development of this Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( John Stevenson ) have be a powerful voice in this debate and press hard , along with other member of the Northern Research Group , to change the status quo . I would also like to recognise the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , who be my opposite number , and the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , both of whom have be engage throughout . I know that they be supportive of the ambition behind introduce a new regulator . particular thank should be extend to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , my hon . friend the Members for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) and for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) , the right hon . member for Walsall South , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) and for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , and many other in this House . I also thank the relevant all - party parliamentary group , the football authority , the Football Supporters Association , the fa , the Premier League and the EFL . everybody have play their part in make sure that this Bill be in the shape that it be as we bring it forward today . everybody know it take a village to develop a Bill of this size and scope , and credit be due to party across the House , across football , across academia and across business . hundred of people have give we their time and their insight to help get the regulator right , and for that I be extremely grateful . as member will know , the centrepiece of this Bill be a new , independent regulator with a clear and unambiguous purpose : to protect the game that we all love . the way to do that be by get football ' s house in order . to that end , the regulator will not interfere with matter on the pitch . instead , it will be focus tightly on governance , finance , ownership and fan . it will help club to build their resilience , while prevent team from fall into the wrong hand to begin with . the mighty Bristol Street Motors trophy winner , Peterborough United , contact I today to express their support for this Bill , but they suggest that it be vital that the independent regulator have the power and the ability to intervene on financial model arrangement . can the Secretary of State guarantee that the independent regulator will have those power ? the regulator will have significant power in relation to individual club and , when trigger by either the Premier League or the EFL , to the league themselves . it will have backstop power in order to look at the pyramid as a whole . I be always delighted to hear conversation about football take place here or anywhere else . the Secretary of State talk about club get their house in order . do she agree that an important part of that would involve club look at who their shirt sponsor be ? do she agree that shirt sponsorship by disposable vape company be wholly unacceptable , have no part in modern football , and set a really bad example to all our child ? we want they to love the game that matter so much to all of we . I be sure that over the course of this debate many member will raise issue of concern to they and their constituent . I emphasise that the Bill be about financial regulation , although I be very pleased that the Premier League have take action on gambling advertising on the front of shirt , which be something we look at very closely , and that the Government be take action on vaping and smoke more broadly . the Bill be tightly define and address financial regulation , and I be very pleased that we have introduce this legislation . the Secretary of State be exactly right about the financial aspect of this Bill , but we have to make sure that we get the balance right . we do not want to kill the golden goose that be the Premier League , and we want to make sure that we have growth in the sport , through the championship and the EFL . we have to consider the crowded calendar of european match , too . do she believe that the regulator will have the ability to chart that very fine line between UEFA , FIFA and her proposal ? that be go to be pretty tough . we do not want to do anything that damage the world - lead Premier League , which be worth £ 7 billion . People across the world look to the Premier League , and we have work very closely with the Premier League , the EFL and other to try to get the balance right . I have meet the executive extensively during this period , and I have meet all the club in the Premier League and the EFL to try to get the balance right . we be try to get a light - touch regime that allow the league to do what they be already do , but with a regulator . the Bill be all about financial regulation . the Secretary of State will understand that many of my constituent who support Everton be greatly concerned about the eight point deduction apply by the Premier League for breach of its profit and financial sustainability rule . Nottingham Forest face a two point deduction for similar breach , and other club have yet to face any sanction . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent and many other football fan that her commitment to support the Premier League do not mean that the Bill will not have sufficient strength ? do she share my concern that my constituent and many other be worried about a lack of transparency , consistency and fairness in the case of Everton and other club ? will she give reassurance on that point ? as I be make clear , the Bill be about financial regulation . I know that many fan be concern about issue within the game itself . the Bill will not regulate how football be play , which be a matter for the footballe authority . this be about ensure that club up and down the pyramid be financially sustainable under a regulator . if no deal be agree on distribution , the regulator can step in . this will protect the pyramid overall . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for mention I early . do she accept that one of the big driver of financial stability be the parachute payment in the championship ? do she think it be a flaw that the Bill exclude parachute payment from the regulator ' s power ? we understand that parachute payment have a role to play . there be provision in the Bill to deal with parachute payment , but that provision relate to the consideration on a club - by - club basis in the licensing regime itself . when club like Norwich City be promote to the Premier League , those parachute payment give they the confidence to invest , which drive competition in football . be they not a good thing that we should be support ? we believe that parachute payment have a role to play , although I know people have concern about distortion . under the Bill , if there be any issue relate to the finance of a particular club , particularly by reference to the parachute payment it might have receive , the regulator have an ability to look at that within the licensing regime as a whole . I have read the Bill , but I wonder whether the Secretary of State have read it . under clause 55 ( 2 ) ( b ) , the regulator be not allow to deal with " revenue that the specify competition organiser distribute to a club by virtue of a team operate by the club be relegate from a competition organise by the specify competition organiser . " in other word , parachute payment be deliberately exclude from the remit of the regulator . why have that be do when it be one of the most distortive element of the current arrangement ? I have be very intimately involve in this Bill , have put together all the policy recommendation and have discussion with all the party . I encourage the hon . member to read all aspect of the Bill , not just the provision in relation to the backstop , which he quote . I know many member feel that parachute payment be very important , so let I try to explain again . I know that many stakeholder have concern about the impact of parachute payment on financial stability , sustainability and resilience , and I know that parachute payment can play an important role in soften the financial blow of relegation at all level of the football pyramid . give the complexity of the issue , the regulator will need to undertake an holistic , evidence - base assessment of the system of financial distribution as part of its state of the game report , and this will include an assessment of parachute payment . parachute payment have be specifically exclude from the backstop mechanism to ensure that the two final proposal from the Premier League and the EFL be easily comparable . the impact of parachute payment on financial sustainability and resilience could be a relevant factor in both the decision to trigger the backstop and the final choice in relation to a proposal . more generally , the regulator can look at the impact of a parachute payment on a particular club when it come to the licensing regime . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will press on , as I have now answer five time on parachute payment . we will achieve our goal through the new licensing regime , under which all club in the top five tier of english man ' s football will need a licence to operate as professional football club . the regulator will have power to monitor and enforce requirement on financial regulation , club ownership , fan engagement and club heritage protection , as well as set a corporate governance code of practice and have the power to prohibit club from join breakaway competition . it be fantastic that the top five league will have to have a licence . will the Secretary of State comment on the resource that will be necessary to put that in place for the season ? this be a big undertaking , and considerable resource will be need to monitor what be go on . order . I know that some colleague who be intervene might not be seek to catch my eye later . I remind colleague that if they do intervene , it be customary for they to stay for the entire speech . the Government be very conscious of the impact on club , which be why we be give they time to prepare for the measure we be bring into play . on top of the new licensing system , the regulator will introduce a new strengthen owner and director test to make sure that a club ' s custodian be suitable , and to protect fan from irresponsible owner . this respond directly to grow concern about financial mismanagement in football , particularly illicit finance , as well as to fan fight back against owner at club like Blackpool and Charlton Athletic . the regulator will also bring in new , robust financial regulation to improve the financial resilience of club across the football pyramid . as member of this House will be all too aware , a lack of financial resilience be one of the key risk to club ' future . give the regulator power to oversee financial plan and to step in to require club to beef up their financial resilience , where it have concern , will prevent club from face cliff - edge situation like we recently see at Southend United . that will not mean that all club have to break even . we know that strive for success can come at a cost and that this ambition make the game so exciting , so we welcome sustainable , sensible investment . what we can not have be reckless overspending , irresponsible risk taking and inadequate funding . that be why the regulator will look at each club ' s plan and how they be fund , and ensure that club have the resource to manage their risk take . no long can we have short - term action jeopardise a club ' s long - term sustainability . the Secretary of State have mention fan engagement a couple of time . fan increasingly feel as though they be not be listen to by their club . the fan - lead review , which she have also refer to , make a series of recommendation in 2021 to give fan a real say in how their club be run . will she be clear as to how the Bill will ensure that club be effectively and properly engage with their fan and that fan ' voice be not be ignore ? the Bill identify a number of thing that we know be important to fan , include heritage asset such as the colour of shirt , badge and the location of a club ' s stadium . we know that those be the thing fan care about . the Bill ensure a proportionate approach , because we know that engagement with different fan at different club , which have very different measure in place , will require we to take a proportionate , case - by - case approach . the regulator must ensure a level of engagement with fan , particularly on the issue that I be identify , but we also want to ensure that it work for the club . therefore , it will be for the regulator to ensure that a proportionate approach be take . I be about to go on to discuss that aspect , because we will be set a minimum standard of fan engagement , and require club to seek the approval of their fan for change to those thing I mention in order to comply with the strong exist protection for club name . we know that most club have a strong relationship with their fan , consciously engage they in decision about the club ' s heritage . however , there have be some notable exception , as we have see at Cardiff City and Hull City , whose fan have have to battle to bring back or keep their club ' s colours , badge and name . as I say , the regulator will also protect fan interest with the requirement for club to seek its approval for any sale or relocation of their home ground . the stadium a club play in be not only of significant value to fan ; it can be the club ' s most valuable asset , and it be only right that a club seek to relocate have to demonstrate that such a move would not significantly harm the heritage of the club . the regulator be ask to balance the financial sustainability of the club with heritage concern and to make an either / or decision , under its purpose . in that scenario , could the regulator decide to allow a club to move if it feel it be good for the club ' s future sustainability , even if the fan object ? yes , that be right ; the regulator have to take into account the view of fan and look at the proposal . if it consider the proposal to be good , that change can take place . under the new regulator , fan will no long face the prospect of see their club sign up to ill - thought - out proposal , such as the european super league , which several Premier League club try to join in 2021 . the House be unite in recognise that those proposal for the new competition be fundamentally uncompetitive and would have undermine the football pyramid , against the wish of fan . this regulator will prevent that kind of closed - shop league from ever get off the ground . I respect what the Secretary of State be try to do , but there be a huge inequality of arm between billionaire owner of club and fan ' organisation . I have be the MP for Queens Park Rangers for nearly 20 year , but my small borough also contain Chelsea and Fulham , and in my political lifetime all three of those club have face either be fold up by greedy owner or lose their ground in perpetuity . I do not see what in the Bill be go to prevent that from happen in the future . all the measure in the Bill , cumulatively , will ensure that club be well manage and run ; therefore , they will be there and will not go into financial insolvency and administration , which decimate community . all the measure we have set out , be it the owner and director test , or the measure to ensure that club have a financial plan , will ensure that club be properly run . we be introduce the Bill to ensure that the situation whereby we have have 64 administration since the Premier League be found in 1992 be not continue . we be not say that club be never go to get into financial difficulty , but we be say that we be go to put a strong framework in place to ensure that all constituent can be confident that their club will have a certain level to which their business be run — that they will be run well . Leyton Orient , in my constituency , with which the Secretary of State be familiar , now have owner who be genuinely dedicated to their welfare . previously , they be own by somebody on whom the fit and proper person test have no effect , and that person nearly destroy the second old club in London . be she confident that the Bill will ensure that such people will not get their hand on club such as Orient in the future ? yes . this Bill be all about ensure that the owner and director of club be fit and proper people , so that what happen to the hon . Gentleman ' s club , which I be at just a few week ago , do not happen again . I will support this legislation because many of the step it take be very necessary . I hope it will mean that Worcester City will never leave Worcester again . much of what I be hear about the need to protect the financial sustainability of club and league also apply in the small but still important world of rugby union . as the Secretary of State will know , and as the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , who be sit next to she , know very well , Worcester Warriors be currently without a place in professional rugby . if this legislation succeed , will she consider apply it to other sport , or introduce legislation for other sport , where that be require to sustain opportunity in the professional game ? as my hon . friend know , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , and I have spend time look at the issue in rugby , and continue to do so . we be set out what we hope will be a strong financial framework for football . this be be watch closely by other country that be look into what they will do in football . of course if other sport want to look into this , they can . I move on to the backstop power . obviously , broadcast revenue be a hugely important source of income for club up and down our top - tier football league , but the current distribution of revenue across the top five division be not sufficient , and football have not be able to come to a suitable new arrangement . not only do that contribute to problem of financial sustainability , but it can have a destabilising effect on the sport . to avoid that in future , the regulator will have new , target backstop power to help ensure a sufficient flow of money . however , those power be intend only as a last resort , and can be trigger only if certain condition be meet . the backstop mechanism have be design with the industry and lead expert to give football incentive to reach a timely compromise , thereby deliver the right outcome while minimise costly regulatory involvement . the final part of the regulator ' s job be improve the corporate governance of club . we will establish a football club corporate governance code , and will require club to report regularly on their corporate governance , set out how they have apply the code and why that be suitable for their circumstance . the language in the Bill reflect the language on corporate governance in the Companies Act 2006 , but there " corporate governance " include the relationship that a board of director have with not only the component part of the business , but the employee . should it not be inherent in the Bill that the corporate governance code should suggest how club can maintain high player welfare standard ? we look closely at precedent elsewhere , particularly in regulatory field , when form the basis of the Bill . we have always be conscious that we be regulate in a commercial space , and that football club be business . the premier league be world lead . we be regulate because football club have fail to solve these issue themselves . what we do not want to do through this Bill be over - regulate , include in area in which we would not be regulate but for this Bill . we be try to strike the right balance . that be why the Bill , notwithstanding question that have be put to I in this House , focus on financial regulation . importantly , it do not interfere with the game , or with how player be look after . the league have a role to play , and they should be primarily responsible for run the game . do the regulator have sufficient power to intervene if some of the owner be service debt in other area of their company ? the regulator will have strong power to look at owner and director test , and at financial plan . they will have power that be design to ensure the financial sustainability of football . the question that would arise , I suspect , in the right hon . member ' s case be whether that issue be interfere with a particular football club . the Secretary of State be be very generous with her time . I thank she for mention Cardiff City . I hope to catch Madam Deputy Speaker ' s eye later and talk some more about they . one reason why the Government regulate in the commercial space and in business be to promote competition . in the White Paper , the Government say that the scale of parachute payment can distort competition in the championship and encourage great financial risk - taking by club not in receipt of they . if the regulator have no power in this sphere , how will we ensure that the pyramid be a reality , rather than it become ever more difficult to climb ? I recognise the concern raise about parachute payment and the distortion of competition . on the backstop power , parachute payment have be include because of the way that the backstop mechanism work ; two offer be make by the Premier League or by the English Football League . however , that be not to say that parachute payment be completely ignore . the regulator will look at the state of the game in a holistic way . also , it be not to say that if the parachute payment affect the running and finance of a club , the regulator have no ability to look at those payment . the Secretary of State say something very important about look at precedent for regulation in other area . certainly , one reason why I be in the Chamber today be my love of the game ; although I recognise that there be financial matter that need regulation , that be not the whole of the issue . my concern , and that of many of my constituent , be about the matter be treat simplistically , as if there be just one set of financially relate problem , without consideration for community tie , the involvement of fan and so on . when she look at other example , do she find anything that manage to crack that nut , or that capture that nuance ? there do not need to be a nuance . the whole point of this legislation be to protect fan , community and club . at the heart of that be make sure that club be financially sustainable . none the less , in the legislation , we also have measure to ensure fan engagement on the thing that fan care deeply about — the heritage , for example . I can not overstate the point that although we want to protect the premier league , which be an important , world - lead asset , we also want to protect fan and community , and that be what this legislation be all about . take together , the new measure and the carefully consider remit of the regulator will help we to safeguard club , protect the interest of our fan and avoid unnecessary and excessive regulation . the vast majority of our club be run well and live within their mean . I be confident that those club and their owner will recognise that the Bill , and the new regulator , will allow we to put football on a solid basis for year to come . the Bill will preserve and enhance all the thing that we love about our national game , and I commend it to the House . may I start by say how good it be to see the Bill receive its second reading ? many people have be campaign for it for many year , and as the Secretary of State have acknowledge , it have strong cross - party support . a lot of people — both inside and outside the Chamber — have put in a lot of work . sadly , week , month and , I be afraid , Secretaries of State have go by , but I be glad to see it here at last . since I be give the honour of serve in this role , I have meet fan , club , representative league , govern body and special interest group , and I want to thank they all for their time and expertise . I know that they be follow our proceeding closely . I also thank the civil servant at the Department , who I know will have put in painstaking work to get we to this point . they deserve our appreciation , and I hear that same point be make by those on the Government Benches . this new law will not fix all of football ' s problem , nor be it design to . I believe that it can be transformative , if thing be do right both during its passage through Parliament and in the crucial implementation phase . the prize could be great financial sustainability across the whole football pyramid , and , crucially , fan have a great say in how their club be run . it could be those thing , but it be up to we to make sure that it be . that be what fan deserve , and what Labour have call for in our last three election manifesto . we Opposition Members be therefore absolutely committed to pass this Bill into law , and to make it work . it be a once - in - a - generation chance to change the game that this country love for the well . we must all realise the responsibility that we have to make a success of it . football be part of what it mean to be british . it reach across border . it be part of our global brand . it bring we together . yes , it sometimes bring crush disappointment , but it also bring we joy . we watch with our family and friend at the local , in the stand or in our living room . we cheer and chant with stranger in stadium , and together , we sit on the edge of our seat with nervousness . labour will never take the magic of football for grant . it deserve our attention and our hard work . football be also an economic powerhouse . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition have clearly set out , labour ' s no . 1 mission be to go for growth . the premier league and its club contribute more than £ 4 . 2 billion in tax in 2021 - 22 and support more than 90 , 000 job . the English Football League club contribute so much to our country ' s finance , to job , and also to joy . the next Labour Government want to invest — in hospital , in school , in repair the damage do by the last 14 year , and in make sure that every child get a great experience of sport and physical activity at school . that be why football ' s contribution to public fund be so important to we , and it be why we will focus on economic growth . labour will support football up and down the pyramid to grow sustainably , and to create even more job , as well as joy . I say " sustainably " , because Labour believe it be important that the whole football pyramid share in the success of the game . England lead the world in its system for football . the english pyramid be build on competition . the fan ' love of the game be never more clearly demonstrate than when they overwhelmingly reject the close competition model of the propose european super league . that set in train the fan - lead review by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) and lead to where we be today , but there be so much more work to do . my hon . Friend mention the fan - lead review . do she agree with I that the woman ' s game , which be out of scope of the Bill , be grow exponentially , and that there be scope for the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , in a new role , to look at the woman ' s game and see whether we could have some regulation there ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . she rightly pay tribute to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford , although Karen Carney have also make a substantial contribution in lead the Carney review . I read the review with interest — it be great — and I believe my right hon . friend may be aware of it . it be certainly worth member give it a detailed read ; it deserve all of our attention . I be really proud of the fact that the english woman ' s game be grow so strongly and so well , and that it be inspire so many woman and girl to get active and get fit . the work of the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford , combine with the Carney review , set in train exactly what my right hon . friend be look for : strength in our woman ' s game , which deserve it and deserve our admiration . it be bring in new audience all the time , which I think be fantastic . thirty year ago , English Football League revenue be 75 % of the Premier League ' s ; today they be just 6 % . the gap then be £ 11 million ; it be now £ 3 billion . it be not that that income be not distribute from the Premier League — it be . it be because increase amount be spend on parachute payment , which be make to club relegate from the premier league for up to three season . I respectfully remind the ministerial team that it be the Government ' s own White Paper that recognise the scale of these payment and that they can have unintended consequence . my hon . Friend refer to parachute payment . do she feel that the inclusion of the clause that prohibit the parachute payment as " relevant revenue " be already prejudge the outcome of the state of the game review ? it be exclude they to start with , rather than leave the question open until the review be do . my hon . friend raise a really important point . it be so important that the state of the game report lead the way , and that the regulator be allow to look at the evidence and have the scope to intervene where that be necessary . I fear that the Secretary of State may inadvertently have confuse the issue in her early remark , although I think she begin to clarify it . I would be grateful if the Minister could far clarify it in his sum up , as there be some remain confusion . I certainly think that if we do not sort this issue out today , we must at least have some time in Committee to try to untangle what clause 55 actually mean . I think the Secretary of State say that the parachute payment be in play in the discussion about distribution of fund within football until it get to the backstop , when they be take off the table . it be almost be say that if the Premier League do not reach an agreement with the EFL until the point of the backstop , the Premier League will in effect have a veto over parachute payment be change . that be what be be say , and I think that position really need to be change when we be in Committee . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . like other colleague , he be so knowledgeable about the detail of this Bill . I urge the Government to consider what have be say in a constructive spirit . everybody present want to get to the bottom of this confusion . we want to make sure that football and the regulator have the tool they need to grow sustainability — a key word which the Government have themselves use . the confusion about parachute payment be worthy of further attention , because there be so much money involve . they also have the distort effect that the Government ' s White Paper rightly identify . if we do not look at this issue , we risk distort competition in the championship by encourage great financial risk take by the club that do not receive those payment . we know that that can result in an over - reliance on owner funding , which again be simply not always sustainable . as my hon . friend have mention , clause 55 ( 2 ) exclude parachute payment from any order by the regulator on revenue distribution . I gently say to the Government that , as there seem to be some contradiction or possible confusion , we would like that clear up . I would be grateful if the Minister could say more in his summing up about how the money currently use for parachute payment could make more impact and perhaps be share more widely , whether he have examine that in detail and to what extent he feel the current term of the Bill be satisfactory . part of the problem be that football be inherently risky ; the very nature of what a club do be in order to get promote . if , in try to engineer some sustainability from the point of view of people invest in a club , Derby County have be promote , the model would have be deem to have work , but it fail and so do the club . how would labour facilitate individual from across the globe invest in the good league in the world , while make sure that club such as Derby County be protect ? I gently point the hon . gentleman to his government ' s White Paper , because the Bill come from there . yes , of course the game be inherently risky — that be part of what make it thrill — but we need to be think about whether that be a calculated risk that be part of the thrill of the game , or an unintended consequence of a possible market failure . we really need to look at whether there be distort competition . I gently suggest that , if the hon . Gentleman have not read his government ' s White Paper , he should . I have . then we really need further discussion in Committee on this issue ; it be worthy of such consideration . on calculated risk taking , we need to be clear about when we be take unnecessary risk and when there be unintended consequence of the way finance be distribute . surely football club owner should be able to spend the money they have to take such a risk . however , if they be spend money from the future , as Derby County and Glasgow Rangers do , and the risk fail in the current year , they will inevitably go bust . Glasgow Rangers disappear altogether , and Derby County almost disappear . football fan do not want club to take that risk , and surely the regulator should be prevent that . my hon . friend raise the most important point , which be about how fan feel . there should be no taking of reckless risk and there should be no jeopardising of a club ' s future , and that be important . any business owner — the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) mention business — know that they have to think about what level of risk they be go to take . fan be at the heart of football , which be one of the thing that make football special and unique , and what fan want be such an important feature of our discussion . I will ask the same question that I ask the Secretary of State , because the hon . Lady could be the Secretary of State this year . I do not know whether she go to watch football — perhaps she go to watch Bristol Rovers in her own city — but she will know that , early this year Bristol Rovers have the mighty Norwich City at its stadium . it have 10 , 000 fan for a mid - week FA cup replay , which be really important to the club . Bristol Rovers have call on the fa to reverse its decision to scrap FA cup replay . this Bill be about financial resilience and viability throughout the pyramid , so what be the Opposition ' s view of the fa ' s decision last week ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who say that the Bill be about financial resilience . obviously , Bristol Rovers be my local club , and I listen to what it have to say , but I also listen to what fan across the country have to say , and they be clearly very upset about that decision . my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition have make his view on this extremely clear , because we really think that replay be part of the game . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] he have say that replay be an important part of our game , and we can hear that in the reaction of my right hon . and hon . friend behind I . however , as the hon . Gentleman say , replay be not part of this Bill , and we be focus on financial resilience . he will know how much I have enjoy be at Bristol Rovers . I be on the terrace only the other week watch they lose to reading , but that be part of the joy of football — that and the pie — isn ' t it ? I want to talk about how revenue be distribute throughout the football pyramid , because that be an important consideration of this Bill . one of the many way the Bill set out a future for the regulator be on financial distribution . it be down to the league themselves to reach a deal on broadcast revenue distribution , but it sadden we all that , at the moment , a deal still seem a long way off . it seem that there have be something of a breakdown in communication . I have meet many of the interested party and listen to concern , and I appreciate that this be complex and not easy , but I urge both side to come to an agreement . however , if those negotiation can not result in a deal once the Bill be enact and the regulator be in operation , the regulator will have the power to select one of the two option put forward by the party . that important backstop power should be use as a last resort , but it be clearly important that such a power exist . give how important the backstop be , will the Minister say what work have be undertake to ensure that that specific part of the Bill work in practice ? be it legally watertight ? be there question that still have to be answer ? from my engagement with stakeholder there seem to be many important question that still need to be answer and we will be explore they far in Committee , but will the Minister give we a bit more of an indication at this stage regard what work have be do and what that will mean in reality ? proportionality will be key for we all . as many member across the House have say , we want the game to succeed and to continue in the great future that it have for the whole country . proportionality be important . with all legislation and regulation we must strike the right balance , and nowhere more so than with the licensing scheme for club . that be the mechanism through which a majority of the regulation and enforcement will be deliver , and it be right that the regulator will be able to tailor a club ' s obligation proportionately , especially when it come to club in the national league — many hon . member represent constituency in which there be a national league team . we support an appropriate transition period , to enable club to prepare for this process . we must bring club of all size into the system in an appropriate way . colleague have also mention sanction . as the Bill stand , the regulator will not be able to impose point deduction on club that break the rule . labour back that decision , but I know how much this issue matter to colleague across the House and to fan up and down the country who be understandably devastate when their club be hit with point deduction as a result of decision that the fan have no power over . after the formation of the regulator , the league will continue to have their own financial rule , and there be nothing to suggest that point deduction for breach of the league ' s own rule will not continue . nobody want to see point deduction for corporate or financial mismanagement , least of all fan . I hope , and I know fan hope , that the regulator and licensing scheme will mean that club be more financially sustainable , and that breach of league rule and the associated point deduction be much less likely . again , if the Minister would like to address that when sum up the debate , that would be helpful . football club be the pride of our town and city . they be an important part of our civic identity and the heart of our community . new owner often bring important investment , but I know from speak with club that it be about more than that . it be a big responsibility and honour to be the custodian of a football club , and owner should take that seriously . I know that be how it feel for the owner of my local club , Bristol Rovers . my hon . friend be make a very good speech . one other thing that club do through their community arm — in the case of QPR that be QPR in the Community Trust — be regenerate an area . in one of the poor community in the country we have Andy Evans and his team . it be big business , and they make a massive contribution to the local community . however , they and the club fear that the poor governance and financial inequality of football put all that at risk . be that what be at stake in the Bill ? my hon . friend be exactly right . so many thing be at stake in the Bill , which be why it be so important we get it right . I know Fulham well , and the important work do by football community trust , supporter club , and so many people involve in the game who help to regenerate their community . however , they can not do that on their own , or if their club be not sustain financially . that be what be at stake , my hon . friend be absolutely right . indeed , I have see that for myself in what Bristol Rovers do for our local community . I meet the owner of my local club recently . it be a pleasure to meet he and to hear from he and fan about the importance of grow the club sustainably and invest in the local community . I be impressed to hear the number of way that the owner , management and fan have engage with each other and learn from each other . there be always more to do — I be sure all club would acknowledge that there be always more they can do to hear what fan have to say , and what their community trust be do , as well as how they can be enable and support to do more of what they do so well . although the vast majority of owner act in the good interest of their club , some do not . that be why Labour have be call for new check on owner and director . the Bill stipulate that those check will : look into whether prospective new owner have sufficient financial resource to be a suitable owner ; review their finance to ensure they be sound ; check whether prospective owner behave with honesty and integrity ; and assess officer ' competence and whether an owner ' s source of wealth be connect to serious criminal conduct . again , will the Minister address those point when sum up the debate ? what do all that mean in practice ? the Bill be not clear whether the test will be objective or subjective in nature , and some of they appear to be distinctly subjective . how will the test be conduct and what will the criterion be ? will that issue be address in Government guidance or the regulation ? do the Minister expect it to be address in the code ? I would be grateful if he clarify that . the Bill be reasonably clear that the regulator consider not only those rule , but any other rule that it wish to write into the rulebook . this will give we for the first time ever a subjective test set by the regulator , which can be enforce with statute back it up . the hon . Gentleman seem to be say that it be a subjective test . I be ask whether there be any objective test , because I think that be important in term of fairness . where be they objective , where be they subjective ? concept such as competency can be interpret both objectively and subjectively , and I would appreciate the Minister ' s clarification of what he view as the Government ' s position . one issue we come across in the huge difficulty that Worcester Warriors go through be that it have a director who be approve on the basis that he have be approve by the footballe authority . he be approve because he be a practise solicitor , but it turn out he be a disbarred practise solicitor . be it vital that a regulator have the ability to check information give to it , so that even if people provide mislead information to a regulator , it have the ability to intervene and strike those people off as appropriate director where necessary ? the hon . Gentleman explain exactly why it be so important that the owner and director test will work . that be why I be address these remark to the Government — it be , after all , their Bill . I would like to know substantially more from the Minister in answer to the question that I and other have raise . Fan engagement be crucial and we back fan have a great say in how their club be run . therefore it be right that the Bill require that if a club propose change to club crest or colour , it have take reasonable step to ensure that those change be support by a majority of fan . Fan engagement should not be reduce to a box - tick exercise , and neither should it be one size fit all . Engagement must be meaningful and appropriate , and suitable for each club . the woman ' s game be not explicitly mention in the Bill , but we would all agree that it have have a stellar few year . it be grow quickly , bring new crowd to stadium , and introduce lot of girl to the joy of physical activity . I be determined to see the woman ' s game grow even more . I have already mention that proportionality be a key principle that must be consider during the passage of this Bill . have listen to what representative of the woman ' s have to say , I do not think it wise to introduce regulation to the woman ' s game before it be ready or unless it be necessary . it be right that there be power in the Bill to introduce regulation to a league designate by the Secretary of State that could , if necessary in future , include the woman ' s game . I will be monitor that closely , in collaboration with representative from woman ' s football . the governance of english football be in a position of uncertainty , and on this Government ' s watch that uncertainty have be allow to carry on far too long . that have be , and continue to be , to the detriment of club and their finance . after the passage of this long - await Bill and the establishment of the regulator , I hope that football will be able to enter a new period of governance stability . as the Bill progress , that be what member across the House should be aim for , and what fan across the country deserve . I rise , unsurprisingly , in support of the Bill . I be pleased to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I know you take a keen interest in Doncaster Rovers , and although you be not able to speak in the Chamber on these matter , you have be a fine advocate for its view during this process . may I congratulate the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) not just on complete the marathon on Sunday , but for stand up and sit down without an audible " oof " ? two day after , that be pretty commendable . I thank the ministerial team and the long - suffer official at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport who have work exceptionally hard on bring forward this Bill . this detailed piece of legislation have be well work through to ensure that it move smoothly through Parliament and be in place as soon as possible . I also pay tribute to those who have campaign on this issue for many year . I may have chair the fan - lead review , but the truth be that a blueprint for reform be create long before . I go down a hansard rabbit hole , thank to James in the Official Report team , and read some fabulous reference from day past , include a glorious contribution from the much - miss Alan Keen in 1997 that highlight : " the Premier League and the Football Association govern themselves with no appeal beyond their confine . " — [ Official Report , 27 June 1997 ; Vol . 296 , c . 1094 . ] give last week ' s furore over FA cup replay , that still seem apt . there be too many to list , but the like of Richard Caborn , Andy Burnham , my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , Kevin Miles and his team at the Football Supporters Association , David Bernstein , Gary Neville , Henry Winter and Peter Crouch — no relation — have be vocal campaigner for change . the truth be that for many year , Sports Ministers , include I , have stand at the Dispatch Box with crisis after football crisis and plead with the authority , " reform yourself , or Parliament will " , and here we finally find ourselves . the Secretary of State have already set out the context of this Bill . it be always important to remember that the Premier League ask the Government to intervene when six club seek to join the european super league . the plea lead to the then Prime Minister Boris Johnson promise a " legislative bomb " . that come on the back of high - profile financial problem in the football pyramid , include the demise of Bury , which my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) have speak about many time in this Chamber . the fan - lead review be the outcome of the request from the Premier League and the regulatory failing to prevent club from disappear from our football landscape and the subsequent massacre of the community ecosystem that support they . the review be a deep dive into the issue , and I shall remain forever grateful to those who participate in it . in preparation for this speech , I re - read some of the submission to the review . it be interesting to read in its submission that the Premier League think that there could be a use for an institution with " step - in power " and " a capacity to intervene " should it " manifestly have fail to uphold rule " . the submission go on to say that " such a body could also set the general principle require for standard for governance and transparency , include for financial regulation ; strengthen the independent operation of the OADT ; support the principle of standard for owner ' responsibility as custodian ; and protect decision make over key issue for fan " . the same paragraph continue : " provide it operate in a proportionate way that respect the benefit of permit well - run club and league to be nimble in their decision making and encourage to innovate and take properly assess risk , then this could make an important and positive contribution to maintain and enhance what be the world ' s most dynamic and attractive football environment " . this Bill be all those thing , shape brilliantly to reflect the word of the Premier League itself about what a great regulator could look like . it leave many of we scratch our head as to why the Premier League have spend the past few week lobby to stop the Bill progress . I will say a few thing about some of the specific clause in the Bill . clause 3 set out to define an " ultimate owner " of a club . that be important , as part of the challenge in the past have be that that have not be as clear as it should . clause 5 to 8 set out the objective and principle of regulation , make clear that the regulator should be nimble in its approach and can oblige good governance and real - time intervention , but be not oblige to guarantee zero failure . however , the Bill make it clear that the regulator will be time - efficient , consistent and transparent . that be a departure , some might argue , from the current regulation . clause 12 and 13 be key to how the regulator will evolve . good guidance will be essential to its success , as we have hear in contribution and intervention . I already foresee strong guidance require on the role of fan advisory board and on fan engagement , such as that set out in schedule 4 and 5 , along with certain technical challenge , such as pitch ownership if that be different from club ownership . timely but think - through guidance do in consultation with key party will be much need if the regulator be to hit the ground run . equally important be the need not to overload on guidance and create regulation by proxy . the whole point of the regulator be to improve governance and to be open and transparent , yet agile in relation to change . clause 26 , and in particular subsection ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) , which I refer to in my note as the Martin Samuel measure — Martin be a journalist , but he would regularly ask I whether the honesty and integrity test would prevent Boris Johnson from run a football club — clarify that the test be define by crime under the Serious Crime Act 2015 . offence cover by fix penalty notice be therefore not relevant , which will be a relief to those involve in football who might have be issue with a speed fine or other such fine . clause 37 ( 2 ) relate to the regulator have regard to foreign and trade policy objective . that have become a slight distraction from the argument on the independence of the regulator . with that in mind , I suggest an amendment to the clause to change the word " must " to " may " . it be boringly technical to the outside world , but incredibly important if we be to impress on it the value of the regulator ' s independence . part 5 of the Bill be an important aspect for the domestic fan base , cover prohibit competition and the protection of club heritage , include ground disposal . for the fan , it be the soul of the Bill . when we publish the review , I explain that its order be craft like a good album . we put all the chapter about governance first , before we get to the redistribution of revenue . the way I see it be that the Premier League give a substantial amount of money to the wide pyramid , but without the necessary structure of good governance . it be akin to have the heating on with the window open . put in proper regulatory structure should give the Premier League and its club confidence that its money be go to good owner with proper business plan in place and real - time financial monitoring that give significant protection . the Bill follow that same mindset . we get the structure right , then we distribute the finance , and that be what part 6 of the Bill do . on part 6 , I have some key point to make . first , there be an argument to be have on whether the regulator should have the ability in principle to trigger the backstop . I be sympathetic to that , but it need to be do carefully . secondly , although colleague have focus on parachute payment , clause 55 be draft so broadly that both domestic and international broadcast revenue could be deem " relevant revenue " and available for distribution . that be not the case at the moment . I be slightly surprised that the Premier League have not include that in its list of thing that it want to amend . it be important that we seek to clarify precisely what be consider " relevant revenue " at the early opportunity . thirdly , it be essential that we define , either on the face of the Bill or at some point in parliamentary proceeding , the definition of " material change " . what might seem material to the EFL might not seem material to the Premier League . fourthly , the power of the regulator will extend to the national league , as presumably will the redistribution of funding . however , I note that the National League have say that it oppose the regulator . it be in the gift of the Secretary of State to define the reach of the regulator , so she could , if she feel it necessary , remove the national league from the Bill , and in so do , remove it from the redistribution of finance and instead allow it to continue its exist arrangement via the Football Association . it be right that we put these power in the Bill , but it be disappointing that , two year on from the review , the football authority have not do a deal on distribution . the solid recommendation in the review would have move this debate much far forward than it be now , but they be ignore , so here we be , with the regulator require power to intervene that be promise over and over again . clause 94 mean that all fine receive be pay into the consolidated fund . although it may not be popular with the Chancellor , I propose that , in order to ensure that the regulator be deem independent of Government , that clause be amend so that money raise above and beyond the regulator ' s cost be divert directly back into grassroots football , which I be sure would be much appreciated as we look to continue the growth in participation and investment in facility in the run - up to and long after the Euros in 2028 . I do not wish to test the tolerance of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I shall wind up . I love football , and although the Premier League continue to cast I and other who support the Bill as the enemy of success , investment , growth and international competitiveness , I would argue that quite the opposite be true . the premier league be one of our fine export , and nothing in my review or in the Bill change that . instead , the Bill protect the pyramid from the vulnerability and fragility that have challenge football over the year . it protect football club from owner who forget that they be merely custodian of something great than a trinket . it serve to protect fan , club and entire community from lose their heart and soul . for those reason , I hope that the whole of Parliament will come together to support the Bill and get it into statute as quickly as possible . rise — Order . I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word about Doncaster Rovers . I get the feeling that I speak for the whole House in say how pleased we be that her work in this area have be recognise appropriately . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] before I call the next speaker , a great many right hon . and hon . member wish to contribute , so my first advice to Members be to try to confine their remark to about seven minute . I call Kevin Brennan . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also broadly welcome the Bill . may I add the member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee to the list of people whom the Secretary of State praise ? I be a member of that Committee until the end of last year , and I be glad to see several of its member in the Chamber for Second Reading . it be a pleasure to speak directly after my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) — I think I can call she a friend after all these year . I commend she for her work in this area and the terrific speech that she have just deliver . I find myself agree with pretty much everything that she say . I know that we be in favour of replay , but it would perhaps be wise of I not to repeat everything she say , so I will try not to , although I commend she for what she have to say . there be still some who question whether Parliament should be regulate in this area at all . why should we legislate to regulate football ? after all , we do not do that in every sport — although , as the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) point out , there be perhaps a strong case for do so in rugby union after what happen to his local club and other english premiership rugby club . however , in reality , Parliament have a long record of legislate specifically in lot of different area of football . in fact , my private Member ' s Bill — the Unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill — will have its Committee stage on 8 May , and will , I hope , give its widespread support , make its way into law if we have time before a general election be call . there be a long record of football - specific legislation , so this be not that unusual . football play such a huge part in our culture . let I say , as the Member of Parliament represent Cardiff West , that although we talk about the English football pyramid , it include Welsh club of course , and have do for well over a century . football be a huge part of our culture in Wales . in fact , a lot of hon . member will not know that it be the most popular sport in Wales — more popular even that rugby — help greatly by the success of our Welsh man ' s national football team in recent year , include their reach the semi - final of the Euros . of course , as hon . member have point out , we would not be legislate if football have demonstrate the ability to regulate itself , which many of we — include the late Alan Keen , whom I be glad get a mention in the speech of the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford — have call on it to do for many , many year . it be tell that the Bill be now widely welcome in almost all tier of football except , as have be mention , the Vanarama national league and the high echelon of the premier league . I completely acknowledge not only that the premier league be the world ' s most successful club competition , but that its existence have bring benefit down the football pyramid . in the first 25 year of the premier league ' s existence , its revenue grow thirtyfold while revenue in the second , third and fourth tier grow more than tenfold . that be the nub of the issue : if we go on as we be without effective redistributive method , the inevitable consequence be that that the gap between the top and low tier would gradually make the pyramid untenable and unworkable . without a long - term viable pyramid , football at the top will become even more of a cartel than it currently be . the Premier League ' s chief executive tell the Culture , Media and Sport Committee early this year , that he be " totally accept of the Bill and the regulator come in after that Bill . " as the Bill progress we should bear that comment in mind , which he say on the record to the Select Committee . we should hold the Premier League to that . as we have hear during the debate , football should be about competition . business should be about competition , and regulation be about help to promote fair competition . that be the role of Parliament , Government and the state in this sphere . in the absence of an agreement between the Premier League and the English Football League , the backstop power of the regulator be an essential tool to ensure fair competition , and so that small business be not ultimately wipe out by the gradual concentration of resource at the top of the game and the impossibility of make progress in the game without take the sort of risk that undermine local club , and ultimately lead to a number of situation that we have hear about . I do not see how Ministers will be able to convince right hon . and hon . member that that be possible without the regulator have any power to deal with pyramid payment . as we have hear , the Government ' s own White Paper acknowledge the distort impact that they have on competition . if the Bill be about fair competition , that have to be deal with . I want to mention my own club Cardiff City — hon . member would not expect anyone not to mention their own club . its stadium be locate in my constituency and its recent history have contribute to some of the clause in the Bill , particularly around fan ' right . Cardiff City have be very successful during my 23 year in Parliament . it have be in the premier league twice , reach the FA cup final , and lose to Liverpool on penalty in the league cup final , but as be well know , some year ago a new owner , Vincent Tan , decide to change the club ' s colour from the traditional blue to red , believe it to be a colour that bring good fortune . if hon . member can imagine , for a football club universally know as the Bluebirds , the switch to red be somewhat problematic for the fan . I welcome the fact that the owner change his mind , and that the Bill would not allow that sort of thing to happen without the involvement of the fan . I can confirm that Cardiff City football club welcome the Bill . I thank the club ' s director Steve Borley , who write to I about the Bill . he say that " the game ' s fractured governance model and the inequitable distribution of finance " be increasingly put the game at risk . that be why the Bill be so important . the Bill do not make any reference to the player . that be a missing part . the player ' union , the Professional Footballers ' Association , write to hon . member about that , to say : " as draft , there be currently no reference to player within the Bill . we think this be a significant omission " . I would like to hear from the Minister why that be the case , whether the Government would consider the representation from the player ' union to ensure appropriate reference to they in the Bill , and reassurance about some of the exist structure that protect the right of player , which the union be concerned about . no one here want to damage the premier league . I simply want my club , Cardiff City , to have a fair chance of play in the premier league again . I hope that the Bill will go some way — hopefully improve , strengthen and amend — to ensure a healthy future for football . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I also rise to welcome the Bill and congratulate the Government on bring it forward . I have to admit that we on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be wonder whether this day would ever come , but the Government appear to have be inspire by the mighty Portsmouth football club , who last week secure victory and promotion to the championship with a last - minute goal . it be edge - of - the - seat sporting drama like that that make british football the good in the world , right from the very bottom to the top — from the millionaire at the top of the premier league to grassroots club such as Gosport Borough , who have treat fan to a romp season . they play in the southern football league and sit tantalisingly in the promotion zone . of course , there be also Fleetlands FC , who be push for promotion in division 1 of the Wessex league . here in Parliament , we have also be keep on the edge of our seat , eagerly await this Bill that could potentially reshape the landscape of football governance . over the past few year , instability off the pitch , not the action on it , have increasingly grab the headline . soar level of debt have lead to the collapse of club such as Bury and Macclesfield , an experience share by so many fan in community up and down the country devastate by the demise of their beloved club . the debt problem be get bad : premier league club have report staggering loss of over £ 1 . 2 billion over the past 12 month alone , and the figure in the championship be look just as shocking , with Leicester lose £ 90 million in 2022 - 23 . fan of club such as Everton and Reading be sick of see they mismanage through the reckless decision making of irresponsible owner . just last week , the House hear of the pain of Torquay United fan , whose club have enter into administration follow year of flawed business plan . unreliable owner who do not have the interest of their club or its fan at heart , and be prepared to play fast and loose with their finance and their future , should be hold accountable . as a lifelong Pompey fan , I feel their pain : after a series of disastrous owner , it take a fan - lead buy - out in 2012 to save our club , demonstrate that our fan be literally prepared to pay up in order to stay up — or , in fact , to stay afloat — such be their dedication and commitment . the failure of english football ' s wealthy club , those in the premier league , to agree a financial distribution deal be put the fabric of our national game at risk . this situation have drag on for far too long , and it have be especially disappointing to see the Premier League spending time and money lobby mp and peer against the Bill , rather than lobby its club to secure a fair deal for english football . decision be repeatedly be make in the interest of the top of the football pyramid without a thought for the vital ecosystem that generate its lifeblood . scrap FA cup replay may be welcome in some quarter , but once again it be a characteristically messy number , deny low - league side that all - important financial boost . we need a change of tactic , so I know that fan across the country will welcome these plan to introduce a regulator and attempt to bring some stability to the game . of course , that be not to say that the new independent regulator will be the silver bullet that the Government have sometimes present it as . the problem face by football be extensive and complex , and there be still some area where I would like to see more clarification and further work as the Bill progress . I will talk through a couple of those now . widen financial distribution across the football pyramid will be the ultimate test of the Bill . last year , our Committee urge the Premier League and the EFL to urgently agree a new deal to redistribute a high proportion of revenue throughout the football pyramid . we recommend that in the absence of such a deal , the Government should expedite their plan to establish a regulator with the power to mandate a solution . I be pleased to see that the Bill aim to address this issue by give the independent regulator the backstop power to intervene in the distribution of broadcast revenue , but that power be subject to certain threshold be meet , and it exclude the controversial parachute payment within the pot that we have already hear about . we need reassurance that the regulator have the tooth to trigger its own backstop power and impose a fair settlement , when and where it deem necessary and without any undue delay . we also need an indication from the Government of how the regulator will curb the reckless spending of club try to keep up with those in receipt of parachute payment . enhance financial regulation across the football pyramid be really welcome . it will improve the resilience of club , encourage sensible financial decision and ensure that risk be mitigate . however , give that the regulator will not oversee regulation such as the Premier League profitability and sustainability rule or the squad cost control that be set to replace those rule , the Government need to provide clarity on how both system will work alongside each other and reassurance as to why they deem it unsuitable for the regulator to take on this responsibility . when it come to owner , I be really pleased to see that the regulator will establish a new , strengthened owner and director test to ensure that a club ' s custodian be suitable for the role . I welcome the fact that the Bill confer enforcement power on the independent regulator to protect club from any harm that an irresponsible owner or officer might cause and to be able to remove they , but we need further detail on what precisely will happen to those club that have an unsuitable owner remove . we need to understand how the regulator would remove another potential Dai Yongge from read without compromise the future of the club and ultimately punish its fan . I would be grateful if the Minister could explain how the Bill will safeguard club that find themselves in the position of have no owner , no financial safety net to keep they go and potentially no prospective buyer on the horizon . we have already hear from member that football be nothing without its fan , and I be pleased to see the Bill place fan engagement requirement on the club as well as require they to comply with heritage protection and to seek approval for the sale or relocation of their home ground . but the Bill do not go quite so far as require fan to have a golden share , as recommend in the excellent fan - lead review lead by my hon . friend — and real - life friend — the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . at this point , it would be terribly remiss of I not to add my congratulation to she and the whole team who have put an enormous amount of brilliant work into get the Bill to this stage . as the Bill progress , I want to be sure that it provide a way for fan to share their concern about their club with the regulator and to know that they will not be dismiss . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee have agree to hold a pre - appointment hearing with the chair of the independent regulator once the Government have a preferred candidate , and I expect that this will be one of the first question we will be ask they . ultimately , there be two main question that I want to see answer by this legislation . first , do it deliver for football and its fan ? secondly , to what extent will it prevent some of the distressing time that club like reading be currently undergo ? there be more to be do on the Bill — and indeed the guidance that go alongside it — to ensure that it fully meet those aim . we can not overlook the huge economic value , the sense of community cohesion , and the moment of both local and national pride that football give we ; nor can we ignore the vital importance of a football pyramid that deliver at every single level . I know that some , include the Premier League , have concern about unintended consequence , so the Select Committee have write to they to give they a chance to set out exactly what they would change — because there have be plenty of chance for the sceptic to prove that this Bill be not need . give that this be one of the big overhaul in the history of english football , we must do it right . I congratulate Ministers , particularly the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , on get the Bill to this stage . I look forward to his response and to hear what more can be do to secure a clear win — and , just like Pompey , can we do it well before the end of the season ? I be put in place a seven - minute time limit to ensure that everybody get as equal a chance to speak as possible . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . follow the fan - lead review by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) in 2021 , I speak in a Westminster Hall debate on a petition on this issue . I say in that debate , and I reiterate today , that the current disparity between the rich and poor and the selfish nature of the elite club need remedy . this Bill do not do justice to some of the issue that the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford raise in her report , particularly with regard to grassroots football , woman ' s football , anti - discrimination and equal opportunity , but I be sure that those issue will be cover by later legislation in due course . football in this country have become a story of the have and have not , and regulation be desperately need to ensure the health and prosperity of the game at all level , not just in the premier league . I therefore welcome the Bill , and support the creation of a single , independent football regulator . at a time when the game have become an international sporting juggernaut and a global commodity with revenue great than ever before , the financial and long - term sustainability of the football pyramid have never be more at risk . too many historic club be on a cliff edge , about to fall off it and face the fate of historic club like Bury , which have disappear , and Bolton and Wigan , which have struggle since . this be why new legislation be crucial . fan need a great voice in the running of their club , and there need to be a well mean test for owner and director to ensure fiscal sustainability and to root out the financial mismanagement that have plague too many club , through the action of foreign investor or those of domestic owner who have do the same thing . an independent football regulator should ensure that english football continue to serve the interest of regulated club , while also contribute to the economic and social wellbeing of the local community associate with those club . however , a regulator should also be a watchdog , and a watchdog without any tooth will not be much of a regulator , which be why it be essential for this regulator to have the power to do its job properly . the financial gap between the Premier League and the English Football League have reach a critical point . thirty year ago EFL revenue be 75 % of the Premier League ' s , but today the proportion be just 6 % . the gap then be £ 11 million ; it be now £ 3 billion . at this pace , the football pyramid be untenable and the financial gulf between the two league — and across all level — continue to worsen , but there be no doubt that there be enough money in the collective pot to achieve sustainability at all level if the game ' s revenue be distribute in the right and fair way , couple with proper governance and organisation . as it stand , the Premier League continue to rule the roost when it come to english football , but some top - flight club have show that they be incapable of self - regulation . we need only look at some recent financial breach to see that the Premier League be nowadays not in a position to self - govern and regulate the sport when it struggle to keep its own house in order . some have reap the financial reward without show any concern or desire to preserve the health of the sport outside their own need and ecosystem . only an independent regulator will be able to provide proper oversight , regulate club ' behaviour , and intervene when necessary to ensure that they act responsibly . the Bill also provide targeted backstop power to allow the regulator to step in when it come to the allocation of broadcast revenue between the Premier League and the rest of the football pyramid , if need . on the face of it that be fine , but clause 55 require the " specify competition organiser " , the Premier League and the English Football League , to enter into a period of " mediation in connection with the distribution of relevant revenue receive " by one of they , and if they be unable to reach agreement , the independent regulator " may make an order as to the distribution of that revenue . " however , in the Bill as draft , that do not apply to certain circumstance in which the relevant revenue refer to in clause 55 ( 2 ) ( b ) do not include parachute payment , which be define as payment make directly to newly relegate club . as be mention early , this can not be fair , and it deliberately exclude the English Football League from make its case that the parachute payment be disadvantage and distort the revenue of championship club as a whole . the payment be not just a parachute mean for a soft landing ; they be a ladder lead back to the premier league for most of the club that have already be relegate . that be clear from the current position of the championship division : Leicester City , Leeds United , Southampton and Norwich City occupy four of the top six spot . incidentally , Norwich have be relegate from the premier league six time since its formation in 1992 . this expose the fact that the payment be a ladder back to the premier league , to the disadvantage of other elsewhere in the championship division . Preston North end , my constituency club , which have its own place in history as a found member of the football league , join I in believe that a regulator be the only option to underpin both sustainability and competitiveness within the financial distribution of the football pyramid . as we speak , Preston be sit in 10th place in the championship table . they have never play in the premier league — the only former top - flight first division champion never to have do so . they have a wage bill in the region of £ 16 million . how can they compete against the like of Southampton — a club that be relegate in 2023 with a wage bill of approximately £ 88 million , which be six or seven time that of Preston North end ? as a lifelong football fan , I believe that this House not only have the opportunity but , more importantly , the obligation to create much need reform in the game through a transformative Bill that safeguard all club for decade to come . I rise to support the Government ' s plan , although until fairly recently I have considerable reservation about they . it take some time for I to come round and accept the fact that we should have a regulator . on balance , I think that be the right thing to do , as long as it be do in a limited and careful way . I have ask myself if we really want a government - appoint regulator to oversee our national sport , or indeed any sport . will other regulator follow ? will there be mission creep ? very probably . will the Government of the day get the blame for the decision of the regulator ? almost certainly . that say , we must ensure that our club , which be a much value part of many of our local community , continue . it be undeniable to fan who have love football for as long as I have that the game have change since it become truly commercialise in the 1980 and , particularly , the 1990 , with the arrival of the Premier League . the scale , particularly when consider the money involve , be difficult to comprehend . give this trend , the type of individual and organisation we see take ownership of club have change dramatically . as the game have become a truly global phenomenon , some owner have become somewhat detached , to say the least , from their club ' s supporter . as fan know , that be one of the big mistake any owner can make . we see that with the proposal for the Euro super league , not that that concern a Grimsby Town fan such as I . we need to preserve the pyramid that ensure the Grimsby town of this world , whose Blundell Park ground be in my Cleethorpes constituency , be allow to continue . I will break off from talk about the Bill to have my say on the replay issue ; it would be remiss of I not to . to I , the magic of the FA cup go back many year . I can remember , as I be sure one or two other member can , when the draw be always at lunchtime on a Monday . the BBC football correspondent , Bryon Butler , would speak in a hushed voice and we would hear the rattle of the ball as the number come out . replay be part of the same magic as the draw . we have hear much about the game between Coventry and Man United on Sunday ; that it be decide on penalty be rather sad . would it not be great if they be play again on Wednesday evening , or whenever ? perverse incentive in modern football structure can lead to poor governance and unstable club . many club be now make regular loss and borrow at debt level that they can not afford . these be not the indicator of a healthy sport and only serve to make club financially vulnerable , worsen the environment they operate in and create uncertainty for fan . as Kevin Miles , the Football Supporters ' Association ' s chief executive , say , the Government ' s proposal represent a " once in a generation opportunity to reset the finance and regulation of football " . as I mention at the start of my comment , I approach the issue with some reservation , but have study the Government ' s proposal , I think they have strike a fine balance between the benefit and potential cost of introduce such a regulator . mind you , I be sure that there will be some , perhaps minor , change as the Bill go through Committee , but I now support the main thrust of the Bill . on balance , the Government have be careful in their approach to how they intend to regulate , ensure that it will be proportionate to the club ' individual circumstance accord to factor such as league , club size and financial health . by empower the regulator with a narrow focus , we can prevent overreach while ensure that club remain financially stable . I welcome the fact that the regulator ' s power to ensure financial sustainability through redistribution of broadcast revenue , for example , will apply only in extremis . fan be highly attach to their club ' s image , whether that be the name , the badge or the colour . it be therefore welcome that owner will have to consult on such change . we hear early about the incident at Hull City a few year ago when the owner try to change the name and so on , which certainly do not go down well with fan . that be just one controversial element of the Allam family ' s ownership of the club , with a frequent trend be the owner ' s inability to understand tradition , which be so important to fan . the Secretary of State actually come to Blundell Park in Cleethorpes to launch the policy , which be only right give the true status of Grimsby Town , who thankfully have be save from relegation to the national league yet again . as she rightly note : " football be nothing without its fan . " I applaud her determination and that of the Sports Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , to put fan back at the heart of the game . the Government ' s propose regulator will ensure the sustainability of our nation ' s favourite sport and that the connection to fan be maintain , while not change the fundamental of the game itself . on that basis , I be happy to support the Bill . there be much to welcome in the Bill , which build on the excellent fan - lead review conduct by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . it will give fan more of a say in how club be run and the wide premier league redistribution of broadcast revenue — what be not to like ? the core of the Bill be financial stability . we do need an independent regulator to stand up for the interest of small club and the EFL against globalisation , which be see in not just americanisation but oligarchs and sportswashing . I welcome the Bill , but , of the crouch recommendation , the Government have regrettably opt out of action on equality , diversity and inclusion . against a backdrop of Bury go under , a pandemic that no one predict and the spectre of the european super league thwart for now , it be notable that , since 1992 , 16 club have go into administration . how much will the Bill address ? it be too late for bury ; will reading , on the brink of extinction , be next ? we need a regulator with appropriate tooth to take away licence from rogue owner — those venture capitalist who think about balance sheet , profit margin , asset strip and destroy club — because football club be so much more than simply business . I know that from the work do locally by QPR and Brentford , and the email that I get from Professor David Gilbert of Ealing . he describe how his family have be read fan since 1871 and tell I how Dai Yongge be not co - operate with the fan and have destroy club in China and Belgium . after the pitch invasion against Port Vale , he say : " I be at the game and the protest that lead to the abandonment … I be watch from the seat that my late mother and brother watch from until they die … my grandfather support from the 1920 … I have be go since 1969 . that experience be not atypical of supporter in many town and community across the country , who have little or no say in the fate of their club . " the club may be save — I think there be an american bid at the moment — but that be a perfect case study or a textbook example in the future of why we need more protection , because of the collective social and cultural heritage of our club . however , the relationship between the English Premier League and the EFL and the distort effect of parachute payment , which have massively unbalanced the beautiful game , be not address in the Bill . although there be clause on regulatory power to force a financial redistribution of revenue , the Bill seem to think only of broadcast revenue . it would be easy to knock the Premier League for its hospitality towards mps — it be in here late last night , wining and dining people — and its attempt to push the free market , but in recent year our club have do we proud in Europe , in all - England final in 2019 and 2021 , and in 2023 . they have change football ' s reputation from how I first remember it in the 1980 , when it be synonymous with fan behave badly , racism , hooliganism and violence . they have clean up their act . football bring soft power and tourism , but I worry that the value of the FA cup , which use to be such a big thing , be be lose with all these european competition . we need some sort of transparency and consistency , and a clear system on point deduction : why be Everton fall foul repeatedly , and not Man City ? why the mismatch between different system and different league ? I welcome the focus in this Bill on the football pyramid , which often seem , as Diana Ross would say , " Upside down " . my son give I a figure of £ 1 . 7 million a day generate by Man United , but that be not find its way down to the bottom of the pyramid . as the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford say in chapter 6 of her review : " football need to improve equality , diversity and inclusion in club with committed EDI Action plan " regularly address by the regulator , but that be completely miss from this Bill . we know there be gap in leadership , ownership and management — and who would benefit from reform ? player , parent and referee would benefit . the figure speak for themselves : the high up we go , the boardroom become almost a white male preserve . we know woman ' s football be increasingly expand . we could also look at the issue of social class as well . how else will we kick it out , as the name of the racism charity demand ? even from a business point of view , in every other sector — civil service , local government , bank , wherever we go — edi be central . it should not be see as an add - on , with this patchwork of different system and plan ; we need a level playing field . kick it out figure show that racism and misogyny , offline and online , be all up . we need a proper regulatory framework for deal with those , and I feel we have miss a trick . the word " fan " appear only 16 time in this 140 - page Bill . the Bill stop short of the golden share veto power that the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford recommend . this legislation be fundamentally about finance , but we have hear about the ending of FA cup replay . Brentford , a local team , do well out of they a few year ago , yet now that they be in the premier league , they be all for ban replay . that need address , because it be a big financial incentive to the small club . there be also the problem of top team in tournament — and it be a problem . let we not kid ourselves that the FIFA club world cup expansion do not have super league - style motive at its heart . although that be go , I think it be try to come back in disguise , like the propose champion league reform . those have be reject for now , but let we be wary of all these thing . there will be resistance to change , but we need a truly independent regulator as the Football Supporters Association tell we . I welcome this Bill , but when we have Joey Barton say woman pundit should be ban from ITV , and the awful thing that John Yems say , such as the n - word and " curry muncher " , there be a bit missing . the Sports Minister be excellent on this issue — he go to Qatar with a rainbow armband — so perhaps he could tell we in his summing - up what he will do to address it . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I want to put on record how proud I be of how hard the Minister have work on this Bill . he be an absolute credit to this Government with what he have do here . the recent event around change to the FA cup show just how press this Football Governance Bill and the establishment of the independent regulator be . as we consider the implication and potential of this legislation , it be crucial that we approach the task with urgency , recognise how important it be for football club up and down our country . football be not just a game in our country ; it be weave into the fabric of all of our community . the club that dot our landscape , from the grand stadium of the premier league to the intimate ground of the low division , serve not just as team to support , but as community hub and source of local pride . yet , despite the critical role that these club play , the sustainability of the football pyramid be under significant threat . the crux of the issue lie in the financial disparity that have grow ever starker over the decade . the Premier League , while a global success , have see its financial might grow exponentially , far outpace the rest of the pyramid . that imbalance be not merely a matter of elite success , but a structural issue that endanger the viability of club across all level . today , EFL club operate at a massive loss , collectively lose £ 471 million during the 2022 - 23 season alone . the establishment of an independent regulator , as propose in the Bill , be a measure long overdue . the regulator would have the authority not just to oversee but to intervene and correct the course , ensure that financial sustainability be not a mere aspiration but a reality . it would have power to impose financial solution that ensure the viability of club , reflect the need of community club across England . we must also address the need for fair distribution of revenue . as it stand , the financial gulf between the Premier League and the EFL have become a chasm . reform in revenue sharing and financial regulation be necessary to prevent small club from financial catastrophe when they fall from the Premier League , or attempt to compete without adequate support . in support the Bill , we be act to preserve the soul of football in England . this be about more than business ; it be about ensure that the joy , excitement and community spirit that football bring be not lose to financial mismanagement and unchecked commercial appetite . the Bill present an opportunity to reform our football pyramid to be both competitive and sustainable . it ensure that club can continue to thrive for the benefit of their fan , local community , and our national game . it align with the recommendation of the fan - lead review , and respond to the clear need for great fairness and foresight in our approach to football governance . it would be remiss of I if I do not mention my local club , Accrington Stanley , which be one of the 12 found member of the football league . although it be famous for the milk advert , what people also remember be that in 1962 it have to resign its position from the football league and subsequently go into liquidation in 1966 . that be not common then . unfortunately , we be now see it happen with many of our club . I have speak with the owner of my club , Andy Holt , about this legislation more time than I can remember . he be clear , as be I , that if we be to protect club lower down the league , we need not only to give they a level playing field , but to provide they with the space to invest in their community , whether through investment in facility or work with child and young people . this legislation be require . I want to talk briefly about the suggestion from my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) on redistribute fine to grassroots community . I think that be a very good idea . I have see the impact Accrington Stanley have locally . it really be the heart of the community . it bring the community together and I would hate to think of the counterfactual , where it be no long viable for the club to continue serve my constituency in the way it do . I therefore urge my fellow member to support the Bill , and to stand for fairness , sustainability and the long - term health of english football . let we ensure that the game we love be protect for future generation not just as a spectacle of sport , but as a cornerstone of the community we serve . it be a pleasure to speak today . I thank the Secretary of State , the Minister , the hon . member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , who have be a superb campaigner for read football club , and other member from across the House . broadly speak , I welcome the Bill , but at the outset I would like to pay tribute to our wonderful club , read football club , its player and its fan . the man ' s and woman ' s team be both relegate last year . as be refer to early , that be through no fault of their own . the crisis at the club be due entirely to financial mismanagement by the current owner , Mr Dai Yongge . despite be relegate , and with the risk of further relegation hang over they , player and fan have battle through and we hope they have sustain the future of the club . thankfully , Dai Yongge now appear to be sell the club , and we hope that a bright future lie ahead . I hope that this Bill will ensure that other club do not have to face what reading have be through , and that football can move on to a bright future . when reading be in the championship , Dai Yongge start his period as the owner of the club by invest in their future . however , his behaviour change over time , and the story we face be one of a failure to pay wage and , indeed , national insurance . this lead to a series of wind - up petition from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , and ultimately to 16 point be deduct . that , rather than anything that happen on the pitch , determine the situation at Reading . this season , the financial problem have continue . unfortunately , further point deduction have be make , although we be grateful to the EFL for its decision that they be suspend . in an incredible effort , the player have battle hard and avoid relegation from league one , and we hope they have secure the future of the club . however , the pressure on player , fan and the whole town have be absolutely awful . we have be through , and be still go through , the bad crisis in our club ' s history . read football club be found in 1871 and be one of the old member of the football league , and their proud history include get the high number of point in the championship — 106 — have three season in the premiership and go on a glorious series of cup run , include win the Simod cup in the 1980 and several impressive FA cup run . during this period of great difficulty , emotion have run high . some 1 , 400 people , include the hon . member for Bracknell and I , join a march to the stadium in October , and there have be numerous other protest . fan simply want their reading back , and I would encourage Dai Yongge to speed up the sale . as I say , we must ensure that what happen at reading never happen again . we need a well test for owner and a well assessment of club finance , as mention early . above all , we need to ensure that club , player and fan be not penalise for the action of owner , however irresponsible they be . I have some point to make to the Minister and the Secretary of State . although I welcome the Bill , I would like far more detail on a number of key area that I hope we will explore in Committee , particularly the test for owner and director , the assessment of financial resilience , the oversight of financial plan , and the protection of ground and training ground , which be another problem we might face . in read ' s case , the sale might separate the training ground from the ground , which have cause a great deal of concern and have , I hope , now be resolve . I hope the Minister will address some of those issue and that they will be explore more fully in Committee . I believe that the Bill be a real opportunity for english football , and indeed for football in Wales , and I hope that we can all look forward to a bright future for all our football club , particularly read . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , as I have be watch reading since 1965 and the last two year have be as miserable a time as any — even if support Reading be often through thick and quite a lot of thin . like everyone else in the House , I welcome the eventual arrival of the Bill . I pay tribute to Ministers for finally get to this point , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for her work on the fan - lead review . much of the Bill be welcome and necessary , but it be worth put it into a historical context . as I say , I grow up watch football in the ' 60 , ' 70 and ' 80 , when it be terrible . it be describe at the time as a slum game in slum facility . ground be crumble , the fan experience be terrible and there be a huge amount of violence . because some football fan behave like animal , all fan be treat like animal , and it be altogether miserable . today , however , the top end of football be regard around the world as one of the good thing about this country . I remember a former tourism Minister tell I that the three thing that make people like Britain and want to come here be the royal family , the BBC and premier league football , so it be important to put the various legitimate criticism of thing that happen in football into that context . the premier league have do some great thing for english football , but this Bill come from a fan - lead review , and every proposal should be assess as to whether it serve the interest of fan at all level of the game . we need an independent regulator because the league , and therefore the club , can not be trust to regulate themselves . my right hon . friend and I be both there in 2006 when Reading win the championship , put four past Derby . what a moment that be . I do not know whether he agree , but I think the current player and manager be do a crack job just to keep the club alive . I echo that . the fan , the player and the staff have form a bond of survival against Dai Yongge , which show the strength of feeling that all football fan have for their club . that be what we want to enhance . there have be debacle such as the european super league and the increase number of club whose fan have suffer — it be not just read , although reading have feature a lot in this debate because it be the late example . we hope that no more fan will have to suffer in the way that we have suffer . the question be whether the Bill will be effective in practice . one issue at the heart of the Bill be financial distribution . how do we distribute the enormous sum generate by the Premier League without kill that golden goose ? it be a difficult balancing act . the regulator can not be a panacea , and it will have to be both tough and smart . there be specific question that need answer . first , be the backstop power sufficient ? in the end , the regulator have to choose between a Premier League offer and an EFL demand , and there be certainly an argument to be have about whether the regulator should have power to make its own settlement , possibly involve other body in decide on what the settlement should be . we have debate parachute payment , and I confess that I be still slightly confuse as to the Government ' s attitude and desire towards parachute payment , which be the key to why the championship be a very skewed league . I have be look at the figure provide by Fair Game , a very good lobbying group . currently , for every £ 1 , 000 of the broadcasting deal , £ 882 go to each premier league club , £ 73 . 48 go to championship club in receipt of parachute payment and £ 32 . 85 go to championship club not in receipt of parachute payment . More than twice as much go to the club with parachute payment as go to the club without parachute payment . that be how we get a skewed league . the great disparity between the premier league payment , which people might say be fair enough because it attract the broadcasting money , and the championship payment do not reflect attendance . for every 1 , 000 people who attend football match in the 2022 - 23 season , 497 attend premier league match and 234 attend championship match . championship crowd be just under half of premiership crowd , but the distribution of money to premier league club be more than 10 time as much , so it do not reflect what fan be do . the next question be how we solve the problem of people like read ' s owner . he be a reckless owner who be immune to sanction because he be not in this country . he spend money , break rule , incur penalty , lose interest and go away . the only penalty leave , because he be ignore the financial penalty , be point deduction . I agree with the EFL on parachute payment but , frankly , it have be a bit of a chocolate teapot on protect read ' s interest . all the EFL have do be deduct point , which just punish the fan . what in the Bill will help that ? I think the licensing regime will help , because a competent regulator clearly would not let someone like Dai Yongge own a football club in the first place , even though the EFL do . the question still remain of what happen if an owner ' s circumstance change , such as if they lose a huge sum of money and can not afford to support their club any more , or if they just lose interest . they might die , and their family or business associate who take over might not care about the club . what happen then ? I would make one suggestion to Ministers , which would involve only a small tweak to the Bill : clause 52 allow the regulator to levy money from every licensed club , so why should some of that levy money not be use to set up a survival fund ? where a completely reckless owner be walk away and leave a club to go out of business , as Dai Yongge have do in two other country , such a fund would allow the regulator , over the few month when a club need to find a new owner , to pay thing such as the national insurance that have not be pay at Reading or the wage that be not pay for a couple of month . I accept that would not be a long - term solution , but have a short - term solution would make a huge difference . as the Bill already set up the possibility of a levy , I suggest extend its possible use to set up this survival fund , so that if something like this happen again , the new system of regulation will explicitly be able to cope with it . the introduction of the Bill mark a big step forward and I hope that it survive largely intact . as I , like other , have say , there be improvement to be make , and I urge Ministers at all time to keep the interest of fan at the front of their consideration , because without the fan , there be no point to professional sport . I declare an interest , as a lifelong Blackburn Rovers fan and a supporter of Kendal Town , who be in the North West Counties football league — I be begin to fear that one day we might end up play each other at this rate . to prove that football be more about unite we than divide we , I have , accidentally , wear claret and blue today , as a nod to our dear friend Burnley . [ laughter . ] I be at Grange Church of England Primary School last week , where a bright year 5 lad ask , " Tim , what sport do you enjoy the most ? " . I nearly say football , but then I realise that I do not enjoy football at all ; it make I completely frustrated and miserable , but it do rule my life and occupy most of my wake moment . it be a hugely important thing , as it bind and create community , it create share experience and it help to build what it be to be English and to be british . so I be a thoroughly proud football fan . I love the game and want to stand in solidarity with all other football fan , even those of team I do not approve of . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , who be back in her place , and the fan - lead review , which have underpin the Bill . my party and I welcome the principle behind it and the independent regulator . we acknowledge that football be integral to our culture and that the whole pyramid be vital to the game . Michael o ' Neill , the chairman of Kendal Town — his be an unpaid role at a wonderful club that be do incredibly well at the moment — have say that the " top of the pyramid would not exist without the foundation " . he be absolutely right about that , but the foundation include not just the club lower down the pyramid , but the youth game and the Westmorland County FA , and what it do for young people , support mental health , build resilience and teamwork , and create community . I be supportive of part 3 of the Bill , on licensing , although it be an important moment to do some redistribution , take a proportionate share from each of the club to ensure that we fund the additional requirement of meet the licensing . part 4 of the Bill , as we have hear , be about owner and director . I express my solidarity with the supporter of Reading — we think of Dai Yongge and what he have do to that club and community . not yet so awful — but watch this space — be what have happen with Venky ' s , who own the Rovers . Blackburn Rovers be a club in limbo and the question be whether or not we be a go concern , because of the owner ' plight in the indian court . we have to ask ourselves the extent to which part 4 will give the regulator power to deal with the Dai Yongges and Venkys of this world and make they put up , pay up or sell up . nothing more underline the powerlessness of the fan than situation such as those , and fan of Bury , Bolton , Hull City and Cardiff City would concur . part 5 deal with the duty on club and competition organiser . I be go to table an amendment , if I be permit to do so , to bring back the replay in the FA cup and to restructure thing so that all compete team get an equal vote in decide the organisation and rule of that cup . this situation be an outrage and nothing more underline the arrogance and complacency of the Premier League than its thinking it can dictate to the rest of the league and the non - league how that glorious and almost ancient competition will be . if my amendment be successful , the Premier League might get away with one year of no replay , but we will get they back the year after when the whole of the footballe establishment actually get a vote . my main concern be on part 6 — I will not go through every part of the Bill — and the power of last resort . I be deeply concerned that we have only partial financial oversight . this be where football fan feel a sense of disappointment , and the Government have be a little weak in this regard . it feel like they have listen to the powerful few rather than the club , the fan or the volunteer . the financial power seem to be restrict to simply be a mediator between the Premier League and the English Football League , and actually the Premier League and the championship when all say and do . the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) have talk about some of the financial division , and let we look at the allocation . of every £ 1 , 000 receive in broadcast revenue , £ 882 go to premier league club and £ 32 to championship club — that be about enough for Blackburn Rovers to buy another pair of goalkeeping glove and , by golly , we could do with they . if you go down far , 15p go to national league north club , and a fat zero to anything below the national league . if the pyramid be important , then the foundation be important . I want the regulator to have the power to make sure that the Premier League and the championship do not hog all the money , and that they distribute properly and effectively down the division . I want to pay tribute to Kendal Town — the mighty Mintcakes , as we be know — because they speak for and represent so many other non - league club . five hundred people a week watch the great team manage by Jimmy Marshall . everybody at that club be a volunteer . what good could be do by a relatively small amount of redistribution of that money down to that level . Kendal Town have host 12 cup final of various kind at the Parkside Road ground this year . it cost they £ 8 , 000 to maintain that ground , and they get nothing for it . a fairer deal be absolutely essential , and , so far , this Bill be the weak on that fair financial flow . it be important that the Government get that right beyond Second reading . at a time when the division between the division have never be great , I think it be worth pay a bit of attention to the parachute payment . there be a widening not just in quality , but in resource between the premier league and the championship , between the championship and league one , between league one and league two , and between league two and the national league . that reduce competition , entrench privilege and squash ambition . one key driver — perhaps the key driver to this division , certainly at the top end of the table — be the parachute payment , which be a completely unjustifiable disgrace . it be the great financial distortion in the game . this Bill duck that distortion — every football fan have notice that the Government have duck that distortion . therefore , people be deeply sceptical about whether the Government be serious about fairness in the game — rise — I be happy to give way to a North Ender . the Government have not only duck this issue , but the Bill itself contain something explicit that preclude a discussion of parachute payment when it come to the regulator ' s power . the hon . Gentleman make an important point and I agree with he . that explicitly need to be mention in the Bill , and we need to recognise that that be one way to allay the fear of those people who be sceptical about whether the Government be serious about this — as serious as the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford clearly be . have the Government get the interest of the fan at heart ? will they do stuff that be difficult and challenging for those people at the top of the game , or will they have just listen to lobbyist rather than the fan ? in closing , Blackburn Rovers be own by Jack Walker , the great owner of any football club ever . we say that we do not want billionaire in the game , but we will have people like that any day of the week — not just at Rovers , but anywhere else . he love his club , love his town and make a massive , massive difference . today we be own by venky ' s . it be allege that , when it take on Blackburn Rovers , Venky ' s believe that it be impossible to lose premier league status . it do not realise that a club could go down . gutted though I be that we go down and get relegate , I be nevertheless glad that venky ' s be wrong : there should be movement between the division ; there should be competition ; and there should be fairness . football be for the fan , not just for the powerful few . let we make sure that this regulator , in its financial oversight , be able to ensure that there be genuine fairness from the top to the bottom . this debate about a football regulator be quite interesting for I because , in all honesty , when I first hear about it I do not really want one . I do not believe in one from an ideological perspective , or see why we need to regulate sport at all . I always think the Football Association should be do that , but I think we have see — certainly in recent week , but really over quite a sustained period of time — that it simply have not do its job , and that also true of the Premier League , the EFL and so on . that be why I think we now have some proposal I can certainly support , and I think they actually strike a very good balance . I pay tribute to the Minister for his work , and to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , who do such a fantastic report in the first place . I be another one of those who be very angry that FA cup replay have be scrap . grow up , we always use to dream of lift the FA cup at Wembley . we would watch the team in the morning with the bus arrive , and it be a whole - day event . we would have the terrible cup final song and the story of the non - league club in the early round , and that be really what it be all about . the diminish pull of the FA cup for many of the team at the top have be very sad over the year , but it be still very special for many of our small club . we have just hear about Kendal Town , and we have Worksop Town in my constituency , which make the first round of the FA cup this season for the first time in a very long time . we play Stockport County in the first round and do manage to get an equaliser , although we let a few more goal in after that , unfortunately , and never get the replay . that be a special moment , and something many people will remember for the rest of their life . I will mention the other football club in my constituency so that I do not get some stick or a lot of angry email . we also very proud to have Retford United , Retford FC , Harworth Colliery and SJR Worksop as well . I be hope that license agreement for club be not too onerous and do not place too much of an unfair burden , particularly on small club , and it be the small club I be think of . they be the one who maybe can not afford to employ extra member of staff or will struggle with some of the extra bureaucracy . I think we should give they some time and make sure we do not make any unreasonable demand of they . we do not want mission creep , with the almost public sector - style equality and diversity target , requirement and endless thing that we do not actually need in football . I be very much in favour of light - touch regulation , and I do not want to be put our team at a competitive disadvantage to other team in Europe . as have be say , the Premier League do do a lot of wonderful thing . I have be one of its harsh critic over the year , be a Notts County fan . I can not see we ever win the premier league as it stand now . in fairness , we never win the old first division either . in fact , I think we be a founder member of the premier league when it first come to fruition , so we be the only founder club — since Luton Town get back there — that have never be a member of the premier league . so I be hearten to hear what the Secretary of State say today . we have have the situation with Gateshead this week , which very sadly have not be able to take part in the national league play - off . if we look at some of the requirement of the EFL — this have be go on for many year — I remember when we have champion of the conference that be tell they could not get promote . Sutton United , which go up not too long ago , have a very sustainable business model , with a 3 g pitch , but it be not allow to go up with that , and I think it spend about £ 500 , 000 get rid of it . it be second from bottom at the moment , and it may go back there . yet at the same time , we all have team play on artificial pitch , and I think there be a bit of a competition issue . Worksop Town have one of these pitch , and it have really help locally in make the club sustainable . I think where we can actually help here be that we actually talk about that competition issue . we could have well relationship between the Premier League , the EFL and the national league , and that be something to which I think a regulator can really make a good contribution . this would not be the first time a Government have step in . I remember the Taylor report , and what we do with stadium at the time . there have be a huge improvement in safety , attendance have go up and people can bring their family without some of the fear that use to be there in the 1980 . as a Notts County fan , I suppose I do have a bit of an interest in the three up , three down from the national league , as we do spend four year there , so I will declare a bit of interest . likewise , on the fit and proper test , we have also be a victim in the past , where the fit and proper test simply have not be fit and proper itself , and we end up with owner that have not have the good wish of the club at heart . thankfully , we have excellent owner now , and this be the kind of thing we can help they to get right . we do not want mission creep , or to be interfere with var or thing to do with player , or fiddle with the club . we be not there to be micromanager , and it would be a terrible shame if that happen . I be glad the Secretary of State mention try to avoid excessive cost and ensure that we be focus on the mission of the Bill . I think the balance be absolutely right , and I congratulate the Department on its work . football be not the banking industry . I know there be some thing that we could take as lesson , but the Bill be about football . we need to keep it about football and realise the unique position of football in our society . likewise , we be not Germany . our league be much deep and we have more of they , and the ownership structure be difficult . it would be wrong to copy another model . on involve fan , I be a member of a supporter trust , and the supporter trust run Notts County , and Stockport be another great example of a supporter trust . supporter generally do not have the finance , which can sometimes cause its own problem . I will finish with one of Ronald Reagan ' s most famous quote when he say that the " most terrifying word in the english language be : I ' m from the Government and I ' m here to help . " in this case we do not need to be terrify . these be sensible proposal . I be look forward to the Bill progressing and to hear a bit more about it , but from what I can see , this be positive for the game and I congratulate the Minister on that . I rise to do something I be unaccustomed to do , which be warmly welcome a piece of Government legislation . at the outset I declare an interest as a season ticket holder at and lifelong supporter of Manchester City , the world champion . not for the first time , I congratulate the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) not just on her excellent speech — I agree with every word — but because as the Secretary of State say , she lay the foundation for the Bill . we be all grateful to she . football bring community together , but for too long decision affect our game have be make without reference to those community and to the fan , without whom football would be nothing , and without regard to the long - term interest of individual club and the wide game . indeed , some historic club have collapse because of the owner ' reckless action , and the perverse incentive create by the pyramid ' s finance . the long we have wait for change , the more club have be bring to the brink . football have be in need of reform for some time . labour have commit to that reform , so we be glad that this much - delay Bill have the potential to address that . I be pleased it be here . the Bill be mostly well think through , and the licensing regime and regulated power be mostly well frame , tightly draw and positive . I congratulate the Minister on his hard work . we have hear a lot in recent week about unintended threat to the premier league , but not a single one of we in the Chamber want to threaten the sporting and economic success of the premier league . I love watch premier league football . I watch too much of it . it be the most exciting , high - quality league in the world . it be one of our great export and cultural strength . nothing in the Bill will jeopardise that success . we have hear a fair amount of scaremongere in recent week about the Bill ' s unintended consequence , but without any evidence . frankly , I more concerned about the unintended consequence of the Premier League ' s financial success , and consequent financial dominance . club be spend unsustainably to get into and stay in the premier league . as we have hear , EFL club lose £ 471 million collectively during the 2022 - 23 season . EFL club be gamble everything to get into the premier league , fail , and face financial crisis as a result . all that put the sustainability of our team and game into jeopardy . those be the unintended consequence we should be worry about , and which the Bill can help to address . in warmly welcome the Bill , I wish to make a few comment about area where it can be improve and strengthen . the regulator ' s objective — rightly , I think — be to protect the financial soundness of club , to protect and promote the financial resilience of english football , and to safeguard the heritage of english football — excellent . there be a reference in the White Paper specifically to protect and promote the financial resilience of the pyramid . it might be that the phrase " financial resilience of English football " be enough , but perhaps the Minister will explain why that reference , which be in the White Paper , do not make it into the Bill . on the propose financial redistribution power , it be obviously important that the regulator have backstop power to intervene in financial distribution between league where necessary . it be right that the regulator will be able to step in in circumstance where the Premier League and the EFL can not agree a deal . for that to happen , one of those party have to initiate the process , and the regulator make the decision base on the proposal put forward by each party . that seem a reasonable enough system , but I agree that there be a question about whether the regulator should also have the power to put forward its own proposal , if they be deem to be beneficial to the football pyramid as a whole . I do not understand why parachute payment be specifically exclude from the scope of the regulator , as appear to be the case in the Bill . we have hear a lot in the past few week about the money that the Premier League give to the rest of the EFL . accord to the FSA , between 2019 and 2022 the Premier League share £ 887 million in what be term " core funding " , but £ 663 million of that go to relegate club via parachute payment . as I understand it , 92 % of the tv income go to 25 club — those in the premier league and those in receipt of parachute payment . the other 67 club get just 8 % . it be obvious that parachute payment be a significant distort element of the system . if we be to have a dispute resolution mechanism between the two body , it be difficult to see how that will work effectively when such a large chunk of the money for redistribution be exclude from scope . finally , on redistribution , I would be pleased to see more opportunity for the regulator to step in to determine further redistribution to grassroots football , community spending , woman ' s football , youth development , player pension and those sort of thing . that be not to be do without careful consideration , but as a backstop provision for potential problem in the future . I be run out of time , but I will mention football fan engagement and decision - make power . it be good to see the setting of a strong minimum standard for fan engagement as part of the threshold for club get a licence . the original fan - lead review go far with the requirement for a golden share . I be not suggest that we must have that , but I urge the Minister to look again at those area of the Bill to ensure meaningful fan consent . whether we be talk about regulated colour of home shirt or the ground , club should demonstrate that the fan have a significant say . finally , there be some element miss from the regulator ' s remit that be recommend by the fan - lead review . it be a miss opportunity that the Government have not take on board the recommendation for a transfer levy to help redistribute resource . it be also disappointing that the requirement for club equality , diversity and inclusion action plan have not be progress . the Government will say that that should be part of the annual licensing process , but I would welcome ministerial assurance on that , probably specify during the Bill ' s passage . I would have like to see some reference to environmental sustainability . we all need to play our part for the future of the planet . I also wonder whether the Bill would benefit from further clarification on what support be available if a club look to be at risk of be unable to meet the condition of a permanent licence . I have run out of time . I look forward to the Bill ' s passage , and I hope that the Minister will take on board the comment make today . this be an opportunity to put our football pyramid on a sustainable footing for year to come ; I look forward to support it this evening . it be great to be able to contribute to this debate , because although they say the Black Country be build on coal and metal , we be also build on football . I straddle the two club at the heart of the Black Country derby — namely , West Bromwich Albion and Wolverhampton Wanderers . this be a pertinent Bill and a pertinent debate for my community in the Black Country . we go through absolute hell with the financially precarious situation surround West Bromwich Albion . at one point , the club be have to borrow £ 20 million just to keep the light on . an independent regulator step in to ensure ultimately that fan of football club — cherish part of the community — can keep that club and that entity there , can enable that sustainability and can put these people , who be often behind the scene , under the cosh and under scrutiny be absolutely the right way forward . I commend the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , for his work on the Bill , and my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , who have be an absolute champion in this space . she should be so proud of what she have achieve ; the Bill be a real testament to her work . we have cover a plethora of issue in the debate , not least the football pyramid . what I perceive at time be the inequity of the system we have get . I deal a lot with fantastic grassroot football club , which many member have talk about . sometimes the narrative and discourse about the need for regulation involve a top - down approach , and of course we must highlight the important work that our premier league club do , but let we not forget that the pipeline to many of those club be first and foremost through grassroots football , which a lot of the player we talk about — those star and talent — come through . my fantastic local football club , such as Tipton Town football club in my constituency , constantly share their frustration that they be ignore , leave out or put under ridiculous burden that they often have to meet without resource . everyone have touch on the replay issue . I say to my right hon . friend the Minister that it be a complete kick in the tooth , particularly for club that be far down the pyramid and rely on the revenue from get people through the gate . again , it just seem that the fa be only listen in its echo chamber , quite frankly . the Government have a tricky line to tread in ensure that football be independent and adhere to UEFA and FIFA rule on Government interference . on FA cup replay , do my hon . friend believe that there be a role for a reconsideration mechanism , so that Government can bounce the decision back to the regulator and ask , " have you potentially get this wrong , and will you think again ? " my hon . friend be almost ask for a replay of the replay — that be sort of where the question be . I get the point that he be try to make about balance and the fine - line argument on Government interference . the point have be make quite strongly , as we have all see — the FA ' s own survey find that 70 % of fan want to retain replay — and with that level of public pressure , there be a role for the Government in facilitate the pressure on the fa . I think that that be the point that he be hammer down on , although obviously the fa must ultimately be independent . I represent Gillingham , which have an amazing football club : the Gills . the club be in administration in 1995 and be buy for £ 1 by the then chairman , Paul Scally . now it be do exceptionally well and go up the league , but it be a small club and it rely on FA cup replay . if we be really passionate about support small club in the community , and about ensure that the fa do the right thing by support they , we need the Government to work with the fa to ensure that we get this right . just like my hon . friend ' s club , Tipton Town in my constituency get through on FA cup replay and benefit from that opportunity . the fact that so many member have voice that concern , as he have do so eloquently , highlight the strength of feeling about it . let I move away from that issue to look at the Bill operationally . I welcome the licensing regime ; the provisional and permanent licence be a pragmatic way to do thing . I will be interested in see , in Committee and in the secondary legislation that follow the Bill , the detail of the regime . I appreciate that there be quite often flexibility and gap in primary legislation to allow for a more pragmatic approach , but it be important to ensure that we build structure for fan consent and support so that club be do thing properly , particularly when it come to move stadium and ground . that will be a really important thing for we to work on to ensure that when the legislation be implement , it be do in such a way that people can not circumvent and dodge its intention , as so often happen with such legislation . in support the Bill , I want to touch on the important community impact that many member have highlight . at the core of this second read debate be the principle behind the Bill and the importance of what it seek to achieve . my near club , West Bromwich Albion , do fantastic community work through the Albion Foundation . it be a pleasure to meet its representative only a few week ago , and to see that the legend that be Blind Dave Heeley receive an award at the EFL Awards . Dave have raise £ 3 million on his own for the Albion Foundation to support vulnerable people in our community to get into sport . I be proud to support the Albion Foundation ' s six town strategy in Sandwell to reach out to community that often be disconnect and ensure that they benefit from the positive of football . without that important financial stability , which the Bill try to ensure through its regulatory structure and regime , organisation like the Albion Foundation would not be able to do their work . I want to touch on the issue of West Bromwich Albion . to be quite frank , the previous owner use the club as a piggybank , borrow money from the club to take it elsewhere . that be not on . it be an example of someone who do not love their football club and have no understanding of the emotional attachment that a community such as mine have to it . the Bill ' s transparency provision try to stop that . we must also ensure that the corporate structure surround that work too . we can not have shady or opaque ownership structure , such as what we see with West Bromwich Albion — I be glad to say , no more — which enable a situation like that to occur . I pay tribute to the fantastic Action for Albion group , which do amazing work to highlight the club ' s issue , and fight tooth and nail for the club . down to its work , we be able to save the club and ensure its future longevity . no politician can take credit for the work of Action for Albion ; it be a truly community - lead campaign to safeguard our club . I be conscious of the time I have remain , and I do not want to be too repetitive . I have a few ask of the Minister , which I be sure he will really appreciate . we talk of the pyramid model , which I like to refer to as aspirational . can he ensure that , as we build out some of the requirement , club far up the pyramid will not have in - build advantage over club far down , particularly give some of the disclosure and paperwork requirement ? the club high up can afford savvy lawyer who can try to get around those requirement , but the club far down can not necessarily do that , particularly if they be have a meteoric rise up through the league , as some have in recent year . we need to ensure that there be no disparity . I appreciate that financial provision be in place for that , but we need to ensure that the requirement be not too onerous . I highlight to the Minister the need to ensure that consultation be meaningful — not just for the sake of it — and that the relevant structure be build in . I support this Bill ; it be the right thing . it be what community like mine in the Black Country — football be at the heart of who they be — have be call for . it be now imperative that as we build out the Bill , we get it right operationally . I commend the Minister for his work on it . the measure be necessary but woefully insufficient . the regulator be vitally necessary but the idea that the danger be over - regulation be wholly misconceive . the danger be that the regulator will not have the power or the ambition to take on board even the excellent proposal bring forward in the fan - lead inquiry lead by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . many time during the early part of the debate it be say that football be a business , but to paraphrase Bill Shankly , it be much more important than that . I be sit in the House of Commons celtic supporter ' club — a surprisingly large and august institution in this place — when the club ' s then chairman repeatedly refer to we as customer . I point out at the end of the meeting , " with all respect , sir , we be not customer . customer shop around ; if they do not like what be on your shelf , they will go across the road and try someone else ' s . we be here because our father be here , and our son and now , thank God , our daughter will be here for the very same reason . " Speaker after speaker have adumbrate the local case of their football club and the centrality of those club to their community . recently , rochdale football club — which , sadly , be now in the national league — run into real danger of hit the wall . I commend the hon . gentleman on the point he be put forward . the consensus of opinion in this Chamber seem to be that every MP support their club and their fan and want to see a difference . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Bill that will have its Second reading today will be to the benefit of all the club , the fan and their mp ? do he also agree that Northern Ireland should also have some of the improvement and guideline that be in the Bill , so that we in Northern Ireland can have the same guideline and the same way forward ? if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , as a supporter of a united Ireland I will not follow he down that path . I look forward to he thrive in an irish football environment and ask the Taoiseach for the necessary support , rather than Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to make a point about the gall of the Premier League lobby we yesterday , say that all these matter should be leave to the free market . what kind of free market be it when at least three premiership team be own by foreign country ? some be more thinly veil than other , but there be three foreign country in the premier league right now , and what country ! they be not country that would be allow to buy the Daily Telegraph , but they be allow to buy top blue - chip football club in England . what be local about that ? why would we allow foreign state to buy piece of our national treasure that be also of extraordinary importance to local community ? I be just talk about the funereal atmosphere there be when it look like Rochdale AFC , have fall out of the league into the national league , might go out of business altogether . hopefully , that problem have be at least partially resolve . I remember many great match between the wonderful team of Rochdale and Gillingham in the low league . in 1999 , Gillingham be play Manchester City in the Wembley play - off for the second division , and now Manchester City be in the premiership . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be absolutely right : the success of football club should not be down to the investment of foreign country . it should be about regulated investment in small club such as Gillingham and Rochdale , enable they to go up , rather than rely on the investment of international sovereign wealth fund in our football league . he be absolutely right that the Premier League have a role and responsibility to support small club . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who have make a very important point . as member can imagine , we in the Workers party want to save football for the worker : for the work class who give it birth and be its mainstay for many , many decade — for a century — before the premiership even exist , and who be now price out of the game . it now cost £ 60 to attend a premiership match . for a man and wife go , it cost £ 120 . a woman and her son , with a burger and a cup of Bovril throw in , be spend £ 100 to go to a football match — all to fund the fantastic profit that be be make in the premiership . I declare an interest : I have three son in youth football , all of whom I think have the capacity to make it . I will be their agent , so that be a future pecuniary interest . my son be play not on plastic pitch , which be disparagingly refer to early , but on grass that have not be cut all year , with hump and bump and hill and hollow . by definition , a pyramid have a very , very large bottom , and that bottom be where we need to filter the money — not to agent , not to premiership player on half a million pound a week . I be not make that number up . some player get half a million pound a week for play — look at Manchester United at the weekend — not very well or even very energetically at all . football be in a terrible state . the Workers party have a policy . I do not have time to discuss it , but I commend it to the House . our policy on football be this : we believe not in fan have a golden share , though that would be a big step forward , but in fan ownership of football club — [ interruption . ] I see some scoff , and to those who scoff I say that german football be fan - own . the great Bayern Munich , the next champion of Europe — who have win the championship of Europe 10 time , I think — be 51 % supporter - own . Borussia Dortmund , another power in Germany , be 78 % fan - own . would not that solution end the problem of foreign state or these rum foreigner buy our top club ? Johnny Foreigner have be mention several time . they live outside our border , can not be reach by sanction and walk away from fine . would not this solve that problem ? of course , we also have our own rum owner from our own land who own football club and run they into the ground . if the fan own the team , would not that be a well solution ? someone say that Parliament should not be regulate whether there be replay on a Wednesday . why not ? if it be the people ' s game and we be the people ' s representative , we be absolutely entitle to have a view on the cheating of low division supporter of the chance to take a big premiership club to a lucrative replay . we have every right to be outrage by that . if the Football Association be listen to this debate , we should tell it that it will be force to reinstate replay . if not now , then soon . my final point concern the two team with which I be most closely associate : Glasgow Celtic in Scotland and Manchester United in England . Manchester United have foreign owner who have loot the club of billion of pound . they do not even buy the club . they buy it , then borrow against the club ' s asset to cover the money that they pay to buy it , and they have pay themselves a king ' s ransom in dividend . the Glazers must go — that be the feeling of 99 . 9 % of Manchester United supporter — but how can we make they go ? well , we get rid of Celtic ' s board . I be one of the proud member of the Sack the Board campaign and my good friend Brian Dempsey lead it . we sack the board by popular pressure , and popular pressure will have to be maintain on the robber baron from New York , the Glazers , before they destroy Manchester United altogether . it be a huge privilege to speak on the long - await Football Governance Bill . not only be this a matter of great importance to sport fan across the UK and beyond ; it be also a personal passion and I commend everybody that have be involve in get the Bill this far . locally in Berkshire we have a proud football pedigree . read FC be the only league club in Berkshire . it have a proud history and have do brilliantly this season to survive in league one against all the odd . in my constituency , Bracknell Town and Sandhurst Town have also enjoy strong season , and across the border in Hampshire , Aldershot Town be back on the map after their most exciting season for year . well do to Tommy Widdrington and his player . I be at the Dagenham game on Saturday , which be brilliant . it be a pity that Dagenham do not quite make the national league play - off , but next season will be even well . as the father of two young son who play to a decent level , I know that well regulation of the game be essential to their future , and to the future of all our club . this be the beautiful game , and it do need well regulation to ensure that football always come home . we know what the Bill do : it seek to establish an independent football regulator , and include provision that seek " to protect and promote the sustainability of english football " for the benefit of fan and local community . that be very important , but I say to the Minister that regulation must be light - touch . give the pre - eminence of football in the UK , we must not throw the baby out with the bathwater by inadvertently make the Premier League , the English Football League or the national league less attractive to owner , potential investor , the medium or the fan . as we know , the Premier League be also the world ' s lead football brand , and be worth billion to the UK . if it ain ' t break , please don ' t fix it . regulation , then , must be just enough . it must be balance to protect club and fan from rogue owner , but without jeopardise the game . recent history be litter with example where it have go badly wrong : Southend United , Wigan , Portsmouth , Bury , Colchester , Sheffield Wednesday , Hull , Derby and several other , but most recently and perhaps most spectacularly of all , read . for a fan such as I , the last few year have be gall . we have see freefall from the premier league , 18 point of deduction , huge fine , player not be pay , bill not be settle and fan in despair , and I feel their pain . let I put this on the record : I personally commend every single read fan . they have be magnificent , and they have support the club through thick and thin . I should also mention the brilliant sell before we Dai group , which have be so instrumental in this regard . do lobbying work ? absolutely yes , and I give credit to member as well — my right hon . friend the Members for read West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) and for Ashford ( Damian Green ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) and , in particular , the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , with whom I have work very closely in connection with read football club . member have leant in , in respect of reading and many other club . pressure have be bring to bear on owner , and a cross - party approach really do work : politic be always at its good when mp work together . as for the question of a pilot for the new regulator , I can not think of a well example than read . the new regulator must cut his or her tooth on that particular club — and the Bill itself must have tooth , because a regulator without power be of no use whatsoever . let I say to the Minister that I look forward to see the term of reference for the initial incumbent . the aim of the Bill be to put fan back at the heart of the game . it be about run club and put they back on their foot , and about heritage and future direction . as we have hear , it be also about sustainability , and about ensure that we lay the foundation for club as we go forward in english football . it must apply across the whole pyramid , and not just to the top five league . it be right that new owner and director will face strong test to stop club fall into the wrong hand , and will face the possibility of be remove and strike off from own football club if they be find to be unsuitable — and much more ; but the devil will be in the detail . as for read football club , I have learn several lesson this year . first , fan do matter and fan power do work . fan have a voice , and they have use their voice this year and before in relation to read FC . secondly , read Borough Council ' s decision to list the Select Car leasing stadium as an asset of community value under the Localism Act 2011 be a masterstroke . Dai Yongge be unable to sell the stadium , and rightly so . lastly , I give full credit to Wokingham Borough Council for a little deed for the Bearwood Park training centre . if a club can not legally sell its asset to another club , that club live on . once again , these measure have effectively stop further asset strip by Dai Yongge , and will lead to the successful future of read FC . reading be now move in the right direction . bill be be pay for March , April and May ; new owner be believe to be interested in the club , and we could yet survive . I thank everyone at read FC , and all the fan , for make this happen . so what be not in the Bill ? first , punitive action for owner who fail the test . I say to the Minister that they need not just to be ban from football but to be ban , full stop . they need to be ban from be director , or ban by HMRC . the Bill do not address welfare provision for player . what be club do to soften the blow for player who get reject or suffer mental health issue ? the Bill affect the top five league only ; it need to affect national league south , north and below because they be all worthy . the woman ' s game have be mention , but I feel strongly that the Bill need to go far on the woman ' s game in due course . lastly , the FA cup decision on replay be stop from round one be outrageous . it be nothing less than cultural vandalism of the world ' s great cup competition . if the large club have to play replay with the huge resource they have get , so what ? I have no sympathy whatsoever . have watch so many fa cup exploit over the year , not least at Sutton United and Woking , I do not buy the fa ' s logic . these cup tie be the stuff of legend . Magic do exist in sport . admittedly , no Government can regulate this , but if fa official be watch , I urge they to rethink that appalling decision . there be a large point about FA cup replay . those lucrative replay be once in a lifetime opportunity , but the fact that there be club that be rely on those lucrative replay demonstrate why we have a problem with finance in the football pyramid . although my hon . Friend say that the Government can not regulate on the matter , the Bill give the Secretary of State some amazing power to bring the FA cup into conversation . do my hon . friend agree that while it be not something that I particularly favour , it be something that can be do ? I agree wholeheartedly . anything that we can do in term of the regulation be worth pursue . I be at the Aldershot - West Brom game early this year , which be an incredible day out . that could have be a third round replay . the money raise from such occasion be extraordinary . while club can not depend upon that lifeline , it be a fantastic bonus when it happen . certainly , it help Aldershot massively with its finance this year . to conclude , I strongly support the Bill . I commend the DCMS , the Minister , the author of the Bill and my fantastic hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . the Bill be long overdue , but it be here now . I be also reassure that the Conservative Government have do this . it will make a huge difference to all club and fan — let ' s bring it on . like many across this Chamber , I thank those from across the political sphere , those within the footballe community and those who lead the fan - base review because their work be finally come to fruition with the second Reading debate of the Bill . the referee , in the shape of the independent football regulator , will finally be on the pitch . we be begin that journey . it be particularly fitting that this take place on St George ' s Day , as the english nation give the world the beautiful game . that nation now need to put its house in order , for the many and not the few , to ensure that the pyramid effectively work for league across the beautiful english game . as have be echo across the Chamber , by member of all political persuasion , we be only in this space because the premier league and those who govern our beautiful game have not get their house in order . that hand - off the pitch and that laissez - faire approach certainly have not work for our fan , our club and , importantly , our community . that have be mention in reference to Bury FC , one of our old football club in the country , certainly in the north - west of England where I represent . they be expel from the football league amid rise debt and financial problem . there have be other notable and document example at club like Bolton Wanderers , Derby County and , recently , read football club . these , and other club — we reckon there be around 60 such club — have a number of common factor : unfit owner , greed , asset selling , poor governance and long - stand alienation of the fan base . there be total disregard for history , identity , emotion and community . this laissez - faire , anything go approach — the wild west of football — must be bring to a full stop . to drive that , the new , independent football regulator must have tooth , with strong rule to ensure that our great footballe club have fit and proper owner . I would certainly like to see more club own and control by their fanbase . we have great example of that in my constituency , include Northwich and Runcorn Linnets , who only this weekend I see beat our rival Widnes . we want to see sustainable financial plan , with fan at the heart and soul of those club to protect asset such as stadium and historical identity . People have reference that — it be certainly in the Bill — in regard to kit and badge ; those thing be vital . I be a long - stand Manchester United fan , so I be familiar with problem of ownership . the Glazers , who have already be reference , buy the club on the never - never . they be one of the rich football club in the world ; they be now one of the most indebted , and that really have affect our performance on the pitch , which have be pretty woeful this year , include in the FA cup semi - final . I pay credit to Coventry , who play incredibly well , while we play incredibly badly . but the problem on the pitch come down to some problem with the ownership . I give up my Manchester United season ticket long ago — it be a difficult decision to make — because of the Glazers . I echo the clarion call — I do so at the time with my protest scarf and all the rest of it — that the glazer really must go . perhaps we be on the start of that journey , with some new ownership . I be a Cheshire and Merseyside MP , and quite a number of my constituent be Everton fan , who have be aggrieve by recent point deduction . some of those have be on financial issue — the purchasing of a stadium , and certainly player — but fairness be a real bone of contention . Everton have be deduct 10 point — a high number . that have go to appeal and so forth , yet they look at other club across Britain , such as the Manchester Cities and Chelseas of this world — by the way , Manchester City have have 115 breach — and see that those who have incredibly deep pocket , finance by sovereign wealth fund , seem to get away with it because they can afford the litigation . of course , Manchester City be not the only one — I have reference Chelsea , and there be certainly other . we have mention fit and proper ownership for our club . how can it be right that sovereign wealth fund of foreign state with woeful human right record own great british — english — football club such as Newcastle United ? it have be fairly well document that one such nation state have manage to execute more of its citizen than a striker for Newcastle United have put ball in the back of the net . that be horrendous . the hon . member — as he know , I be from the same part of the world as he — be make some excellent point . he touch on Bury FC in my constituency . I be interested in fairness in football . in the FA cup semi - final at the weekend , we see Manchester United — the winner as a result of about 1 mm in a video call — get £ 1 million , while Coventry City get £ 500 , 000 . for all that we in the Chamber talk about fairness in a general way , do he believe that that be a fair share of the money in the circumstance ? clearly not , and I think that there be space for the regulator to intervene . as have be reference , the FA cup can be a lifesaver for grassroot club . the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) , who be no long in his place , mention Gillingham , and I think that Bristol Rovers be also mention . again , the issue be financial sustainability . the regulator should intervene to ensure that the fa make the right decision for all our club , right across the pyramid . like many member across the Chamber , I think the Bill be great for the football community , and I credit all those who have be involve . it be very important that we have the fan at the heart of this . there be some issue , which hon . member on both side of the House have mention , to do with competition and the parachute payment , which be distort the footballe community , but overall I very much welcome and support this Bill . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) , who touch on the important issue in this debate . I particularly appreciate the way he very gently touch on the cost of the kit and of the badge , which I think follow on from his campaign to make school uniform affordable . that be such an important issue . I also appreciate how the hon . member for Rochdale ( George Galloway ) capture that sense that football fan be not just customer who can go to one supermarket or another . there be so much more about football . it be not just about a strong fan base , the acquisition of the right player , have good management and other thing that we would associate perhaps with a corporation ; it be about the family , the next generation , that sense of community and wellbeing , and people go to the stadium , walk together in solidarity to see their club . that be what football be about for so many community up and down the country . when Bolton fall into very difficult time recently , and — look not too far away — when Bury go into administration in 2020 , it be a traumatic experience for many football fan , even those watch an oppose team . Bolton come very close to be in that position , but since then we have regain our strength and improve our position . at the moment we be third in league one . we be in the play - off — and if Peterborough and Derby do the right thing and lose very badly with a huge goal difference , we might be in the automatic play - off position . my hon . friend make a sensible point , which not many people will know : Bury and Bolton be in essentially the same financial situation . both have go into administration at the same time . the regulator decide to expel Bury from the EFL and keep Bolton in the league . the suspicion be that , with Bolton be a big club than Bury , the regulator do not want to get rid of they , but poor little Bury could be use as an example . I think that be an example of why regulation be need in this sphere . I share my hon . friend ' s concern . the idea of one club of the status of Bury tumble out of the English football league be pretty grim , but to have two club do so would have be catastrophic for the EFL . I welcome the fact that the Government have listen to fan and club and bring forward this Bill to secure the game ' s future in England . the game ' s fractured governance model and the inequitable distribution of finance be increasingly put the future of the sport in England at risk . in the come debate on the passage of this Bill , Parliament have the opportunity to give the new independent football regulator the right power to ensure the game ' s sustainability for the good of the football pyramid , from the grassroot to the height of the premiership . any attempt to weaken the IFR ' s power or to make it a passive and ineffective entity should be strongly resist . a particular concern , bring to my attention by Ian Bridge of Bolton Wanderers Supporters Trust , relate to part 6 of the Bill on financial distribution , where question over parachute payment have not be rule out , and to whether the Bill in its current form can deliver on its objective of protect the financial sustainability of english football . I look forward to support this Bill throughout all its stage . I think the debate have be incredibly constructive . the Bill may need a little further refinement , but I welcome the work and effort of my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) and of the Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) . first of all , we be here today because football have fail to regulate itself over many year . it be our job as parliamentarian to ensure that , in the end , we regulate on the behalf of football fan for now and for the future , and for the community where our football club be base . that be our job . I will just begin by thank those who have get we to this position : the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , certainly ; the Minister for stick with it and bring the Bill before the House today ; and the EFL , the PFA , the Football Supporters ' Association and Fair Game for their advice . I even have a conversation with the Premier League , but let we say that that conversation do not lead to as much agreement as other conversation I have have with other football organisation . this be not a Bill to destroy the Premier League , as some have try to present it , include the Premier League itself . the Premier League have be a massively successful organisation . it have bring unimaginable wealth into football and into this country . the legislation be not here to destroy the Premier League , but to ensure that its great strength , its financial resource , can be use as a basis on which to strengthen the whole of the football pyramid . it be just a pity that the Premier League itself do not see it like that . it do not see its responsibility to the wide football game , but instead so often seem intent on narrowly focus its attention on support the handful of club that be within the Premier League . we just have to look at the other successful brand in english football : the pyramid . there be no other football pyramid like it in the world . the championship have the fifth - high attendance of any league in Europe . where else could you go on a Sunday afternoon to a second - tier relegation game and get 7 , 500 fan not in the home end but in the away end ? Sheffield Wednesday do that at Blackburn on Sunday — and win , I hasten to add , give ourselves hope of salvation . that be the strength there , but the incredible power of the Premier League ' s resource be slowly begin to corrode and erode the basis of the whole football pyramid . that be what we have to stop and what we have to act on . in very simple figure , 25 club — not just the 20 club in the premier league , but the other five that be in and out of it on a regular basis — get 92 % of the distribute resource within football . the other club in the EFL get 8 % . that simply be not sustainable , and we have see that gap grow and grow over the year . it be not just a static problem ; it be an increase problem that undermine the whole of the football pyramid . do the Bill , as it stand , deal with that fundamental challenge ? the process for a review of football finance be far too bureaucratic . why not give the regulator the up - front power to come to a decision about the distribution of football ' s resource that make individual club sustainable , and competition within and between the league sustainable ? that be a simple remit . let they get on with it , rather than go through this process right the way through to a backstop , know that the league have already have a chance to reach an agreement which they have signally fail to do . the Premier League never make a single offer right through the process from the very beginning . with the parachute payment exclude from the backstop , the Minister risk destroy his own Bill . if the Bill remain as it stand , we will not achieve a sensible and appropriate redistribution of revenue . I think that have be say right across the House and we simply have to change it . I be happy to table an amendment in Committee . I hope the Minister might think about how the Government might accept such an amendment , because it will be need to strengthen the Bill . be the distribution of resource simply a matter for the EFL and the Premier League , or do the fan , player and grassroot not have a view ? should there not be a wide process , at least a consultation , so that the regulator have the up - front power and also consult those group in reach a final conclusion ? it be just strange that something that begin with a fan - lead review do not mention fan in that very important part . I welcome the general approach of the licensing system . as have be point out , we have have too many bad owner and director in football , and we still have some around . I be very interested in what the hon . Gentleman say . there be some very important point regard redistribution , but there be also a very important point about the competent management of football club . the Derby County situation be an example , because the owner have £ 400 million in clear fund when the club be buy . what happen to Derby be a result of how badly it be manage after the initial test . that be a real challenge for this Bill . my understanding be that it will be a test of the licensing system . it be about ensure sustainability , and not just when an owner come along and say they want to buy a club . they need to show that they can actually sustain that ownership go forward . that be the difference between the current rule and the rule that be be propose , which we can test far in Committee . can the regulator really regulate sovereign wealth fund that own club ? I have ask the Minister about that before , and it be something else that we have to look at , because it be a challenge to the system . I welcome the fact that fan will have a veto over their club change its colour or name , but there be nothing in the Bill that say that fan have to be consult about a change of ground . the regulator have to approve it , but there be no right for fan to be consult . we need to have a look at that . I come back to my own club , Sheffield Wednesday — I have mention they once , and I will mention they again . they welcome the proposal and the EFL ' s approach to the review , and they recognise the need for a change in the distribution of resource . I be not sure that the owner will be that enthusiastic about the change to require he to consult the fan properly . many owner be like that — they want to go through the motion . be they really go to engage in a meaningful way ? that will be a real challenge for the regulator at a number of club . I understand why the form of consultation be not specify , but it will still be a challenge go forward and we need to keep an eye on it . finally , I come back to the FA cup . the Minister say it be not our job to get involve in football competition , but the fan - lead review be trigger by some club want to change the competition they play in by go to the european super league . that involve a handful of rich club decide that they could be well off there . we now have a handful of rich club decide that european game be more important than FA cup replay — that be what be happen . when Arsenal win the FA cup in 1979 , they have five replay , four of which be against Sheffield Wednesday in one round . I remember it all these year later , because it be a great achievement . three of those replay be at the old Filbert Street ground . we remember those thing as football fan , and we should not take they away from the game . I say to the Minister that one of the requirement of the regulator be to ensure that the heritage of english football be safeguard . will the regulator have the power to do that under the Bill ' s rule , and be the FA cup and its replay not part of the heritage ? it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who have do much work on this issue , and to follow the wonderful speech early from my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , who have do such fantastic work on the important fan - lead review . it build on work do over many year by member and Committees of this House . when I be a new MP , I take part in the 2011 football governance review undertake by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which be chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , and this issue have be a recur theme of interest for the House . the reason be that when club get into distress , it become evident very quickly that the competition ' s primary interest be protect the competition , not individual club . when a club go into administration , it can be too late to solve the problem . the action of the league be to protect the integrity of the competition and to complete the season , rather than to save the individual club . because the league be effectively govern by the collective view of the chair of those club , they be often not very sympathetic when one of their own get into trouble , particularly if they think the club have get into financial trouble because they have be overspend or , as the league would see it , cheat in some way . as we see with Bolton and Bury — Bury fail financially and be expel from the league , and Bolton very nearly be — and as we have see with club like Derby , have there be an intervention and have it be make clear that the club be already play and trade in breach of league rule , as they stand , the situation could have be avoid . there could have be an early intervention , rather than wait until the last minute when nothing more could be do . it be in response to those concern that the fan - lead review be trigger and this Bill have come forward today . we have see numerous case of bad ownership . Massimo Cellino acquire Leeds United a few year ago , and the football league do not think he be a fit and proper person , which demonstrate that there be no fit and proper person test . if a person be qualified to be a company director in the UK , they have as much right to be a director of a football club as any other entity , and he defeat the football league in the court . we desperately need a test in which somebody could stand up and say , " we be not convince by this person ' s track record . they can not own the club . " Coventry City be own by an investment fund at one point , and nobody know who the investor be . Leeds United be own by somebody we do not know , and Sheffield Wednesday be almost buy by somebody who do not exist . it be the wild west , and the Bill seek to address this by have a regulator that be require to license club and have the power to say to a potential owner , as Ofcom do to broadcaster when it be not happy with how they execute their licence , " we be not convinced that you have meet the test , so you can ' t be the owner of this club , " or , " you must demonstrate and prove who you be if you be invest in this club . and we must have a robust business plan that demonstrate that you can run the club sustainably , meet its requirement for this season and future season . " that do not require the regulator to invent new rule for football . it simply require an independent body to enforce the competition rule that already exist . if we have that transparency and that ability to tackle rogue owner , many of the game ' s problem would be resolve . I do not believe that this form of effective regulation will deter people from invest in english football . if anything , it will encourage they . if someone be look to buy a club in the championship or league one , with the hope of invest in that club and get it into the premier league , have proper governance and enforcement of the rule will attract well owner into english football , which will be good for everyone . I seek the Minister ' s advice on a few specific point . as I say to the Secretary of State , the Bill ' s structure be very interesting . the primary purpose of the regulator be to ensure sustainability , alongside which it have three objective to consider : soundness , resilience and heritage . in make a determination , the regulator should always act in a way that be sustainable and that support at least one of the three objective . this raise a question where , say , a club do not own its own ground . the ground might be own by a private third - party entity that be seek to push up the rent by an extortionate amount that the club can not afford to pay , so it have to move to a new ground . the fan might be against the move , and the heritage test might say that the club should not move , but the soundness and resilience test would say that , no , the club should move . the Secretary of State say early that the regulator could set aside heritage concern and make that decision . the regulator need to establish some guideline and principle that it will follow in make such decision , so that there be proper consideration and so that it do not always defer to the financial case but consider the other point in the round . it be important that the test for director be subjective and that the regulator can say when it be not satisfied , rather than the test simply be a tick - box exercise in which people may own a club if they can demonstrate that they do not have live conviction for particular offence . the regulator should have a robust power to say no . the licensing condition say that a club have to produce a corporate governance report , and the Companies Act 2006 set out the sort of criterion that a company have to include in its report . and the Bill ' s explanatory note say that a corporate governance report should cover " the nature , constitution or function of different part ( ' organ ' ) of the club ; the manner in which those part conduct themselves ; the requirement impose upon they ; and the relationship between they . " that would exclude the player and any relationship , responsibility or obligation that the club have to they . I agree with Ministers that the regulator should not be write welfare standard and policy for football , but it could act as a guardian in make sure they be be properly enforce . it could use its investigatory power , if it feel that there be ground to investigate , to make sure that welfare standard be be properly maintain . this be important because where this idea have fail in football and other sport in the past , it have be because of the power structure within a sporting organisation , whereby the coach and team doctor often have huge influence over the athlete and it be difficult for people to know where they can safely blow the whistle . a backstop guardian , through the regulator , on welfare standard would be totally consistent with the requirement on the club to produce a corporate governance statement to the regulator every year . I urge the Minister to consider that . rise — order . so as to accommodate everybody , I be go to have to reduce the time limit , after the next speaker , to six minute . I call Charlotte Nichols . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . although Warrington be know primarily as a rugby league town , we also have many thousand of football fan : those of our nearby premier league club , Everton , Liverpool , Manchester City and Manchester United ; those of our fantastic non - league club , Warrington Rylands and Warrington Town ; and those involve in our vibrant and diverse grassroot , amateur and Sunday league scene . across the board , there be deep concern that the beautiful game be become ever more distant from the community it should be root in ; and that decision making be make in the vested interest of the big club with the most resource , and be not about fairness and strengthen the sport right through the football pyramid . there be the obvious indicator of that : extortionate price of season ticket and replica kit ; and a lack of rigour in fit and proper person test for director and owner . even before this weekend ' s controversy , I have hear from many constituent : about how the use of VAR be kill the game ; that the decision to abolish replay after the first round of the FA cup will mean few moment of magic like those we see at Marine AFC versus Tottenham , will make it less financially viable for small club to participate , and risk undermine the FA cup ' s reputation as the most egalitarian competition in world football ; that there be a concern lack of transparency about point deduction decision — something that I have receive much correspondence on from Everton fan in my constituency , but which have also affect a number of other club in recent year ; and , of course , about the disaster that be the propose european super league . in whose interest be those decision be make ? it be certainly not those of the fan . I therefore welcome the establishment of the independent football regulator , although there be some area I think it can be strengthen through , which I will address . first , I want to see a regulatory structure that not only act in the interest of supporter and protect their club , but acknowledge and prioritise the role of player and staff at the club . when we think about footballer and their working practice , it be easy to think about some of the huge salary and transfer fee in the premier league , but most player be not on anything like that kind of money and can be in very precarious and short - live employment . career - end injury that take place on the pitch or illness that leave they unable to compete can leave they cut completely adrift , and in many case without some of the skill and qualification they need to find alternative employment easily because they invest everything into a footballing future that do not pan out . just as football be nothing without its fan , it be nothing without its player either . the Professional Footballers ' Association have point out that nowhere in the Bill , as draft , be there any reference to player , and that that be a significant and serious omission , as they be the primary employee of the industry . there be potential direct impact on they from decision take by the IFR , with no mechanism for consultation with they . there be no mention in the IFR ' s regulatory principle of the need for the IFR ' s decision make to recognise exist and successful mechanism that have be develop to encourage co - operation between stakeholder , include the Professional Football Negotiating and Consultative Committee — a crucial backstop that have be effective in ensure that substantive change to player contract and condition can not be make unilaterally . that be a straightforward thing to fix , and do so would strengthen the Bill and ensure that there be no unintended consequence of its implementation . the Bill should acknowledge the existence and validity of these non - IFR mechanism within the new regulatory ecosystem and formalise the responsibility of the IFR to work in a way that recognise they . secondly — and vitally — the Bill currently give the IFR only partial oversight of financial sustainability , with no authority or oversight of profit and sustainability rule . the IFR should therefore have full authority for financial sustainability , include the oversight of profit and financial sustainability rule , in line with the recommendation of the fan - lead review . this should include : full authority in apply sanction ; publish guideline on how sanction will be apply ; a guide principle that sanction do not unfairly impact fan but instead target club ownership , leadership , and management ; and full consideration and involvement of fan representation as part of any sanction process . hopefully , this would help to prevent the scene that we have see at Everton this season , which have cause real distress to many fan in my constituency and in the wide region , and which have also mean that I have not have a moment ' s peace since from my Everton - support family member . as I say in open my remark , we be a town that have much to be proud about with our football club — something that the brilliant Warrington Football Podcast do so much to highlight with " More than just a Rugby Town ! " Warrington Town have just secure their high ever league finish in the club ' s history in the national league north , while fan be have to fundraise to make the costly improvement to meet onerous fa ground grade criterion to allow they to continue play at this level . that do not feel right when we see how much money there be swirl around the game at club just a few mile up the road . the Premier League ' s domestic tv deal alone be worth over £ 6 . 5 billion , and it be a shame that the recommendation of a transfer levy from the fan - lead review have not be take up . the well redistribution of some of these fund throughout the rest of the football pyramid be crucial for the financial sustainability of the wide game . Warrington Rylands have make it into the northern premier league play - off this weekend , after a successful few year , include lift the fa vase at Wembley , and have just launch their first deaf football team , make the game ever more accessible to more player and fan ; and woman ' s football in Warrington be come on enormously . there be plenty to be optimistic about for the future , but we know that we need a regulatory framework for the game that put more power and resource into the hand of supporter and club , see a fairer distribution of wealth across the game , and increase sustainability , transparency and accountability to get there . I hope that the Government will commit to a constructive cross - party engagement as the Bill make its way through the House and on to the statute book . I declare an interest as a Norwich City supporter and a King ' s Lynn Town FC fan . as have be mention , it be fitting that on St George ' s Day we be talk about our national game , which be love by million of people in our country . as we have hear , the premier league be also the most watch league in the world , and last year the EFL have the high attendance for more than 70 year , with over 21 million supporter pass through turnstile , so football be a great success story . it be in that context that we consider the Bill and the proposal to create a new regulatory structure for the game . as the explanatory note set out , football be " previously not regulate by statutory provision " and the measure be " unique " and " unprecedented " . my first point be the one that I make a year ago when the Government publish their response : we need to ensure that this be a truly proportionate regime and be mindful of the success of the game . that mean have a light - touch regulator , which Ministers have commit themselves to . the Government response set out that the regulator would operate an advocacy - first approach to regulation , mean that it would use constructive engagement rather than formal intervention wherever possible . however , that could be well reflect on the face of the Bill in the objective and duty of the new regulator , otherwise the risk of mission creep be more likely to materialise . we have hear a number of contribution already this afternoon in which the regulator be be actively encourage to expand its scope even before it have be set up . I support the objective of financial soundness and resilience , as well as safeguard the heritage of football — the ground , the crest , the shirt colour and the name of a club be all part of its dna . incidentally , Norwich City can boast the old song in world football : " on the Ball , City . " I will not sing it . football be competitive — it be about promotion , play - off and passion — so the regulator must also understand the essence of the game and not reduce it to a dry , technical analysis of profit and loss , and impose a banking - style straitjacket on club . as a member of the Regulatory Reform Group — I see the chairman , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , enter the Chamber as I speak — I welcome the principle set out in clause 8 . however , they can certainly be strengthen to deliver that light - touch regime that be so important . the scale of the task that we will be ask the regulator to undertake will be considerable . it will have to review detailed business plan of 116 club and reach agreement on they . in addition to the mandatory licence condition , the regulator can impose discretionary requirement on any or all of those club . such requirement would have to be bespoke , and they would then have to be monitor . clearly , that come at a cost , which have not really be discuss in the debate so far . the impact assessment estimate that the new regime could cost £ 132 million over 10 year . admittedly , there be a lot of uncertainty , because we do not know precisely what condition the regulator will put in place . that be money spend by club on football that in future will be spend on the cost of regulation . the national league be not the only one that have warn about the risk of the burden on small club . on licensing , the regulator must avoid duplicate exist requirement and ensure that it adopt a proportionate approach to the levy . clearly , a key driver of the legislation be money and how revenue be distribute through the pyramid that be so essential to the health of the game . this have be agree on a voluntary basis to date , and it would be well if football come forward with its own solution . however , if that do not happen , there be part 6 of the Bill , which set out the backstop mechanism . either the Premier League or the EFL can trigger it , and if mediation do not work , a committee of expert draw from the regulator ' s panel will consider final proposal from both . I have to confess to find the decision process curious at that point , as rather than look at each proposal and then adjudicate and determine what be the good overall approach , which could be between the two proposal put forward , the regulator can only opt for one of they . in any negotiation , if both side feel a bit disappointed with the deal reach , it be likely to be fair . in this scenario , however , only one side will win , so I ask the Minister : why create an expert panel and a regulator if they be not able to apply their own judgment ? give the importance of that provision , I hope the Minister will outline the Government ' s thinking . what consideration have be give to how that could be game , and will he look again at those provision as the Bill go forward ? on revenue , I will briefly focus on parachute payment , which be important element in enable club promote to invest and , yes , to take calculated risk so that they can compete . if parachute payment be remove , club like Norwich City that be run sustainably and can get promote — I be optimistic for the play - off this year — would not have the confidence to invest , know that if they go down this path and get relegate , there would be no smoothing of their income . I therefore support the approach in clause 55 . finally , I return to where we begin , with the fan - lead review . during covid , club be not able to let fan in , and King ' s Lynn Town and other have to take sport survival loan — £ 13 million of they be issue — and their repayment threaten the viability of some club . as we look at financial resilience , I encourage the Minister to consider allow club to convert , say , up to 49 % of the loan they have take out and give they to supporter ' trust as share . that would create a legacy of community ownership , which would be very worthwhile and would reduce the burden on club . to conclude , football be an important part of our national character , and as the Bill proceed it be essential that the regulator work with the game , the club and the league to ensure that football continue to flourish . I start by place on record my congratulation on the success of my local club , Stockport County football club , in its elevation to league one . on top of that , it have top the table in league two . I use this opportunity — shamelessly , one might argue — to encourage member on both side of the House to sign my early - day motion celebrate the success of Stockport County football club in recent month ? this be the first EFL title that Stockport County have win since 1967 , and it be an important occasion for I as the MP who represent the club in the House of Commons . before I go into the main point of my speech , I join other member on both side in thank the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for the work she have do , as well as the member of the Select Committee and the Minister , who have return to his place . I have do some work with he on grassroots cricket , and I know he take time to engage with Opposition mp and mps from his own party . he have a long - stand record of work hard on this issue , so I want to place those word on the record . Premier league team need to pay a fair share of the revenue to ensure that all fan can continue to enjoy the sport of football . club like Stockport County football club in my constituency make a valuable contribution to the life of supporter and countless other in the local community . however , as many have highlight , the game ' s fractured governance model and the inequitable distribution of finance be increasingly put that risk . Stockport County football club , and many other club , be an important part of England and Britain ' s sporting culture , and we must do a lot more to ensure that the model be sustainable . currently , english football be nowhere near meet its objective , with EFL club lose £ 471 million during the 2022 - 23 season . with the shortfall have to be meet by club owner , those be serious number . football have fail to take the collective action need to protect club due to the number of vested interest in its governance model . that have be echo by representative across the House . the English Football League want local club to prosper as beacon of community pride in town and city throughout the country . I know that many fan of all football team , and other sporting team , take a lot of pride in and cherish the history and culture of their local team . I be glad that the English Football League welcome the Bill and this parliamentary scrutiny and discussion . this be a good opportunity to reform the football pyramid — a lot of mp have make point about that , so I will not repeat they . labour have long support football reform . our last three manifesto commit to review football governance , give fan a great say in the way their club be run , and call for the Premier League to redistribute more of its television right revenue to the wide game . Labour also support the implementation of an independent regulator , and we urgently need to bring in new law to prevent further club from go bust or be use as plaything for the wealthy . sadly , since 1992 more than 60 club have go into administration . although the Bill be welcome , it be likely to be too little too late for several club that have to witness their structure collapse , with fan leave disappointed and angry . the fan - lead review be publish in 2021 . why have it take the government so long finally to act ? labour welcome the Bill , but several issue need to be address and I be critical of the time it have take the Government to come forward . rise — Order . I make no criticism of the fact that member be use the time make available to they , but we will have to reduce the time limit again I be afraid . after the next speaker it will go down to five minute . may I add to the many thank already offer to the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for the considerable work that have go into this issue ? many other have rightly be mention , but time do not allow I to say anything more . I stand in support of the Bill despite , as my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) say , have come to it with a degree of reluctance . I say that because I stand for the love of the game . this have be a fascinating debate , but in one sense it have be characterise by the many different perspective that people have offer and , with the great respect , they have all be partial perspective . no one person have hold a complete and perfect view of football in this country , or the impact of this regulation , and that be vital . those listen who may be question our right as mps to be talk about the game they love should be reassure that we be just like they — this be a game that we love too . I be a terrible fan and make no claim to stand here as a fan . I have never hold a season ticket in my life , but I do stand here as a player , from my early day at Bangor Juniors — many of my school friend will remember I play then — through to play in the Suffolk League in Sporting 87 football club . I join it when there be about 14 of we fella from across East Anglia kick a ball around , and leave it when there be more than 600 member , many of they youth player , and we have win a couple of Suffolk fair play award . I now play — my colleague might say that be a loose description of the word — on a Friday afternoon for the Dyffryn Conwy Amateurs in Llanrwst . that be a different kind of club . it start for people just to have fun kick a ball around , to work through some of the thing that we pick up during the week , such as issue of mental wellbeing , and for build friendship in the community . I have be very appreciative of that support , in particular the work of Ian in set up the club . it would be remiss of I not to mention that I chair the all - party football club group , and I know that hon . member be sit here wonder how we get on today against the Lobby . well , suffice it to say that at half time it be 3 - 1 . it be a closely fight game , play well , but I think I run out of finger towards the end . congratulation to the Lobby on that one ; we will be back again next time to even the score . the aim of this Bill be worthy , and put the fan ' voice at the heart of football be vital . I grow up in Bangor . in 2019 , I see the club fall from the heady height of 1985 - 86 , when it play in the cup winner ’ cup against Atletico Madrid , to see its Farrar Road ground turn into an Asda supermarket through mismanagement and many other episode . Bangor City Supporters Association form a breakaway club in 2019 . what it state at the time capture the essence of the Bill . it say : " we want fan to reconnect with each other and restore the pride and feeling of be a supporter of our historic club . the new club be a creative and positive solution for an ever - change and precarious situation . we be not disown Bangor City FC or its history , the club be ours , it belong to the fan and local community . ' owner ' will come and go but the people remain . keep the faith . " there be much in there and much more history than I know — I have be away from the area for many year , so I be not familiar with all the step in that journey — but it speak to the concern that people have feel and that constituent have write to I about . I stress that those be constituent of the hon . member for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , but that be my home , and they have write and speak of those concern . importantly , this Bill recognise that community tie , sustainability and ethical governance be right at the heart of thing and be essential . I would argue that those thing resonate with the very conservative value of heritage , community and sustainability . have describe a rather unfortunate episode in the history of Bangor City , I can contrast that with the lesson I have learn from watch Llandudno football club , the Seasiders , where the work of Doz and her family over the year have make sure that the club be viable . Rod , Dave Guinn and other on the board at present be seek to take the club forward . this Bill make the point again , as my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford say , that structure be important . we have to put in place these structure so that the money can flow . I argue that the Bill send a signal that the era of opaque and unchecked ownership be over . football be no long just a plaything for those who see it only as an investment class . it be important that the backstop be in place . it be essential that the potential to fine club be retain , so that the regulator have some tooth . I question the scalability and applicability that be mention in the Bill . I feel a chill when I hear some speak with an ambition to interfere with matter of football and apply preferred political agenda or even create a game in which everyone win a prize . that be not the sport I know or love . I urge the Minister to give time at late stage to clarify some of the point be make and to make sure that while the Bill will deal with bad actor and bad management , it will not remove element of bad luck . first , I welcome the Bill . as other have encapsulate , our football club in this country be unique . they be institution at the heart of their community with long , long history that far outlast whoever might be the chairman , the manager or the player in any period of time . that be why this regulator be overdue , and I very much welcome the work do to get we to this stage . the regulator have an unenviable job . the number of thing that people want to see address in football be huge . I be sure there will be all kind of call for the regulator to take action on thing that fall outside its remit . the Secretary of State be at pain to clarify the regulator ' s limited role around football . it be not about a new organisation run football ; it be about ensure that football be sustainable in the future . as my colleague have say , this legislation have be introduce because football have be unable to break the logjam itself . it will be important for some of the remain uncertainty in the Bill to be work out in Committee . football be a business — generally a privately own one — but it be also an institution . as we have hear from many speaker , one of the main reason for that be that the fan remain . however , it be also a different kind of institution because of the reward available to those who be successful and the appalling failure that happen when gamble go wrong . many of we remember the Aston Villa versus Derby County play - off final . it be widely believe that whoever lose that game would end up go bust . Derby County , as we know , go into administration and be now in league one , while Aston Villa be fourth in the premier league with untold rich . for the sake of 90 minute , those be the difference on the line that day . we can not have a situation where one person ' s gamble lead to that kind of success and another person ' s gamble lead to the club almost cease to exist . we need the regulator to balance an individual businessperson have a go and the endangering of the cultural institution that be a football club , so that it be do not mean disaster if those have a go fail . the success of the Premier League have be speak about many time . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be right to say that the championship be the fifth big division in Europe . in addition , league one be the tenth most - watch league anywhere in Europe . right down the pyramid , this country have a thing of unique strength . my club , Chesterfield , which be in the fifth tier , attract 10 , 000 fan on Saturday . its history be informative . Darren Brown almost bankrupt the club and end up in jail because of the way he conduct himself as the head of Chesterfield . the fan have to step forward and save the club back in 2001 . then , we have Dave Allen as chairman . he get the new ground build and get the club to the edge of league one , but find that , with every further league the club go into , the loss grow . it be a unique business in that loss grow as the club move from league two to league one , and from league one to the championship , so there be a perverse incentive . until the club reach the promise land of the premier league , the loss grow all the time . look at some of the loss that championship club be experience — it be just appalling . Dave Allen lose interest and the club be on the verge of bankruptcy again . the Chesterfield FC Community Trust step forward , and the passion , commitment and professionalism that the trust board member have introduce get Chesterfield back into the football league , now with the help of the Kirk brother — local fan who have their heart in the club . the club be look much bright . the truth be that almost all our premier league club be own not by people with that kind of history and passion for the club , but by foreign - own institution and foreign government who do not have the same understanding of and commitment to what football be about . I welcome the fact that the Government have introduce the Bill , which enjoy cross - party support . now , we need to ensure that it work . I congratulate the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , and pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for her tremendous work in this area . football be a vital part of our community , bring people together in support of their much - love club . since 1883 , Darlington have be home to Darlington football club , know as the Quakers or simply Darlo . it be the team that Arthur Wharton , the world ' s first black professional footballer , play for . I declare my interest as an individual shareholder of that fan - own club . as a fan - own club , Darlington ' s profit be reinveste back into the club . follow the financial collapse of the club some year ago , it be build back and have ambitious plan to secure its own ground to far sustain its financial future — an ambition that I be proud to support . a club with close link to the community have the potential to develop deep , long - term partnership . community - own club offer great protection and transparency within their constitution , which appeal to partner , funder , and sponsor . give people the chance to have a stake in their club can increase their connection with it . People can share the responsibility of sustain their club , unlock more volunteer and participation . if supporter know that the money they spend will be reinveste in the club , they be more likely to spend and donate more . I welcome that , in the face of the gap get big , the Bill seek to overhaul the football finance system to protect and promote the sustainability of english football for fan and community like those in Darlington . I want to put on the record my thank to David Johnston at Darlington football club for his engagement on the Bill in recent week . the Bill put fan back at the heart of the game . with no fan , there be no game . sadly , Darlington football club have suffer in the past , and its future have hang in the balance , cause uncertainty for the club and the community at large . that be why I applaud the strong test in the Bill for prospective owner . finding from the report by Fair Game show the disparity in the distribution of tv income . for every £ 1 , 000 in the broadcast deal , a premier league club get £ 882 . 42 , whereas Darlington FC , as a national league north club , get merely 15p . that be simply not right , and focus on protect the big , wealthy club as oppose to the small one that be so integral to their community . I must recognise the wonderful work of the Darlington FC Foundation , which do so much good in my constituency . I take this opportunity to thank the Government for their support of sport more generally in the community . Darlington have receive over £ 900 , 000 for a new pitch , run track and change pavilion at Eastbourne sport complex . firthmoor community centre receive over £ 90 , 000 for its multi - use game area , and there have be much need investment in football across Darlington . all that help inspire people and ensure that child can stay fit and healthy . yet again , it be an example of the Government invest in football in our community for people of all age and ability . finally , the Bill recognise that major change must occur to keep our grassroots sport alive . I welcome the Bill , which be much need for our fantastic football club to ensure that fan be put first and our club can not only survive but thrive . for those who have oppose the Bill , particularly the Premier League , it be worth point out a few fact that the English Football League have provide . in the four year that the deal between the Premier League and the Football League be negotiate , wage in the premier league have go up by £ 800 million — from £ 3 . 2 billion to £ 4 billion . in 2022 - 23 , premier league club spend £ 2 . 8 billion on player transfer , and in 2024 the premier league spend £ 410 million on agent ’ fee . anyone who say that the Bill will damage the viability of the premier league need to look at those figure . we must remind ourselves of why we be here . as everyone have , I rightly pay tribute to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , but the argument from the fan go back many year . I know that because I write labour ' s manifesto on football back in 2015 , and we speak powerfully about the need for fan to have a say . fan be of the community where the club be situate ; they have sustain those club through generation , and they be an early warning system when there be problem in those club . one of my criticism of the Bill be that it do not say enough about consult and empower fan . it could go far in those area , the legislation on the regulator be defective in two way . it do not give the regulator step - in right to settle a deal between the various organisation in the football pyramid . more importantly , the regulator be not empower to deal with the issue of parachute payment . we be tell that that issue be go to be deal with through the licensing system ; I would like to know how that be go to work , because that be about individual club . the impact of club have parachute payment be that other club be entice to try to compete with they financially . be we go to say to club that be receive parachute payment under the licensing scheme , " you can ' t spend that money " ? that just do not make sense , so how will we be able to deal with this inequality of arm for club with parachute payment under the licensing system ? we be also tell that through the licensing system , club that be overspend and perhaps overstretch themselves will be deal with by the regulator . that seem to put the disparity in wealth and resource into legislation — actually to legislate to keep those club in abeyance , way behind the club that receive parachute payment . we know that parachute payment be the drive force behind many of the problem that exist in the financial arrangement of many club in the football league . that have lead to difficulty , so how can we possibly have a regulator to deal with the issue of football finance that do not have the right to step in and deal with parachute payment ? that have to change — it can not be accept . on the issue of asset , Charlton Athletic do not own their ground , and they do not own their training ground . the training ground be in my constituency — it be metropolitan open land . the former owner have keep the right to , and ownership of , the stadium and the training ground . I can only assume that he have do so out of spite , or perhaps he think there be go to be a payday down the road where he can develop those asset . as I say , the training ground in my constituency be metropolitan open land ; he will develop that over my dead body . perhaps he be go to arrange that — I do not know — but the stadium will not be give planning permission for development by the local authority in any case , so I think the former owner need to think again . he should deal with Charlton even - handedly and hand over the right to that ground . lastly , as other member have say , there be the issue of sovereign wealth fund own football club . the regulator must be give power to get to grip with that , because the current situation be unacceptable . I support the Bill , and I hope I will get on the Bill Committee . this be a unique regulatory Bill , in that it regulate the preservation of football club — in my view , it be regulation to save something , rather than regulation regard competition . it be illogical to suggest that anything could level the competition between bury football club and Manchester City , in term of their asset or in term of anything else . when Bury FC be reject from the EFL , at the heart of the matter be the serious concern that Jonathan Taylor KC raise in his review : the owner and director role that be be enforce by the football league , especially in relation to league one and two . in that report , he say that " there be no doubt that the EFL apply the oad " — owner and director — " test properly in relation to Mr Day and Mr Dale " , the two owner of bury football club . " the question be whether the test as currently write be fit for purpose . in particular , it only look at a narrow list of objective criterion , and do not take into account various other factor that speak to whether a new owner or director be a fit and proper person to own / run a member Club . " when Mr Dale buy the club for £ 1 , the fact that he have numerous previous fail business be not take into account . the owner and director test do not require that Mr Dale provide proof of fund — proof that he be able to sustainably run the football club — prior to purchase . that be utterly ludicrous and something that have to change , so I hope the Minister will touch on how the Bill will ensure that the regulation and the fit and proper person test be robust enough to keep people such as Steve Dale out of the ownership of club . I find myself ask time and again how a regulator will be able to intervene in the running of football club , unless they have a huge amount of support staff . I accept fully that a business plan be put in place , but business plan can change . the situation at Bury be virtually criminal . on the car park at Gigg Lane , which be build in 1885 , the previous owner sell 250 car parking space in a Ponzi scheme , some of they to poor bury fan . these be essentially sell as a financial product that people would get a return from . he be sell these thing to people around the world , and when the money run out , the whole thing go boom . nobody do anything about that . that be a unique situation , but would the regulator have the power , the understanding and the knowledge to be able to intervene in act of complete criminality such as that ? I hope that it will , and I would very much welcome the Minister ' s response to that . speak of my experience of Bury Football Club , I be at Ramsbottom United on Saturday and 2 , 000 people be there . it be a North West Counties Premier League match between Ramsbottom and Bury . bury bring the good part of 2 , 000 people with they give Ramsbottom United 25 % of their total annual income . when we look at what it be about club that matter — the history , the heritage and everything else that we have talk about — we have to get to the heart of how club be run . after somebody get through the fit and proper person test , after the first business plan fail and after the ambition come in , how be the regulator go to be able to control that unless they have a massive amount of staff ? in my view , football club throughout the pyramid system be incredibly badly run . Most of they be subsidise by multimillionaire , and in any other way , shape or form they would not be business ; they would be insolvent . they exist off largesse . we have see some really great example of club come through the football pyramid that be completely and utterly reliant on one person ' s million . if that one person ' s million disappear , there be no football club . how do we regulate that in a way that allow for sustainability ? Bury be badly run . it be badly let down by the EFL . I think and hope that if this legislation have be in place when the club be expel from the league in 2019 , it would have put the club in a well place . I will put a question mark after that , and I look forward to hear my right hon . friend the Minister ' s comment . first , I place on the record my thank to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , who have always listen to supporter , and will be sorely miss . much of this legislation come from the effort of the fan - lead review . I also pay tribute to the FSA , to Kev Miles and to the Minister , who bear the scar of get we here today . this legislation have come about because football supporter have lose trust and faith in the current custodian of the game to protect football for the people who really matter , whose loyalty be often take for grant . football supporter , along with the working - class community the game originate from , be too often now an afterthought , if indeed they be consider at all . at the bottom of the pyramid , there be a shocking , criminal lack of investment in the grassroots game , which should be accessible to all . this be something that the wonderful stalwart campaigner Kenny Saunders do so much to highlight via his Save Grassroots Football campaign . at the top of the pyramid , club continue to price out working - class supporter and the next generation of their own support . this pose an existential threat to the very strand of the game that give English football its authenticity , passion and worldwide popularity . football must therefore be very careful not to kill off the golden goose that provide these rich — the loyal supporter . it be worry to see significant price rise again for next season at many club amid the cost of living crisis . some lesson be not be learn , and the club must take heed . the Premier League have do much good for the beautiful game , with stadium now a world away from those in the ' 80 and early , where in some case horrific tragedy take place . english football be now see as world - lead , and the Premier League ' s community work be beyond reproach and actually world - leading . I have work with the team at the Premier League on the issue of tragedy chanting , and I would like to put on record my thank to Richard Masters and his team , the LFC Foundation , the Manchester United Foundation , my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) and Joe Blott represent the FSA . however , despite its perceive success , the Premier League be powerless to prevent the attempt european super league breakaway in April 2021 , with six of the 12 club come from its rank . the action of those six club that attempt to end football as we know it and place the entire football pyramid in peril in their rush to form a european super league show exactly why we need a football regulator to protect the interest of all . shamefully , my own club , Liverpool , be part of that , but the collective fightback from supporter halt it in its track . from the flame of that chaos , Liverpool fan then create what we hope be an exemplar model of fan engagement and influence to prevent club from make the same mistake again . I be delighted that element of this structure appear in the Bill : that be a tribute to the action of Spirit of Shankly and the associate fan group , and to the engagement of the UK - base element of Liverpool ' s board . Fan engagement and influence must be in the heart of the Bill , because fan be the true custodian of the game , not the rogue club owner who will destroy the fertile ground that nurture its root . that be surely more of a commercial threat than a Bill that seek , as the Premier League admit , only to embed normal business practice within the game . a good footballe organisation should not fear regulation ; rather , it should welcome it . the Bill currently give the independent football regulator only partial oversight of financial sustainability , with no authority or oversight in respect of profit and sustainability rule . football supporter be rightly demand a transparent , proportionate , fair and timely system . the chaos and confusion cause by the Premier League ' s handling of PSR have prove that it have not meet these requirement . many supporter , include Dave Kelly of Everton ' s fan advisory board , be now call for the football regulator to have full authority in relation to financial sustainability , in line with the recommendation of the fan - lead review . they believe , and I share their view , that trust matter . the vast majority of this legislation will , I believe , begin to restore that trust , but it must go far . worryingly , give the importance of fan engagement , it be notable that the word " fan " appear only 16 time in the entire 140 - page Bill . the interest of supporter must be adequately factor into governance and strategic decision making at the high level of the game , and the Bill must reflect that I would like to see independently elect fan representative on the regulator board , the expert panel and the Premier League board . the expertise and experience of supporter must be hardwire into the decision making of the regulator and the Premier League . it be greatly miss , and it need to be add to the Bill in Committee . let we never forget what the great Jock Stein once say , which have resonate through the Chamber today : football without fan be nothing . I welcome the Bill , and thank the whole ministerial team , particularly the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) . their commitment have be fantastic , in respect of the fan - lead review and all the other work that have be do . I would love to say more about that , but time do not permit it . occasionally people ask I whether this job be stressful , and my reply be always the same : it be nowhere near as stressful as 90 minute on the terrace at Roots Hall . although Southend United always give we a thunder performance , it be often not until the second half that they show their full skill and dominance of the game . however , the stress of be a Shrimper have be take to a whole new level in the last two year , which be why I welcome the Bill . for too long , football club like my own — Southend United — have be leave at the mercy of unscrupulous owner who be either unwilling or unable to fulfil their obligation to the club and the fan . for too long , fan have suffer the making of vital decision on their heritage with little or no consultation . for too long , there have be no focus on sustainability and future planning , which have leave many club just one season away from insolvency . while I would normally be completely against the regulation of a successful industry like football , in this case I welcome the proposal for an independent regulator , which be absolutely necessary to put fan back where they belong — at the heart of english football . to date , I have mention the plight of Southend United no few than 11 time in this place . have it not be for the heroic action of those at the club — the chief executive Tom Lawrence , the manager Kevin Maher , the player themselves who have somehow deliver week after week , the fan who clean and repair the stadium so that we secure our health and safety certificate to start the season — we could well have lose 117 year of history . against the instability of that background and the background of an outgoing owner who have be subject to 19 wind - up petition in 25 year , I welcome the strengthen owner and director test . I particularly welcome clause 37 and the fact that the Bill remove any minimum number of bankruptcy event to disqualify a future owner . however , instead of just punish poor owner , I hope that the regulator will have a mechanism to reward the good owner who be make a positive and tangible difference to their club and community . Southend United Community and Educational Trust ' s social value to the city of Southend and south - east Essex community be measure at over £ 10 million a year . it give back and encourage , so if there be a way for that to be reward , that would be a good improvement . Southend United have a remarkable fanbase , so of course I welcome the detail in the Bill about engage more with fan and hear their voice . I would also mention supporter ' trust . almost every club will have a fantastic supporter ’ trust . we have the Shrimpers Trust , ably lead by Paul FitzGerald and James Schooley . I understand why supporter ' trust be not name specifically in the Bill , but it would be nice if there be a way for such trust to be recognise because of all their hard work and the engagement they have have with the ministerial team to make the Bill as good as it be . I hope the regulator will be give the power it require to mediate in all matter between the Premier League , the EFL and the National League , not just financial one . of course , I refer to last week ' s concern news regard the unscrupulous scrapping of FA cup replay . everybody know the magic of the FA cup — every single person hear those word will have a memory . for Southend United , the magic of the FA cup be well show in 1979 , when 31 , 000 spectator cram into Roots Hall to witness their hero take on european champion , Liverpool . to put that into context , more than 11 % of the entire city of Southend be engage on that day . that be why it be so important we preserve the replay . I appreciate the Bill have its sceptic , but I say there be not a moment to lose . let ' s get on with it . let ' s bring this Bill home . I be very pleased to finally be able to speak in today ' s historic debate . a new independent football regulator be an important development , come as a result of dysfunction in the game . I thank those who have work hard to improve how football function , include the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for produce the fan - lead review , the Football Supporters ' Association and Fair Game . I thank Luton Town ' s chief executive , Gary Sweet , for share his view on a number of occasion and , importantly , I thank member of Luton Town Supporters ' Trust and Loyal Luton , who have always be willing to meet I and tell I their view , because ultimately football be about the fan . however , the status quo be fail fan across the country . while the premier league be arguably the most globally popular and commercially successful sporting competition , more than 60 club throughout the English league system have go bust since it be establish in 1992 . the financial power at the top of the english game have distort competition and powered unsustainable business practice as club scramble to be one of the elite 20 club at all cost . we all agree that the future sustainability of the pyramid be heavily reliant on secure a fair financial distribution deal between the Premier League and the pyramid system , not to mention prevent any potential re - emergence of the european super league plan . we also have a multitude of example that demonstrate the owner and director test have not stop dubious owner buy club and run they into the ground . we Lutonians sadly know the ugly side of the beautiful game well than most . back in 2003 , in response to Luton fan want to save their club , the previous Luton Town chairman , John Gurney , disgracefully say : " if they expect I to walk away from Luton with nothing , I ' ll make very sure there ' s nothing to walk away from " . this be from a person who have already recklessly suggest rename the club , push for a merger with Milton Keynes - bind Wimbledon FC and , wait for it , attach a Formula 1 circuit to a new 70 , 000 - seat stadium on stilt . my personal favourite , which do see the light of day , be suggest select the club ' s next manager through " manager idol " , with text cost 50p . that be all in the face of clear and vocal opposition from the fan . thankfully , due to the work of a group of fan create Trust in Luton , include one of its found member , Gary Sweet , who be now Luton Town chief executive , control of the club be wrestle away from that disastrous ownership . however , that be not the last time that fan have to step up to protect the club , as the fan - lead 2020 consortium buy they out from yet further mismanagement after they go into administrative receivership in 2007 . unfortunately , the previous mismanagement lead to a huge 30 - point deduction and ultimately relegation to the national league . while it have not always be plain sailing , success on and off the pitch since have enable Luton Town now to compete at the pinnacle of english football — from non - league to the premier league . how do Luton Town do it ? they ensure that they be a unified club from top to bottom , with a clear vision root in our Luton community . Mr Deputy Speaker , if I may , I will take the opportunity to celebrate a significant part of our Luton football heritage through the period by wish Alison Taylor , the landlady of the Bricklayers Arms , a well - earn and relax retirement at the end of the season after 38 year of service . I fully support the creation of the new independent football regulator to protect and promote the sustainability of english football , and particularly to safeguard the traditional feature that matter most to fan and community . I will put on the record a few initial concern with the functioning of the regulator , as set out in the Bill . first , the regulator will have the backstop power to intervene in the distribution of broadcast revenue between the Premier League and the wide pyramid if need . it be important that we explore that to ensure that the regulator can facilitate a just and fair financial distribution deal , include parachute payment , and include the ability to initiate any regulation . the regulatory principle in clause 8 ( b ) do not make reference to fan or fan group — or indeed player or employee — as group that the regulator should proactively and constructively engage with . when I work for a regulator in the health sector , we directly engage with patient , so why would the regulator not directly engage with fan , who be the beneficiary of football ? I also have reservation about whether the Bill be sufficiently free from any vested interest . further clarity may be need to ensure that a person with a conflict of interest can not be on the expert panel board . the Bill be support by so many of we on both side of the House , and this be a historic moment . the game be not just a business , but one with deep root in the nation ' s identity and community , which be central to our global appeal . I look forward to support the Opposition Front - Bench team in take the Bill forward . we come to the Front - Bench speaker . I be pleased to be here to welcome the Football Governance Bill . football club sit at the heart of community up and down the country . family , friend and neighbour come together to watch game , win or lose . while provide role model as well as infrastructure , football club also inspire the next generation of footballe talent across every town , village and city . at the same time , english football be world lead . english club have fan on every continent , and the player and manager they attract be admire from all corner of the world . that combination of local togetherness and global acclaim be the envy of many . as the shadow Secretary of State set out , the Premier League and its club have contribute billion to the economy and support more than 90 , 000 job . this worldwide success have see big revenue than ever come into the game . but despite that , the financial sustainability of the English football pyramid be at risk . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) member for Luton South just outline , along with my hon . friend the Member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) and many other , too many fan be have their attention force away from the pitch and into the trouble of malicious ownership , mishandle finance and poor management . that could be bury fan , who witness their club be expel from the football league almost five year ago or , more recently , read fan , who share with I their deep concern over the future of their club when I meet they just a few month ago . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , and indeed the hon . member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , for their campaigning work on this issue . there be clearly structural issue in the pyramid that must be address . indeed , the fan - lead review shine a clear light on the issue within the game , and I pay tribute and thank to the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) for all her work . as my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) note , the debate be take place on St George ' s day , so I take the opportunity to wish the whole House a happy St George ' s day . I be supportive of the Bill and the principle of an independent regulator for football , with a strict and focused remit on the financial sustainability of the game and the ability to act with proportionality . labour support give fan a great say in their club , ensure that owner and director be stringently test on their integrity , competence and financial soundness , as my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) speak about . it be also important to prevent any further attempt at a breakaway league , which put financial gain before the all - important principle of competition and qualification base on merit . in preparation for the Bill , I have meet representative from across the industry : from the Premier League and its club , the English Football League , the National League and the fa to the Football Supporters ' Association and supporter group , include the Barnsley FC Supporters Trust . I know how important Barnsley football club be to my town , and I be pleased to watch they at Oakwell just a few week ago . while not everyone agree on every detail of the Bill or with the shape that the regulator will take , there be a lot of agreement that english football offer something world - beat and special that must be protect for year to come . that be what I believe the Bill seek to do , and I look forward to help to shape it with careful scrutiny . the regulator do not address all the issue face football today , nor be it mean to , but some of those issue have understandably be speak about in the debate . for example , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) give a thoughtful speech , and have bring forward a private Member ' s Bill , on unauthorised entry to match . his unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill be a proportionate intervention , design to ensure the safety of fan by create a specific offence for those attempt to enter stadium without a ticket , and it have my support . over the weekend , we all see the news that FA cup replay will be scrap . that have understandably feature in this debate , with a number of member raise their concern . I believe it be the wrong choice , and fan will rightly have question about how decision be make that affect club all the way down the pyramid . the magic of the FA cup be that club from right down the football league , and indeed some non - league club , can compete with those at the very top . at the moment , however , grassroot club across the country be face difficulty , while contribute so much to community , as the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) say . the hon . member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) highlight how important they be to the football pipeline . the club in my Barnsley East constituency — Wombwell Town , Worsbrough Bridge AFC and Wombwell Main — all contribute so much to the community . hundred of young people and adult play there every week , but the latter two face flooding issue at their facility . in the case of Wombwell Main , which I visit a few week ago , flooding be cause multiple game cancellation . that be sadly typical of grassroots football across the country , which provide the foundation for both player and fan . it be right that the regulator be strict in scope , cover the financial sustainability of the top five league , but a big part of that be to give fan a meaningful say in their club . I would therefore like to hear from the Minister on the strength of the measure for fan within the Bill . there have be a lot of rhetoric about how football must be for the fan , but be the Minister confident that the Bill ' s provision will live up to expectation and give fan the voice they deserve ? I welcome the contribution from the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I thank the Committee for its work and the fact that it have agree to hold a pre - appointment hearing with the new chair of the independent regulator once there be a preferred candidate in place . my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) both speak about this issue , and I pay tribute to both of they for all the work in this area , as well as to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) ; I know there have be keen interest in the issue of the so - call backstop power and the ability of the regulator to intervene in the distribution of broadcast revenue throughout the pyramid . that be an unprecedented power and must be carefully craft in order to achieve its aim . can the Minister assure Members across the House that the regulator will be give all the target power it need to secure the sustainability of the pyramid , as per its primary purpose ? give that player and staff at club be often the first to notice that the club be experience financial difficulty , and that their livelihood will be directly impact , it seem odd that they be not mention once in the Bill , as my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) point out . can the Minister explain why that be ? the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) also make some important point on that subject . I ask for a little more detail on some of the work be undertake to ensure that the regulator hit the ground run . for example , what progress have be make on the shadow regulator , and be there any more detail on how the expert panel , which will be responsible for much of the regulator ' s decision making , will be appoint ? my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) and for Manchester , Withington ( Jeff Smith ) bring up the issue of equality , diversity and inclusion in football club . it will be for the regulator to decide what be contain within the corporate governance code of practice , but that be one of the issue that I would expect it to consider . before I conclude , I would like to touch on woman ' s football . there be widespread agreement that place the woman ' s game in scope of the regulator would not be right at this stage . the Carney review reveal a number of press issue in the woman ' s game , include poor pay , professional standard , mental health support and union representation . it be important that we take they seriously . it be crucial that we ensure the financial sustainability of the man ' s game , but that should not result in resource be strip from the woman ' s game . I would therefore welcome an update from the Minister today on what progress have be make on implement the recommendation of the Carney review , and on the Department ' s plan for protect the future of woman ' s football as part of the Bill . to conclude , I thank all those involve in the Bill : my opposite number , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the right hon . member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , the civil servant , the club and , of course , the fan . labour have long commit to review football governance . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to preserve the future of our nation ' s favourite sport . we can and must get it right . I thank all member for their thoughtful and wide - range contribution , and I be grateful for learn about the first black professional footballer , Arthur Wharton , from my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . I be pleased to hear the broad support for what the Government be propose , and I be grateful for it . I be also grateful for the continue engagement with colleague as we have prepare for the Bill . my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State rightly point out the success of english football , and the contribution it make to our economy and the pride of our nation , but it be important to remember why we be here today . my very first meeting when I be appoint as Minister be with fan ’ group . I hear at first hand their experience of when it all go horribly wrong — even to the point of have to boycott their own club for five year , in one instance . the fan feel unheard . we know that club be more than just football club . when they go into administration and be run down , the fan be obviously in despair , but that also have a significant impact on the wide community because they be more than football club ; they be community asset . that be why we commit to the fan - lead review . like everyone else , I want to put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) and to the people who help she , include Kevin Miles from the Football Supporters ' Association . the review be the foundation for the White Paper , and now we have the Bill today . I thank all those who engage with we for all they have do : the fa , the Premier League , the EFL , the National League , the FSA and the Select Committee . I also want to put my particular thank on the record to the official in the Department . I can not tell the House how many hour they have put in ; they have be first rate and I thank they a great deal . I want to focus , in the short time I have leave , on some of the point that be raise . many issue be raise and I will try to get through as many of they as I can , but I be happy to engage with colleague afterwards if need be . when construct the Bill , we have be careful to ensure that it be carefully draft , consider and proportionate , and that it provide an advocacy - first approach ; and that there be focus on the club where it be need , and we make sure it be proportionate to their place in the pyramid . a number of member raise the owner and director test . too many club have be bring to the brink with unsuitable owner take over , strip they of asset and refuse to adequately fund they . that be why we be bring in strong statutory test to help prevent unsuitable owner at the point of entry , before they can do harm to club . prospective individual will be prohibit from become club owner unless the regulator have determine beforehand that they be suitable . they must pass a fitness test , which mean : they have the requisite honesty and integrity ; be financially sound ; have pass the source of wealth test to ensure that their wealth be not connect to illicit finance ; and have a plan and the resource to run the club . even once an owner be in place at a club , the regulator will still be able to make sure that they continue to be suitable . if it have ground for concern about their suitability , it can test they on their fitness and their source of wealth . if it find they unsuitable , they will have to sell the club . to prevent further harm be do to the club during the sale process , the regulator will have the power to limit the owner ' s involvement in the club , and if the unsuitable owner ultimately refuse to sell the club , the regulator will have the power to step in and force a sale as a last resort . strengthened test and robust power to remove unsuitable owner will mean that fan have the suitable owner that they deserve . hon . member ask about what would happen if a club ' s owner be force to divest . let I be clear : we hope that such a circumstance will be incredibly rare . the regulator ' s objective be to promote club ' financial sustainability , and it will introduce test on governance and financial oversight , which will greatly reduce the likelihood of financial distress and make football more resilient in the long term . for example , we will ensure that the regulator be able to look at a liquidity buffer , which could provide the club with time to seek a new owner , and the regulator will have the power to test an incumbent owner where it have ground for concern about their suitability . almost every Member mention the backstop , and I repeat that we want football to come up with a deal itself ; it be the good option , and this delay serve no one . we need to remember that we be talk about a commercial arrangement — business give business money — which be why we believe it be good that football do it , but we recognise that there be no deal at the moment . that be precisely why we have put provision in the Bill for a backstop — something to fall back on — so that they can consider the relevant revenue . do my right hon . friend agree with my interpretation of clause 55 , which be that international broadcast income be include in the relevant revenue for redistribution ? that be currently not the case for solidarity payment . if it be the case , have this issue come up in his discussion with the Premier League ? my hon . friend raise an interesting point . I have have dozen of meeting with the Premier League , but as far as I can recall , I do not think that it have raise carve out international broadcast revenue in those discussion , which have always revolve around the net medium revenue and the aggregate revenue receive by both the Premier League and the EFL ; she raise a very interesting point . some say that the regulator should be able to trigger the backstop right at the outset . frankly , that would just be a frontstop , and it may hinder a deal be strike by football itself , but the Bill provide that if there be no deal because one have not be offer or one side can not sign it because it be not a good deal , that side can ask the regulator to trigger the backstop . member have mention parachute payment , and I be always happy to meet colleague to discuss and look at that matter far , particularly in Committee . I be also happy to organise a briefing , if that would be helpful , because it be quite a complex issue . parachute payment play an important role in the sustainability of the system by soften the financial blow of relegation , and remove they could have adverse effect . look at Bradford City : when they be relegate from the premier league in 2001 , there be no parachute payment , and the follow season they go into administration . will the Minister give way ? I literally have two minute . I have offer a briefing , and we can have this debate afterwards . we realise that parachute payment can have a distortive impact , particularly in the championship , which be why the regulator have the power to address any structural or systemic issue through its licensing regime . any distortion create by parachute payment also have the potential to be address through distribution to non - parachute payment club ; that be exactly what the regulator will be able to look at as part of the backstop . lead expert have advise we to keep the backstop targeted and simple , which we have do , and to design it so that it may never need to be trigger , which we have also do . as such , we do not think it be appropriate to include parachute payment in the backstop , nor we do think it be necessary to do so , as we have ensure that the regulator will be able to address any distortive effect that they cause via the licensing regime . I be run out of time to answer more question . this be a landmark Bill for football . it have be carefully design to celebrate the sport ' s success and encourage investment , but it be about provide stability for club , sustain the pyramid and put fan at the heart . we recognise that there be many success , but it be important that we tackle the issue . the IFR will be focus on football , focus on financial stability and focus on fan . I close by play on the iconic word of 1966 . too many fan have see their club on the brink , and they think it ' s all over . well , it ' s not now . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . football Governance Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Football Governance Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 6 June 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . football Governance Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Football Governance Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Stuart Andrew . ) question agree to . football Governance Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Football Governance Bill , it be expedient to authorise : ( 1 ) the charging of a levy by the Independent Football Regulator in connection with the exercise of its function under the Act ; and ( 2 ) the payment of sum into the Consolidated Fund . — ( Stuart Andrew . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Postal Services that the draft Post Office Network Subsidy Scheme ( Amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Transport that the draft renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( Amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 February , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Regulatory Reform that the draft Economic Growth ( Regulatory Functions ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 6 March , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Deregulation that the draft Growth duty : Statutory Guidance Refresh , which be lay before this House on 6 March , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . European Scrutiny Committee Ordered , that Gavin Robinson be discharge from the European Scrutiny Committee and Sammy Wilson be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Procedure Committee Ordered , that Liz Twist be discharge from the Procedure Committee and Andrew Western be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Tamar crossing toll I be present a petition that be jointly sponsor by my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) . we consider the toll to be an extra tax on our constituent and local business . the petition be support by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , my hon . friend the Members for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) and for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) , and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) . I congratulate the Tamar Toll Action Group , the Road Haulage Association and Councillors Lennox - Boyd and Tivnan on help to gather more than 6 , 300 signature . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Secretary of State for Transport to refuse permission for an increase in the toll this year . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Cornwall & Devon , declare that they do not want to see a toll increase on the Tamar Crossings in 2024 . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Secretary of State for Transport to refuse permission for an increase in the toll this year . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002929 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry this petition be from the resident of Walsall South . the petitioner note that " people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . " some of they have find it very difficult to access their medical record over a long time , and today ' s urgent question do not leave they any clear about when they will get compensation . " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . " there be signatory to the petition who have be directly affect by the failure to implement the recommendation . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Walsall South , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002954 ] Petition - St Leonard ' s Catholic School the Department for Education have so far express indifference to the parent , pupil and teacher at St Leonard ' s follow the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete crisis . with exam imminent , the Department must now listen to the petitioner and provide the pupil with the mitigating circumstance they deserve . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the Department for Education be not do enough to mitigate the anxiety and stress of the parent , pupil and teacher at St . Leonard ' s Catholic School in City of Durham follow on from the disruption cause by RAAC ; far declare that pupil at St . Leonard ' s Catholic School have not be offer mitigate circumstance for the disruption to their education cause by RAAC . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to bring forward legislation to ensure that the Secretary of State for Education can provide the pupil at St . Leonard ' s Catholic School mitigating circumstance for their exam this year , and all those who suffer similar circumstance . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002959 ] Derbyshire County Council Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) before I call Mr Perkins , may I inform the House that permission have be give to the House Photographer to move around part of the Chamber and take photograph in the course of this debate — that have consent ? let we hope he get my good side , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be pleased to have secure this Adjournment debate on the vital issue of Derbyshire County Council ' s funding and governance . the service that people in our county receive have diminish so much , and although the Minister and his Department must take their share of the blame , it be also important to have an opportunity to detail the way in which the county council ' s leadership have add to their problem . since the Government come to power here in Westminster , Derbyshire County Council ' s budget have be slash by £ 780 million in real term . in 2010 , its budget be about £ 1 billion , which be £ 1 . 48 billion in today ' s money , but Derbyshire County Council ' s current budget be £ 700 million . therefore , it be less than half of what it be 14 year ago in real term . at a time of great financial hardship , not least because of the runaway inflation unleash by the Conservative party , it be a disgraceful and heartbreaking situation . these cut have a material effect on the provision of service and on people ' s life . next week , the council will decide whether to go ahead with its proposal to close 10 child ' s centre across the region , not only deny essential service to the child and family of Derbyshire , but potentially cost 118 people their livelihood . centre at risk of closure include Holme Hall and Old Whittington in my constituency , and those in Alfreton , Ironville , Langley Mill , Bolsover , Hadfield , Gamesley , Matlock , and Charnos , in Ilkeston . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . I be try to understand this : Derbyshire County Council have have its money reduce at the same time as its population have grow , and so the demand on the money it have have grow . be there not something illogical , unfair and immoral with that happen , in this case to derbyshire ' s council ? it would not be an Adjournment debate without the hon . Gentleman ' s contribution and I be grateful to he for it , because his point be well make . the budget cut we have see in Derbyshire have come alongside an increase in the population and there be an argument , which many of we in Derbyshire have make , that the authority have be particularly badly treat on the finance . the point he make be a very valid one . when the UK and Derbyshire be both run by Labour administration , there be 56 of these child ' s centre , but after 14 year , if these plan be approve , there will be just 12 . the centre provide essential service such as health visit , speech and language development , healthy eating , parenting , school readiness , family support , parenting group and help to improve family relationship . we know that the work do by the staff in the centre have a massive benefit to the child and family that they help . I be first elect to this place in 2010 . during the election campaign , the issue of whether sure Start be safe if the Conservatives be elect be a key plank of the Labour party campaign . the conservative furiously deny Gordon Brown ' s claim that one in five sure Start centre would be endanger if the Conservatives be elect . well , in Derbyshire , Gordon Brown be indeed wrong : we have see not one in five of these child centre close , but four in five . now , the Government wonder why they be spend more than ever on the cost of failure , but they have fail to invest in the early year . when the Minister respond , can he tell we whether he believe that the loss of 44 of derbyshire ' s 56 child centre during the past 14 year of a Conservative Government be primarily down to elect a Conservative Government or down to elect a conservative council ? we will come on in due course to the authority ' s failing in special need education , but at every school I visit , experienced headteacher say to I that they have never see so many child with serious special need . have anyone in the Government consider whether the strip away of these early year service may be contribute to the huge increase in the number of child present on their first day at school without be school ready and often in need of support with speech and language , dress and toileting ? the authority get in touch with I and with other derbyshire mp to ask we to lobby Ministers for more money , which I and many other mp do , as the authority be be charge excessive amount by private provider of child ' s service . derbyshire have embark on a savage programme of privatisation of service and so would be vulnerable to private sector overcharging , because it have cripple the strong publicly provide service that it inherit . one feature of this Administration ' s approach have be the unfortunate habit of marry serial incompetence with careless arrogance and indifference to public opinion . the closure of these building be a case in point . Jon Pearce , Labour ' s parliamentary candidate in High Peak , have team up with local Labour councillor to support the community ' s plan to create a community hub and preserve the centre at Gamesley , which house a youth club and box club in one of derbyshire ' s most deprived community . those club be shock to receive a call out of the blue from DCC to say that they have a matter of week to find another venue , because the decision have already be make to close the building . the community be attempt to form a constituted community organisation and have secure a three - month extension , but it be engage in a race against time . we have also recently hear that Derbyshire County Council be look to close two third of the care home that it manage , as well as eight old people day centre . the right to dignity in old age be a sacred covenant in this country . old people should know that when they work hard for their entire life and make a contribution to society , they should be able to retire with a degree of comfort and security . I feel that the covenant be now disintegrate before our eye . the governor from a school in Brampton be in such despair at the situation that she attend the most recent full meeting of Derbyshire County Council to set out that , to meet budgetary constraint while continue to deliver the require level of care , the school be be force to cut 160 teaching hour a week . the cost of living crisis , spiral rent and ever increase mortgage rate be destroy the social contract in real time , and the inability of a council to provide service that facilitate for the most in need be a damn indictment of 14 year of Tory rule and local mismanagement . this situation could mean 162 vulnerable resident be turf out on to the street . the council be now close its own centre and use the private sector more — it be spend more and get less . spend on private care home have increase by 61 % since 2018 - 19 , at a time when the authority have have to close seven of its own care home , lose 156 bed . it have also close 140 bed in its remain 16 care home and have around 30 vacancy . where be the county ' s duty of care to those live in its care home ? it be not as if the council be efficient . while Labour - run Chesterfield continue to enjoy the low council tax in the country , the Tory administration on the council have raise council tax by almost 5 % . the need for social care for adult be only go to grow and grow as people live long life . I be sure we can all agree that this be a good problem to have , but more funding be need from Government if council be to be able to provide essential service such as this . can the Minister set out the guidance he have provide to county council and authority to plan for the delivery of service in the context of demographic change and real - term cut to budget ? the child of Derbyshire be suffer massively under the current council leadership , too . spend on private school for child with special need have increase from £ 5 . 7 million in 2018 - 19 to £ 24 million in 2023 - 24 , accord to the school forum report , while investment in council provision falter . at almost every single one of my weekly surgery , I have parent in attendance who have child with special need who be unable to get into a dedicated special need establishment . often , these child be exclude from their mainstream school — these child be miss month or , in some case , year of their schooling — and be unable to make a mainstream placement work , but unable to access specialist provision . it can now be reveal that , throughout this period of hardship , Derbyshire County Council have receive around £ 17 . 5 million of capital funding from the Department for Education since 2019 for additional special school place , but have spend a paltry £ 1 . 5 million . that mean £ 16 million , or 91 % of the budget it have receive , be sit in Derbyshire County Council ' s coffer , while parent of special need child lose sleep every night at the lack of provision in our county . it be nothing short of a betrayal of those parent and their child . what can the Minister do to work with colleague in the Department for Education to get this dysfunctional authority to deliver special need placement for derbyshire child ? the case of Brampton Primary School , which I refer to early , encapsulate all that be wrong with Derbyshire County Council ' s budget allocation and service delivery . the school have an excellent special need unit , but also have a tremendous reputation for how it have support special need child within its mainstream provision . as a result of this reputation , many parent from well outside the Brampton catchment area who have special need child will choose it for their child . however , this reputation for inclusivity come at a tremendous cost to Brampton . the primary school have 317 child on its roll , with 31 % of these child have SEN . it be proud of its reputation for create a supportive environment for child who have additional need , but each child who have an education , health and care plan have the first £ 6 , 000 of their extra cost cover by the school before any central funding come in . on top of that , dozen of child be wait for special need assessment from the overwhelmed county council education service . while the child and their family wait for their assessment to be hear , the school receive no additional funding for these pupil at all . a school that have go out of its way to support those who have the great need be crush into the rock of an inadequate funding mechanism and a county education service that be fail to support those child . can the Minister explain how we can ensure that school such as Brampton be not penalise for their own success in support special need child ? I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important debate . I agree with the point he be make about the need for Derbyshire County Council to get EHCP assessment do much more quickly and much more accurately than they be currently . I pay tribute to the three special school in my constituency , especially Alfreton Park , which be a brand new — rebuilt — school that be open last year , which be a sign that there have be some investment . do the hon . member agree with I about the importance of keep respite care centre open ? that be not least to provide parent with a bit of a break , but also because , if they close , there be a real risk that some parent will not be able to cope , and we will end up with the cost of have those kid in full - time residential care and cost the county council more . it be also the last thing parent want to happen . I join the hon . member in pay tribute to the special educational need placement he talk about . their work be outstanding . I be intend to be at Ashgate Croft School on Monday , but , unfortunately , I be unable to make it , and I will be return there soon . he be right about the importance of respite care , and the perverse impact that cut those service end up have on the amount of money the authority spend . I agree with he on both those point . although the council ' s budget have be dramatically reduce by the Government since 2010 , its use of the precious available fund have be nothing short of appal . budgetary constraint have produce an atmosphere of pressure within public sector delivery body , and I have a profound respect and pride for worker do their utmost in try circumstance , but the leadership of the council can and must do well . derbyshire enjoy the dubious honour of be the pothole capital of the UK . the Beatles may have sing about 10 , 000 hole in Blackburn , Lancashire , but research by Mac ' s Truck Rental find that Derbyshire be home to over 90 , 000 pothole , and I be pretty sure I have be over they all . pothole be a serious problem , with profound consequence for road user and public safety . at the behest of a constituent , I recently drive from Ashgate Avenue along Old Road towards Old Brampton , and then to Loundsley Green . the number of pothole I see on that stretch alone be staggering . I have have to replace two tyre and a spring this winter , and the state of our road be the no . 1 local issue raise by my constituent when we be out speak to they on the doorstep . while pothole be a danger for driver , they be lethal for cyclist . I have not yet find the courage to tell the enraged motorist of Chesterfield that the conservative leader of Derbyshire County Council claim that the council be one of the good in the country at pothole repair , but I have see how a penny - pinch approach create even more work for the council , often return to the same hole over and over again . some 24 % of derbyshire ' s principal road need repair , compare with the second bad county council , Kent and Sussex , at 6 % , way below . the leader of the county council , Mr Lewis , be close to the mark when he admit that his authority adopt a " patch - up and stick plaster approach " to improve our road . when the figure be investigate it all become clear : derbyshire spend just £ 54 . 81 per head on road repair , the low in the country , with an average spend across council of £ 86 . derbyshire be allocate 36 % less than the average council per head on road repair . no wonder pothole be so omnipresent across our county . the council have no plan for co - ordinating disruption to road service from different organisation , so why do the Government not adopt Labour ' s plan to have oversight of those contractor so that motorist do not go through the inconvenience of a road be dig up and patch up by one contractor , only for someone else to dig it up again the next week ? have benefit from support throughout covid , instead of invest extra money in its service the council choose to award Tory councillor by create additional cabinet post , and lift its spend while cut back on service . it also scrap the chief executive role only to create the post of manage director who , at a princely £ 176 , 000 , be pay more than the Prime Minister and be a £ 38 , 000 increase on the previous incumbent . I be afraid the answer for Derbyshire lie at its own door . the service provide by Derbyshire bear no relationship to those that exist in 2009 when Derbyshire and Britain be run by Labour Administrations . we can not go on like this . on 2 May the voter of Derbyshire have an opportunity to send a message to those who have let our county down so badly , vote for a Labour Mayor and police and crime commissioner , and start the process of rebuild our shattered public service in our beautiful county . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . a competition of try to judge the difference between he and a ray of sunshine would not be difficult to engage in , because if one listen to he , one would think all be doom and gloom and bleakness in Derbyshire . let I assure he , and my hon . friend the Members for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) and for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) who be in the Chamber this evening , that in no way , shape or form be Derbyshire County Council on any red list or radar - flash screen in my Department . that be good news for the resident and service user of Derbyshire . at this juncture , let I also put on record my thank , as we all should , to all those officer and councillor , irrespective of party , who turn up day in , day out to serve their community and to try to make thing a little well for people in Derbyshire . they deserve our thank . the hon . Gentleman reference in some detail — understandably so , as I be not seek to dismiss his concern in any way — child ' s centre and other service provide to young people . those , as he will know , be properly and in great respect in the domain of the Department for Education . I will not intrude upon other Ministers ' portfolio , but I undertake to the hon . Gentleman — I hope this will serve as a sort of hold reply — to ensure that my colleague in the DFE be aware of his remark and concern and respond accordingly and appropriately . there be little to no doubt that the funding scenario for local government in England have be challenge , and it would be foolish of any local Government Minister to stand at the Dispatch Box of the House of Commons and say it have not . it clearly have be , and that be recognise in the additional £ 600 million that we provide to the local government funding settlement this year . the funding formula have creak and groan under stress and strain over many year . the hon . Gentleman be right to point out — he be not unique in do so ; virtually every conversation I have with anybody with an interest in or represent the concern of local government draw attention to it — the two almost unstoppable trajectory of growth demand : in special educational need and the support service that wrap around that area of local government service ; and , at the other end of the age spectrum , in adult social care . those be good news story in themselves , because they be testimony to the success of the national health service in support people in their life and ensure that they be fit and healthy . those thing lead to additional and grow demand on the service of local government . local government be rise to that challenge across the piece magnificently , but there be always work to do . it be recognise across the two front Benches that the funding formula do not need tinker with or a little tweak here and there — it effectively need dismantle and start from scratch . such thing as the use of datum to inform , the ability to define need , the ability to respect and reflect upon the differential in need demand in rural versus urban , and in coastal as well , as be deal with yesterday in oral question , should all play into that . that be why I be talk to council leadership across the country and to the wide sector about where we think the formula should land in the next Parliament . the formula can not be ignore , because we all want , particularly reflect in this 50th year since the local government reform of 1974 , to find a robust and sustainable way forward , so that the future of english local government can continue for the next 25 to 50 year . Post covid , the sector ask the Government for stability and certainty . we have deliver that by not instigate a major review of the formula . as I say , that be a job for the next Parliament . it be worthwhile just to look at the figure for Derbyshire County Council . its manage director , Emma Alexander , have by her own admission describe the council — and I agree with her assessment — as be sound and stable financially . that be good news for council tax payer and service user of derbyshire because it mean that , against that backdrop of sound and stable finance , informed and proper decision and change can be take rather than knee - jerk reaction in response to pressure outwith the council ' s control . the council and Ms Alexander be realistic enough to highlight that the council ' s next focus — its immediate focus — have to be on modernisation , implement what they describe as " one council " work and new transformational strategic plan for the whole of Derbyshire . I think that that will drive efficiency . one can only hope that in that drive of improved efficiency , service will improve still far for the resident of Derbyshire . this year ' s settlement for the county council be a significant increase in core spending power of 8 . 3 % on the previous year , up £ 54 . 88 million , make available a total of £ 715 . 3 million for 2024 - 25 . the hon . Gentleman reference some of the work do through the social care grant . it now mean that for 2024 - 25 Derbyshire be receive £ 140 . 2 million through that grant . last year , of course , the Government award £ 70 million of levelling - up capital funding to the Derbyshire region , include £ 50 million for the South Derby growth zone and £ 20 million for Chesterfield town centre . I suggest to the hon . gentleman — and I think that in his heart of heart he know this — that one should look not just at the cold figure of the money produce , as important as that is , in the local government finance settlement , but at the broad range of support and intervention that the Government be provide across Derbyshire , include the town deal , the accelerated town fund , the levelling up fund , the community ownership fund , the future high street fund , the long - term plan for town , level up culture , capital regeneration , the UK share prosperity fund , the UK share prosperity fund multiplier , the community renewal fund , level up partnership and level up park , all of which have generate significant sum of money for Derbyshire , alongside the grant and council tax - raise ability of the county council , to deliver service for local people . may I say on behalf of the people of Derbyshire Dales that we be immensely grateful for the £ 13 . 5 million of levelling - up fund , without which the town of Ashbourne would be go back in time instead of look to the future ? there be also the share prosperity fund . one of my town , Matlock , will receive a lot of money and do a lot of good work . my experience of how the Government and the county council have react and respond to the need of my constituent be very different from that of the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) . I have have over 30 , 000 email since my election , and a great number of they have be about local council , SEND provision , pothole and other matter . the management of the county council by the Conservatives have be very good , and there be always more work to do . who could not spend more money on SEND ? these issue be precious to we , but give the money that be available , my experience be very different from that of the hon . Gentleman . I be worried that these matter have be bring up at this stage , mid - election , when really we need to look at the fact . Derbyshire County Council could always do with more money , but it manage the money that it have really well . the leader , Barry Lewis , be particularly good . he be a credit to we all . I be grateful to my hon . friend for the upbeat fillip , which we need to hear from a representative of Derbyshire . I be delighted to hear that her constituent — and I suggest probably the constituent of Chesterfield , Erewash , Bolsover , across the Amber Valley , South Derbyshire , Clay Cross , Staveley and Long Eaton — be pleased to see the attention on they to deliver level up and make sure that those engine of growth , livelihood and success can be sustain . I be convince by the work of the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) to deliver the East Midlands Combined County Authority . a £ 1 . 14 billion devolution deal for the wide west midland to drive growth and boost opportunity demonstrate yet again — if demonstration be still need — our commitment to devolve more money and power to local leader . the establishment of the East Midlands CCA will open the way to provide considerable funding for the area . the combined county authority will have control of £ 38 million a year . that can be well spend and maximise with the election of my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) , who be stand head and shoulder above the other candidate for the post of Mayor . I wish he well . I wish the people of Derbyshire well . this Government stand behind they , ready to serve they , to meet their local and central Government need . question put and agree to . House adjourn .