Recall of MPs Act 2015 : member for Wellingborough I have receive a notification from the petition officer for the constituency of Wellingborough in respect of the recall petition for Peter Bone . the recall petition close on Tuesday 19 December . as more than 10 % of those eligible to sign the petition do so , the petition be successful and the seat be accordingly vacant . I shall cause the text of the notification to be publish in the Votes and Proceedings and in the Official Report . [ the notification will appear at the end of today ' s proceeding . ] oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Defence Jobs what step his Department be take to support defence job . Mr Speaker , I hope that you and all your staff have an enjoyable Christmas and new year break . I confirm that the most recent estimate show that Ministry of Defence investment support 209 , 000 job in industry across the UK . we continue to support UK business through direct procurement of equipment and service , supply chain and export , and — invest in the future — through research and development . Blwyddyn newydd dda — happy new year , Mr Speaker . will the Minister outline investment at RAF Valley to date as part of the recapitalisation of the MOD ' s military fly training system and its local impact ? will he accept my invitation to visit RAF Valley , which be the large skilled employer on Anglesey , where he will receive a warm Welsh croeso ? my hon . friend be a constant champion of nuclear during my previous job , and I be glad she be carry on that form in defence . I would be delighted to accept the invitation . in addition to RAF Valley be important for military fly training , it be important economically as the second - large employer on the island . in the past 18 month , we have announce investment of £ 175 million in a new training facility for the Texan , and £ 600 million for Hawk T1 and T2 engineering maintenance , underscore our ongoing commitment to investment in job and skill at RAF Valley for many year to come . in May , the MOD admit that just 4 % of the steel use to construct Type 31 frigate be source from UK steelyard . what step be the Minister take to ensure that british warship be build in british shipyard by british worker use british steel ? be a very good and important question . as the hon . Lady know , source steel be primarily a decision for our prime contractor who lead on procure those platform . to take the example of Type 26 , I believe that almost 50 % of that be UK - source , so it vary accord to need and requirement , but we encourage our prime contractor to use UK steel where possible and practical . one decision that my hon . friend could make to support defence job be to retain HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark . will he reassure the House , the Royal Marines , the Royal Navy and the armed force that these two vital ship will be keep in operation and not mothball ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who speak with great authority from all his time on the Defence Committee . no final decision have be make on those platform . I know that there have be much coverage in the press — and , inevitably , chatter — and I know how important they be to our service personnel . I reassure he that we be look at this in the round . we be absolutely committed to support defence job across the piece . obviously , we have recruitment challenge , but we must also support british industry , and that be why the Secretary of State be lead on that in his role as shipbuilde tsar . Mr Speaker , I wish you and all right hon . and hon . member a happy new year . Northern Ireland be an integral part of the defence company supply chain , and I be keen to ensure that we in Northern Ireland have all the opportunity that there be on the mainland . what discussion have the Minister have with defence company in Northern Ireland such as Thales on secure further employment in the defence sector ? I can confirm that I hold my first small and medium - sized enterprise roundtable in Larne in Northern Ireland , where I meet a number of Northern Ireland sme , which be integral to our industry . just before Christmas , I meet Thales , which be responsible for the NLAW and a number of other important munition that have be use in Ukraine . that underline the importance of support our british armament industry . protection of Shipping Routes what step his Department be take to help protect shipping route through the Red sea . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Royal Navy in protect merchant shipping route in conflict zone . happy new year , Mr Speaker . the Royal Navy and the Government be commit to the protection of maritime trade , ensure that both people and shipping remain safe to travel through international water . that work be drive by the late intelligence and analysis of that picture . as I say on 19 December in my write statement , HMS Diamond have join our partner and ally as part of Operation Prosperity Guardian to protect freedom of navigation and merchant shipping in the Red sea and the gulf of Aden . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer , and those in our armed service for their work protect these important route . can he update the House on his discussion and work with our international partner to de - escalate the tension , so that we do not need all the protection work and can go back to the normal free flow of trade ? as my hon . friend will know , the Houthis have be cause havoc in that part of the Red sea , in particular attack ship . there be a 500 % increase in attack on maritime shipping from November to December , show that there be no direct connection to the wide conflict in the region but a decision by Houthis to attack free trade . that be unacceptable . we be work with our partner , through Operation Prosperity Guardian and other measure , to tackle it . the Secretary of State be absolutely right to point the finger at the Houthis , but we should not ignore the role of Iran in this enterprise . what be he and the Government do with our international partner to ensure that the merchant marine have the confidence to keep use the Red sea , which be critical to the smooth operating of world trade ? we call on the Iranian - back Houthis to immediately cease these attack . the Houthis will bear the responsibility and , I have to say , the consequence should they ignore those warning . the right hon . Gentleman ask what more we have be do ; I issue a statement along with 10 other country during the break , in which we make clear that consequence will follow if they do not stop this action . to be clear , the UK will not tolerate the Houthis close international waterway . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome what the Defence Secretary have to say . these attack on Red sea shipping must stop . they destabilise regional security , disrupt international trade and put civilian and military life in danger . we back the UK action with ally in the new maritime protection force , and the joint statement condemn the Houthi attack that the Secretary of State just mention . he announce today but have not mention to the House that HMS Richmond be sail to the Gulf . in the light of these escalate tension , what other Royal Navy ship have he put on stand - by for the region ? I do not mention that specifically because I have already make a write ministerial statement to the House . HMS Richmond be sail to the region because both HMS Diamond and HMS Lancaster be already there , and eventually they will need to be swap out . it be not escalation in term . I want to repeat to the right hon . Gentleman , the House and the country that we will not tolerate trade be impact globally in the manner in which the Houthis be impact it . it will have ramification on everybody ' s bill and on the flow of free trade and good , and it must come to a halt . we have make clear through that joint statement that we be prepared to take action if require . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s commitment to support we in that action . when the UK take the important step of join Operation Prosperity Guardian , the Secretary of State give the House this update in a write statement . he have do the same today , alongside his comment at question . if further action be require to deter Houthi attack and to safeguard freedom of shipping in the Red sea , will he undertake to provide Parliament with an oral statement ? yes . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker , and a very happy new year to you and to the House . the Secretary of State be right to highlight the geopolitical and economic threat from the Houthi - lead attack in the Red sea , as well as the need to participate in Operation Prosperity Guardian , but could he advise the House of how sustainable this and future joint operation will be when increase number of sailor have leave the service , and the intake to replace they in the 12 month to March 2023 plunge by 22 . 1 % ? first , I be confident that we will be able to continue or increase our action . we complete all our operational requirement at the moment . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that it be a very tight labour market , but I think that be a subject for celebration in this House : we be see such low sustained unemployment , even through some pretty turbulent time . we will redouble our effort to ensure that all our military service can recruit the people they need . Ukraine : Military Support what step his Department be take to provide military support to Ukraine . what step he be take to increase military support to Ukraine . what step he be take to increase military support to Ukraine . we continue to support Ukraine ' s priority , include air defence to protect national infrastructure , further artillery ammunition , and support to sustain capability , include 10 , 000 Ukrainians to be train in the first half of 2024 . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome the new maritime capability coalition , which build on the support the UK , Norway and other be provide to Ukraine ? will he also re - emphasise the need for we to continue to work very closely with our NATO partner and ally to continue to provide and strengthen support to Ukraine , and make sure those resource reach where they be need ? I absolutely will . as my right hon . Friend say , the new maritime capability coalition , which I launch at Admiralty House in December , have now be join by 10 further nation , together with Norway , who will help to ensure that Ukraine ' s success in Crimea and the Black sea continue . Ukraine , a nation which have virtually no navy at all , be do an incredible job , destroy up to 20 % of Russia ' s Black sea fleet . in the United States , additional aid to Ukraine remain stuck in the Senate and there be the potential for a shift in its political leadership later this year . consider we be still await this Government ' s promise action plan for Ukraine , how assured can we be that the Secretary of State be discuss with our NATO ally all future scenario to ensure there will be no lapse in collective military support for Ukraine ? I really hope that there can be no doubt about this Government ' s commitment to Ukraine . not only be we first with the training , but with tank , missile and commission to enable Ukraine to continue this fight in all manner of different way . on a personal level , have have a family of three Ukrainians live with we in my house for a year , I be personally committed to this cause as well . we be do everything possible , include work throughout the Christmas and new year period during which I have numerous conversation with my ukrainian opposite number and other throughout its government , to make sure we be support their action . it be a ukrainian plan that be need to win this war , not a british or american one . labour fully support provide military aid to Ukraine , but what step be the Secretary of State take to speed up the development of a stockpile strategy , in collaboration with NATO ally , to replenish supply and ensure that Ministry of Defence procurement and part of the defence industry be on an urgent operational footing both to support Ukraine for the long term and to rebuild UK stock for any future conflict ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we already have a huge amount of military munition and equipment on order both to replenish and to help continue to support Ukraine . when it come to Ukraine itself , the United Kingdom set up the international fund for Ukraine , through which we have numerous different order in place for equipment for Ukraine , which have raise nearly £ 800 million . I think up to £ 400 million be already commit through those contract . I congratulate my right hon . friend on the work he have do as Defence Secretary since take on the Department . his long experience in government have show to the fore and I be delighted at the work he have do so far . in June last year I write , at the request of no . 10 and the Cabinet Office , to request the 2024 - 25 funding for support to Ukraine . the funding request be between £ 2 . 3 billion and £ 2 . 6 billion . unfortunately , since that time we have hear nothing from the Government about what they plan to do for the next financial year . planner in the Ministry of Defence need time , as do the Ukrainians , to get use to it . if we do not start make an announcement soon , we will fall behind many of our european colleague who have already overtake we with their support . Mr Speaker , can I start by thank my right hon . friend on behalf of everybody in this House ? he have the foresight to supply nlaw to Ukraine ahead of time and the foresight to start training troop for Ukraine ahead of time . today I can say that we have train 54 , 000 troop , include those who have train since 2014 . he be absolutely right about the ongoing support for Ukraine . all I can say be that he will not be disappoint and he will not need to wait too long . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in just five day last week , Russia fire 500 drone and missile at Ukraine . Putin be step up his attack , so we must step up UK support , but current military aid funding run out in a matter of week . the former Defence Secretary say — although not today — that without new money it be " very hard to continue the leadership the UK have be take on Ukraine " . I ask the current Defence Secretary about the 2024 Ukraine funding in the House in November . the former Defence Secretary write about it eight month ago . seven week from when I ask , I ask again : when will new military aid funding for Ukraine be announce , and will it be multi - year ? perhaps the right hon . Gentleman do not hear my previous answer : it will not be long . to correct the record for the House , the funding — £ 2 . 3 billion — continue through to April this year , so it be not in any way , shape or form in danger of run out . to reassure the right hon . Gentleman and the House , I be also in constant contact with Umerov — my opposite number — and many other throughout the ukrainian system , so they understand where funding be up to and be able to plan accordingly . woman in the Defence Sector what recent assessment he have make of trend in the number of woman employ in the defence sector . a happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , and to all colleague . as at October 2023 , 55 . 4 % of civil servant be female — a rise of 0 . 7 percentage point compare with 1 October 2022 — and 11 . 7 % of the UK regular armed force and 15 . 9 % of Future Reserves 2020 be woman , up by 1 . 2 percentage point and 1 . 4 percentage point respectively in the past five year . that mean that the trend be in the right direction , but we can do well , and I be confident that we will do so across the defence enterprise . [ Official Report , 9 January 2024 , Vol . 743 , c . 4MC . ] happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , and to the House . I thank the Minister for his response . many of my constituent work in the defence sector , whether at RNAS Yeovilton , Leonardo in Yeovil or Thales in my constituency . I commend initiative such as Leonardo ' s AeroWomen programme , which aim to increase gender parity in the sector , but I be concern by the barrier that woman still face . the woman in defence charter aim to have woman make up 30 % of the UK armed force by 2030 , yet the current number be a meagre 12 % . have the Minister make an assessment in the last quarter of 2023 of the success of the charter since its launch ? order . it might help if the hon . Lady put in for an Adjournment debate . I would gladly answer such a debate . I know all the site the hon . Lady refer to , and I do understand the issue . she will know that we be actively engage with the defence supplier forum to increase the number of woman across the defence enterprise , and the target be 30 % . happy new year , Mr Speaker . many woman undertake critical role in our defence industry , so the policy by which we procure the equipment they build be very important for they . minister have be tell the Defence Committee since before Christmas that we can expect a major announcement on procurement reform in the new year . as we be now in January , can we have a commitment that we will have that announcement by the end of this month , please ? my right hon . friend have cunningly get that question in . my understanding be that it be imminent . however , the point on woman and procurement be well make , and my right hon . friend will have observe — I hope with pleasure — the work that have be do , for example , in procure uniform that actually fit the female form , which be not previously the case . Gaza : UK aid what step he be take to support the delivery of UK aid to Gaza . what step he be take to support the delivery of UK aid to Gaza . what step he be take to support the delivery of UK aid to Gaza . happy new year , Mr Speaker . in support of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the first maritime delivery of UK aid arrive in Egypt at new year . RFA Lyme Bay and four RAF aircraft have position over 150 tonne of humanitarian aid into Egypt . distribution of the aid have be impede by challenge around its movement into Gaza . fcdo colleague continue to work with the UN , Israel and Egypt to allow great volume of aid to be deliver . Blwyddyn newydd heddychlon I bawb . — [ translation : a peaceful new year to everyone . ] on 29 December an aid convoy belong to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be hit by israeli gunfire , despite the vehicle be identifiable with the agency ' s marking and after the IDF have designate the route from Gaza City in early co - ordination . give Israel ' s target of aid convoy , can the Minister say whether the Ministry of Defence maintain a tracker database of allege breach or violation of international humanitarian law in Gaza , as it have previously say it do for Yemen ? I will have to write to the hon . Lady on her exact point about the tracker . I be not aware of one , but that do not necessarily mean there be not one . I will write to she . although humanitarian aid be a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office lead , we continue to work with partner and ally to advocate for other crossing to be open and to increase the volume of aid deliver into Gaza . I welcome the news that RFA Lyme Bay have deliver aid to Egypt , so it be very disappointing to know that aid be still be hold up . give Israel ' s activity in Gaza , the only way we can make sure that humanitarian aid get to the people who need it be by try to secure another cessation in hostility . what role be the MOD play in try to make that happen ? the MOD have put its shoulder to the wheel in support of the Government ' s wide diplomatic effort but , obviously , the negotiation of a pause such as the one that the hon . Lady rightly say be necessary to deliver aid in great volume be a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office lead . Mr Speaker , I believe you have have the foresight to grant an urgent question in which such question may well be answer shortly by a Minister from that Department . we be witness horrific scene in Gaza . the humanitarian catastrophe there need great focus from country like our own and other around the world , to bring it to an end and to get that aid in . give that the Prime Minister say in a statement before prorogation that we would use british armed force capability to make those shipment of aid in great number , why be we not get those great number of aid in ? what be he do to get Israel to open the crossing and to get that aid in , in the quantity that be need ? british armed force be be use to deliver aid into Gaza , and they have do so to good effect . my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary have strike up an excellent operational relationship with his israeli counterpart , which have allow for the opening of the Kerem Shalom crossing . again , I think that be a reflection of the success of the UK ' s engagement with the israeli Government on this matter . the volume of aid be limit not by the availability of military capacity — there be plenty of that — but by the availability of crossing and the ability to distribute the aid , on which Foreign Office colleague be work closely with the UN , Israel , Egypt and other to increase . happy new year , Mr Speaker . France and Jordan successfully deliver medical aid to Gaza by air last week . have the Minister consider the viability of the UK air - drop food and medical supply to Gaza in the same way ? I think air dropping be a very imprecise way of do business . our preference be to seek maritime route . be a feasibility study be undertake to see whether aid could be deliver directly into Gaza from ship to shore , should the future security situation allow it ? the Defence Secretary have lead internationally on exactly such an initiative , work with our friend in the Cypriot Ministry of Defence . there be idea to do exactly that , but they obviously need to be agree with all party before they can happen . I have urgently press the Minister and the Department to secure Red sea vessel , as well as facilitate aid into Gaza . People in Bolton be demand assurance on both maritime safety and humanitarian support for Gaza . what assurance can he provide to people in Bolton ? clearly , the delivery of aid into Gaza be principally a maritime and aviation effort in the eastern Mediterranean , but my hon . friend be correct to say that the security of shipping in the Red sea also have an impact . that be why Royal Navy warship be part of the Red sea taskforce that be seek to protect those sea lane . veteran what recent step Veterans UK have take to support veteran and their family . what step his Department be take to support veteran . what step his Department be take to support veteran . what step his Department be take to support veteran . the MOD deliver a range of service to veteran and their family . this include the administration and payment of armed force pension and compensation , the provision of tailor advice and assistance through the Veterans Welfare Service and Defence Transition Services , and integrate personal commissioning for veteran . veteran homelessness rise by 14 % last year accord to the Government ' s own figure . do the Minister agree that his colleague , the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , be fail to deliver on his pledge to end veteran homelessness ? the hon . Lady will be aware that homelessness be not principally a function of the Ministry of Defence , but all of we want to make sure that veteran and their family be properly accommodate , and naturally reduce homelessness remain a Government priority . thirteen veteran advisory and pension committee across the UK provide the Minister ' s Department with an important platform for hear and help veteran . last year , with his help and the help of member on both side of the House , my private Member ' s Bill give the Secretary of State great flexibility to use the network to help more veteran in more way . can the Minister tell the House what progress he have make with the vapc since my Bill receive royal assent on 18 September ? first , let I congratulate my hon . friend on his work on the Bill , which should properly be call the Millar Bill . I recently meet VAPC chair to discuss next step , and we will ensure that the MOD engage with representative from vapc in a series of work group to set the direction for secondary legislation that will clarify their future role . can the Minister give some more detail on how the Department intend to take forward the recommendation from the Veteran Welfare Service review , and can he outline any timescale to which he intend to work on that review ? our response to the independent review of welfare service for veteran accept the principle and intend outcome of all the recommendation , and we will shortly publish our response to the recommendation of the armed force compensation scheme quinquennial review . the review will inform a programme of improvement in the way we deliver the compensation scheme and how we provide welfare support to ensure a consistently high level of service . the response will set out our commitment and high - level plan , in particular how we will make our service less adversarial and more user - friendly . as promise by the Prime Minister , medal be be issue to recognise those who participate in Britain ' s nuclear testing programme during the 1950 and 1960 . some family have express a wish for a presentation ceremony for their medal . how would the Minister recommend that those be organise , whether locally or nationally ? nuclear test medal have be mail to thousand of recipient to ensure that as many as possible have receive they before Remembrance Sunday , and also with the advanced age of some of the recipient in mind . my sense be that that be the right thing to do and have be appreciate by recipient . naturally , there be opportunity — my hon . friend may have such opportunity himself — to thank veteran and mark their contribution . I think the lieutenantry in some county have do so , but the imperative be to get the medal out before Remembrance Sunday . I spend the recess study the veteran strategy action plan with its 60 - odd commitment and think about the view of the Minister for Veterans ' affair on what he call the " lack of political horsepower " . why be it , after 14 year and so many commitment , that 76 . 4 % of veteran be so dissatisfied with the compensation scheme for illness and injury , and why be 500 veteran household declare homeless every three month , as we have hear ? be there still a lack of political horsepower or be there a need for well co - ordination between the — Order . I be not be funny , but I have a whole list of question to get through . we have to have short question — that be very long . I think the Minister get the gist of it . I get the gist . the armed force compensation scheme and the war pension scheme will be dramatically improve by the ongoing digitalisation of veteran ' service . that be a huge commitment that will bring we into the 21st century and improve the service that be provide to veteran who be seek compensation . the hon . Gentleman will know that in the last financial year there be 61 complaint to Veterans UK and 2 , 000 expression of thank for the service people have receive . aukus what recent progress his Department have make on the AUKUS partnership . I be pleased to confirm that we have make significant progress in develop the AUKUS partnership . the AUKUS defence ministerial meeting last month announce a range of tri - national activity take forward advanced capability , include our deep space advance radar capability , DARC . australian personnel be train in the UK and the US , and £ 4 billion - worth of contract have be award to UK company build SSN - AUKUS . finally , Congress pass legislation to enable AUKUS to facilitate frictionless trade between partner , include the reform of the international traffic in arm regulation . the Secretary of State , together with the australian Prime Minister , be recently welcome at Rolls - Royce Raynesway in my constituency as part of the AUKUS preparation . I be sure the Minister would also be welcome , if he can find time in his schedule for a visit . two year ago , Rolls - Royce open its door to the UK ' s first nuclear skill academy , which take on 200 apprentice annually and train they to become nuclear engineer . have the Minister consider how the Government can work with Rolls - Royce to further the UK ' s nuclear skill capacity ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her excellent question and I would be delighted to visit Raynesway . last August , I be pleased to announce the launch of the nuclear skill taskforce , jointly with the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) . the taskforce will drive activity through a coherent action plan , bring together government , academia and employer , crucially from across both civil and defence nuclear sector , include from Rolls - Royce . it will build on exist work to address the skill challenge across the nuclear sector and will bolster our ability to deliver on our commitment make under the AUKUS defence partnership . AUKUS have strong support from across the House , but although the time scale seem very long , in reality there be grow concern in the defence community that they may already be slip , often because of bureaucratic inertia . what be be do to keep this vital project on track ? how often be the Minister meet his official to monitor and chase progress ? I be not aware of any slippage . we meet frequently and discuss this incredibly important matter . I be pleased to hear his confidence that AUKUS have cross - party support . it be generate huge number of job for the future : an additional 1 , 700 job will be create in Raynesway to build the reactor for the UK and Australia . it be an incredibly exciting project and we be 100 % committed to it . I call the shadow Minister . let I make clear that AUKUS pillar 1 and pillar 2 have labour ' s full backing . however , we be concern about whether the Government ' s current focus on implement AUKUS be sufficient and we want more UK leadership for this national endeavour . the late list of ministerial responsibility , from October 2023 , do not even mention AUKUS or Australia , although it do mention the USA . minister have agree that pillar 1 should have only a part - time official responsible for its implementation . if AUKUS be not even in his job description and his official be work on it part time , how can we take the Minister seriously when he say it be important ? the way we take it seriously be not by judge the number of official or what we be do in that regard , but by look at what we be actually deliver in the real world in term of military capability and for british industry . as I just say , the US have reform ITAR and there be thousand of job across the UK , boost our Indo - Pacific capability . this be an extremely important project . we be make huge progress and the Government be very proud of the partnership . cost of live : Armed Forces Personnel what step his Department be take to support armed force personnel with the cost of living . defence have introduce a range of measure to support armed force personnel , include cap subsidised accommodation charge to 1 % ; freeze daily food charge ; increase travel allowance by 7 % ; provide wraparound childcare to family and increase the continuity of education allowance rate from August 2023 ; and implement the big uplift in service pay in 21 year , which include 9 . 7 % for the most junior rank . the Government claim that service personnel be not financially burden by domestic assignment , but a constituent of mine — a serve officer of the armed force — find himself thousand of pound out of pocket , while other report turn to food bank to survive . what discussion be the Minister have with Cabinet colleague to expand measure and address the cost incur as a result of serve this country during the cost of living crisis ? the cost of living crisis have affect all our constituent , have it not ? Covid have make life difficult for everybody , but at the Ministry of Defence we have recognise as far as we can the pressure that bear , particularly on the low pay . that be why we have accept the 9 . 7 % uplift in pay , which I think be unique across the public sector for the last year , have accept in full the recommendation of the Armed Forces Pay Review Body . I congratulate the Minister on the excellent work that he have do to support our armed force with their cost of living . may I ask he to be especially aware of the burden that fall on member of our special force — the additional burden that they bear within family as well as in the field ? will he consider that when he think far about way to ameliorate and support their living circumstance ? I understand my right hon . friend ' s interest in this matter . he can be sure that the special force — although we never talk about they — be always at the forefront of our mind . Ukraine : military aid what military aid his Department plan to provide to Ukraine in financial year 2024 - 25 . I refer the hon . gentleman to the Secretary of State ' s early answer to the former Secretary of State and shadow Secretary of State . in 2022 , the then Prime Minister Boris Johnson announce what military aid the UK would make available to Ukraine through to April 2023 ; in September 2022 , the subsequent Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , announce — a full 15 month ago — what military aid she would make available to Ukraine through to April 2024 . why have there not yet be an announcement on funding for Ukraine for the rest of 2024 and beyond ? in the interest of brevity , I refer the hon . gentleman to the answer give to the former Secretary of State and shadow Secretary of State early . I welcome the successful conclusion of the RAF ' s training of the first cohort of ukrainian pilot . as they move to learn to fly F - 16s , can my right hon . friend commit that in the next financial year we will continue work with our ally to give Ukraine the pilot and plane they need to defend themselves ? absolutely . any pilot training pipeline have a foundational level of fly training that we be able to deliver . similarly , give that English be the international language of aviation , we be able to do language training as well . very obviously , the more aircraft - specific training have to be deliver by F - 16 nation , but we be proudly part of that F - 16 coalition . Israel : Terrorist Attacks what step he be take to support Israel in prevent terrorist attack . we have provide intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance to help anticipate any further attack and to assist with hostage recovery . some 100 , 000 people have be displace from their home in northern Israel because of the fear that if Hezbollah adopt the same tactic as Hamas , the carnage could be even bad than on 7 October . what be the UK Government do to try to prevent more weapon from get to Hezbollah , to de - escalate the situation and to see , at the very least , Hezbollah retreat far north from the border ? I thank my right hon . friend . we be work alongside our P3 partner to de - escalate tension on the blue line and reduce that risk of escalation . we be continue our effort to support the resilience of the lebanese armed force , who we have help elsewhere , with the eventual aim of get they to the lebanese southern border and ensure implementation of UN Security Council resolution 1701 . Armed Forces Recruitment what step his Department be take to recruit armed force personnel . we continue to apply an array of measure to support recruitment and retention and refine the armed force offer . those include financial incentive , flexible service and an improved accommodation offer . the Haythornthwaite review have a key part to play , and team have be stand up across the Ministry of Defence to implement all 67 recommendation , work to establish a reward and incentive architecture that will attract and retain skill . Colchester be the proud home of 16 Air Assault Brigade , the Army ' s rapid reaction force . my right hon . friend know Colchester well . what step be he take to promote recruitment into the parachute regiment base at Merville barracks in Colchester , one of the UK ' s new and most vibrant city , where recruit will be embrace by our local community ? my hon . friend and I both have an affection for the city of Colchester . the regiment continue to meet its operational requirement . there be currently an internal transfer bounty scheme that offer a Haythornthwaite - compliant £ 7 , 500 to infantry private soldier on successful transfer to the parachute regiment . that support the Army in move towards its future soldier structure , and will certainly be of assistance to the regiment . despite the answer the Minister give to the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , the fact remain that this year retention and recruitment into the armed force be become a serious crisis . what be the current difference between intake and outflow for the three service ? I be more than happy to write to the hon . gentleman with the detailed breakdown per service , break down into regular and reserve . he be right to point out that right across the western world there be a crisis in retention and recruitment into the armed force , but I hope that the measure that I describe in answer to early question indicate how we be try to address that , not least by increase the pay to member of our armed force , especially the most junior . I call Jamie Stone — not here . ARAP ineligibility : wellbee of Personnel if he will make an assessment of the potential impact of the ineligibility of certain afghan armed force personnel for the afghan relocation and assistance policy on the wellbeing of serve and retire military personnel . it be undoubtedly the case that many of those who serve in Afghanistan be deeply disappointed that those they serve with , either in the afghan national army or the afghan special force , or in the wide apparatus of the state , have not be able to come . I thank the Minister for his answer . a constituent who serve in Afghanistan tell I recently that current and retired member of our armed force face considerable torment when they see their former afghan colleague leave high and dry by the British Government . what active step be the Minister take to provide support to our service personnel in that situation , and to reunite the small but fortunate band of afghan veteran that make it to the UK with their british service colleague ? within the serve cohort , such be the turnover of staffing within the armed force that very few will have have direct operational experience alongside either the afghan armed force or even the patrol interpreter and other who be eligible for ARAP , but the hon . and learn Lady be right that some element of the serve force will be deeply invest in this matter . obviously the chain of command be there to support they and answer their question . within the veteran community , the sentiment be very strongly hold . the reality be that there have to be limit to the UK scheme , as there be to those of other country . no country have make an open offer to those who serve in the afghan security force ; all country ' offer be focus on those who work directly with that country . clearly what direct service look like be a matter for debate . I suspect that a question on that be come . surely special consideration must be give to those member of the afghan special force who , even if they do not work directly for we , work extremely closely with we . can the Minister tell the House how many , or how few , member specifically of the Triples and the special force face a constant threat to their life and ought to be rescue ? the number that be circulate be around 400 to 500 , but that be not a number that the UK Government can necessarily verify because we do not have the employment record of those unit . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as we enter 2024 , I pay tribute to and thank our armed force for all their extraordinary work during 2023 . I know that the whole House will join I in that . sadly , 2024 be likely to be just as busy . we have already discuss the intolerable situation of the Houthis close international waterway . we call for the Iranian - back Houthis to immediately cease those attack . the Houthis will bear responsibility for the consequence should they ignore those warning . happy new year to you and the whole House , Mr Speaker . two west Lancashire man , Robert Hanson and Arthur Pim , serve in the RAF ' s photographic reconnaissance unit during world war two , take million of photo over enemy line . their effort help the ally to defeat the Nazis . there remain no national monument to the PRU . I be back one ; be the Government ? I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for raise the subject , and I will certainly be happy to arrange for she to meet with a Minister to discuss it far . Innocent Ukrainians have just see in a second new year under some of the heavy aerial bombardment since Russia ' s illegal war begin . will my right hon . friend please update the House on what step he be take to ensure Ukraine have modern aerial defence system to protect innocent Ukrainians from these murderous , appal airstrike ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about this ongoing illegal war run by Putin . we immediately respond to the attack over the new year by bring forward the gifting of 200 further air defence missile . I have mention already the international fund for Ukraine , which be help to provide , among other thing , air defence . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister for Defence Procurement have today confirm that HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark , base in Devonport , which I be proud to represent , be still at risk of be mothball . he say that no final decision have be make , so the risk to these ship be real . when will a decision be make ? will the ship be cut , or will they be tie up alongside , fly the white ensign but never really put to sea ? of course anyone who be serious about the defence budget have to make the decision about whether to put into maintenance ship that have already serve twice their intended life — 18 year and more , time two — and that would come out of that maintenance after brand - new ship be at sea . there be obviously a decision for the Royal Navy to make on that , but I remind the House that there be eight type 26 and five type 31 under construction or under contract . we face a complex range of security threat and challenge in our rapidly change world . cyber - attack be increasingly common and nation across the world be prepare to become combat ready for space warfare . what assessment have the Minister ' s Department make of support defence job to assist the UK ' s effort against cyber and space warfare ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who ask a second excellent question , give the grow importance of the cyber and space domain . on cyber , I can confirm that the 2022 national cyber strategy highlight the Government ' s commitment to grow the UK cyber - ecosystem and that new cyber - career structure be be develop across Defence , with new way of training , upskille and reward our people . on space , we have create a space academy for Government , industry and academia and be support cross - Government work to develop a space workforce action plan for 2024 . do the Minister recognise any semblance of truth in this statement by Dominic Cummings , " the scandal of nuclear weapon infrastructure which be a dangerous disaster and a budget nightmare of hard - to - believe and highly classified proportion " , regard the Coulport naval facility and the nuclear deterrent black hole ? as with our previous exchange , while I respect the hon . Gentleman ' s position , we do not comment on speculation . what I can say be that nuclear infrastructure be incredibly important to the future of our deterrent . his Majesty ' s naval base Clyde have develop an establish management plan with a 40 - year horizon that provide a strategic vision for the future that be clear and simple and that endure , and we have a £ 1 . 4 billion programme for Faslane and Coulport nuclear facility and nuclear infrastructure . last month ' s treaty with Japan and Italy bring the global air combat programme ' s Team Tempest a step close to reality . it follow news that BAE Systems be to hire 2 , 700 graduate and apprentice this year , include more than 500 Lancashire - base role across the air division . what estimate do my hon . friend make of the defence sector ' s impact on the economy , job prospect and opportunity for young people in place like Fylde — and , indeed , Chorley ? that be a very good question . it be brilliant news , and we be delighted to have sign the treaty with Japan and Italy last month . my hon . friend ask about the impact ; it be fair to say that it will have a particular impact on his constituency , which house the Warton site , where we have our factory of the future for the global combat air programme . I can confirm that a 2021 report by PwC estimate that the programme would contribute £ 26 billion to the UK economy between 2021 and 2050 and support on average 21 , 000 job per year , many of which will be in Lancashire , Mr Speaker , and particularly in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I do not know whether the Minister have see the article by the defence editor , Mark Nicol , about the lack of transparency on pinch point in the armed force personnel workforce . figure on that use to be produce regularly . when be the decision take to no long produce they , and will the Minister commit today to produce they in the interest of transparency ? I can not give the right hon . Gentleman a straight answer to that because I can not remember when the figure be withdraw , but I can certainly look into it and write to he . on pinch point , he will be aware that , through Haythornthwaite - type process , we be incentivise people to join part of defence that be underpopulate at the moment , such as chef and — Order . I call Sir Michael Fabricant . my hon . friend have already acknowledge the importance of woman in the armed force . will he join I in express belate thank to retire Air Marshal Sir Baz North , who , in a difficult constituency case , help I to get someone into the Royal Air Force , and will he join I in praise that person , Lowri Simner , who have just be promote to squadron leader ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in congratulate they both . the service family accommodation at clive barrack in my constituency be concern . a family who have severe health problem be live in a mouldy house . the Defence Infrastructure Organisation do not want to spend the money on fix those problem ; it want to move they into a different house for the second time in two year . what be the Minister ' s commitment on upgrade and maintain the housing stock , particularly on site that be earmark for closure , such as clive barrack ? the hon . Lady be welcome to write to I about that specific case . I pay tribute to she because she consistently raise such accommodation issue — we have an exchange about they in Westminster Hall . she mention DIO money and , as I say in that exchange , the key be investment . we have double the budget for maintenance and upgrade this year as part of the extra £ 400 million that we be put in . that be why we can address the damp and mould in so many property . I be happy to look at the specific of the case she mention . as the medium report the retirement of HMS Bulwark and HMS Albion , there be obvious question about Britain ' s future amphibious capability , which be use so admirably during the Falklands war , along with the unrivalled skill of our specialist troop . do the Minister agree that our Royal Marine commando be an asset that we can not afford to lose ? I absolutely agree . I just want to correct a point that I make early : I be talk about frigate , but I think the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) be talk about the landing platform dock , on which no decision have be make . as my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) mention , the Royal Marines be absolutely essential . I have ask the First Sea Lord to provide a plan for how their excellent work will be take forward . the long - run industrial dispute at Defence Equipment and Support in Beith in my constituency start in July last year and look set to continue as worker fight for free and equal treatment . give the important work that be undertake at that facility — not least to ensure that vital equipment be dispatch to Ukraine — will the Secretary of State personally intervene to break the stalemate , end the dispute once and for all , and provide equality for all worker at the Beith site ? I know how important this issue be to the hon . Lady . differ rate be pay for worker with different skill and qualification , which be normal practice in both the public and private sector . I understand that a generous pay offer remain on the table . it would significantly improve the pay of the worker in dispute beyond the recent 2023 pay award , which have already significantly uplifted base pay for those specific worker , alongside over £ 4 , 000 in bonus . it be disappointing that GMB member have vote to continue industrial action , but DE & S official continue to be open to talk with the GMB on a constructive basis . the pursuit of exquisite exclusivity in defence procurement be to be laud , but can the Minister confirm that his Department be also focus on procure the logistic platform that we need to sustain it ? be it perhaps time for a defence operational capability audit to look into that key capability gap ? my hon . friend make an excellent point — of course , he speak with great experience . as we have be stress , the whole point of acquisition reform be , instead of seek exquisite platform , to go for 80 % to get they into service fast and then to have spiral development . we think that that be the future of procurement . our nuclear veteran wait 70 year for recognition and be wait even long for justice . in a debate last year , the Minister promise " in the day ahead " to examine 150 document relate to blood and urine test hold by the Atomic Weapons Establishment . what do his examination find ? that be certainly my intention — I have not see they yet but I intend to . the hon . Lady will have see the list of 150 ; I think she will be disappoint about the content of those document when she see they , because very few of they will give we any information that will take we any far forward . but I commit to read they and will certainly do so in the very near future . minister know that Sir John Moore barrack in my constituency be due for disposal in 2026 as part of the future soldier programme , which will bring phase 1 capability to the Pirbright site and put 900 house in its place . will a Minister meet I to ensure that the current ministerial team be right behind the move and , if it be , that we have an intelligent masterplan that do not just help Winchester City Council to meet its housing target ? I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend . the 2023 armed force satisfaction survey confirm that half of personnel do not believe that their family benefit from be a service family . the impact of service life on family and personal life remain a top factor behind the intention to leave , so what do the Secretary of State propose to do to listen to force family and implement policy to make a difference ? it be very important that our service personnel feel that they be not only honour when they go to war but comfortable at home . one of the big thing I be do be press forward with the review of armed service accommodation , include by provide £ 400 million to improve that accommodation , which will make the life of service personnel well at home . a " short - sighted , militarily illiterate manoeuvre totally at odd with strategic reality " be how the Defence Committee describe , in February 2018 , the proposal to retire HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark ahead of their anticipate lifetime date of 2033 and 2034 . may I advise and warn the Secretary of State not to be blindside by the people who be raise this matter again after a change of Secretary of State for Defence ? I point out that , of course , they will be five year old , but I again stress to the House that no decision have be make on the landing platform dock vessel . let I take the Minister back to the Triples . there have be some debate about the extent to which the Triples be pay directly by UK force . I know that that be the case . do the Minister accept that and , if he do , do he not think they should be look at under category 2 rather than category 4 of the afghan relocation and assistance policy scheme ? there be a difference of opinion between the advice I receive from official and the position the hon . Gentleman have set out . it would be good to bring he in to meet those official , have that discussion and reach some truth . will the Ukraine action plan 2023 ever be publish ? well still , will there be a Ukraine action plan 2024 ? and when will that be publish ? we work hand in glove with the ukrainian Government to make sure that the action plan be one that can win the war . we have see huge progress , in particular , in Crimea and the Black sea , and we look forward , throughout the House , to further progress in ' 24 for our brave ukrainian friend . give that homelessness among veteran have go up by 14 % and that it be a cross - departmental issue , what more be minister do to ensure that all our veteran be house ? as I say in answer to a previous question , homelessness remain a Government priority , whether or not someone be a veteran . in general , the experience of our veteran , when they return to civilian life , be a positive one and we should celebrate that . Clyde - build HMS Argyll be the old escort in the fleet . she be currently in refit in Devonport and have be since August ' 22 . will the Minister for Defence Procurement advise when she will be recommissione , re - crewed and back in service ? I will have to write to the hon . gentleman on that one . Israel and Palestine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office if he will make a statement on the situation in Israel and Palestine . let I begin by reiterate our fundamental belief in Israel ' s right to defend itself against Hamas . the event of 7 October be truly horrifying . Israel have a right to restore its security and to ensure that such horrify event can never be repeat . we be also clear that too many civilian have be kill . Israel need to ensure that its campaign be target on Hamas leader and operative , fulfil its obligation to protect civilian and be consistent with international humanitarian law . no one want to see this conflict go on for a moment long than necessary . that be why the United Kingdom play a lead role in secure the passage of UN Security Council resolution 2720 , which make clear the urgent demand for expand humanitarian access . the resolution also call for the release of hostage and for step towards a sustainable ceasefire , for which the British Government have consistently lead call . Britain have be push a number of innovative and impactful approach — especially , but not only , maritime delivery — to support aid for Gaza . we be focus on the big picture and long - term strategic value . UK Ministers be lobby the Government of Israel hard and regularly to allow more aid in and reduce the numerous constraint that be hinder many aspect of our and other ' effort to help Gazan civilian . we have appoint Mark Bryson - Richardson as our representative for humanitarian affair in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . last week , a Royal Navy vessel deliver 87 tonne of life - save UK and cypriot aid , destine for Gaza , into Egypt . we have also support the United Nations World Food Programme to deliver a new humanitarian land corridor from Jordan into Gaza . seven hundred and fifty tonne of life - save food aid arrive in the first delivery and a second convoy , with 315 tonne of critical supply , reach Gaza last week , partly fund by the United Kingdom . nevertheless , the risk of famine be stark , and the Foreign Secretary and other Ministers throughout the Government be push the need to address this with the israeli Government . the Government be urge all side to avoid further escalation . the situation be fragile and an escalation in violence , include on Lebanon ' s southern border with Israel , be not in anyone ' s interest . in the Red sea , the Houthis ' attack against commercial shipping be patently unacceptable . we have already take action to deter Houthi threat , and we will not hesitate to take further action as need . there be no perfect formula for peace . what I can say be that Gaza should ultimately be under palestinian control , and we support a two - state solution that guarantee security and stability for both israeli and palestinian people . Mr Speaker , the Christmas period have not bring peace to the middle east . there have be no let - up to the intolerable suffering in Gaza and no end to the cruelty for hostage . million be displace , desperate and hungry . Israel continue to use devastating tactic that have see far too many innocent civilian kill , with unacceptable block on essential aid , nowhere safe for civilian , a grow humanitarian catastrophe , and now warning of a deadly famine . meanwhile , Hamas terrorist continue to hold hostage , hide among civilian and fire rocket into Israel . this dire situation must not continue . the need for a sustained ceasefire be clear . the fighting must stop urgently . we need a humanitarian truce now — not as a short pause but as the first step towards what will stop the killing of innocent , provide urgent humanitarian relief , ward off famine , free hostage and provide the space for a sustainable ceasefire so that fighting do not restart . I urge the Government to do everything they can to work for a sustained ceasefire , which will also ease the grow regional tension across the divide and avoid the catastrophe of a wide war . those risk be rise . will the Minister tell the House what step the Government be take to urge restraint in Lebanon and to see the full implementation of UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which would allow civilian on both side of the border to return home ? in the Red sea , all the targeting of commercial ship and international trade route that put civilian and military personnel in danger must stop , so I welcome the approach of the US , the UK , Germany and other to send clear warning to those responsible . will the Government ensure that this House have the time and space to scrutinise decision of any significance that may be require ? I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for what he say and the way he say it . he be entirely right about the plight of civilian catch up in this tragedy and the urgent requirement for humanitarian support to get into Gaza in much great number . the right hon . Gentleman call for a sustained ceasefire , and the british Government believe that be the right approach . that be why we put so much effort into securing agreement on United Nations resolution 2720 . the right hon . Gentleman be also entirely right to say it be important that the conflict be contain , and from the first moment Britain have move military asset and other equipment to try to ensure that we detect any likelihood of it spread more widely . the right hon . Gentleman mention in particular what be go on in the Red sea , and will understand that many government be commit to ensure freedom of navigation and trade . we be protect in that extent by international law . operation Prosperity Guardian be in full swing and HMS Diamond will join HMS Lancaster shortly . I call Chair of the Select Committee . thank you Mr Speaker . I welcome the £ 2 million for additional food and the special envoy that so many of we have be call for . first , now that Israel say it have dismantle Hamas in the north of Gaza , what be the plan to surge aid into the area , and what be Israel ' s plan to rebuild the territory ? secondly , will my right hon . friend give consideration to my proposal for an Israel - Palestine contact group that can start the hard work of a long - term peace process by kick off track 2 negotiation ? I thank the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her comment about a contact group , which we will look at extremely carefully . I be grateful for her welcome for the humanitarian aid co - ordinator , who be work flat out on these matter , and also for what she say about the additional funding for food . the problem at the moment be not a shortfall in funding ; they be in get the food and necessary humanitarian requirement inside Gaza . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker , and may I wish you and your staff a very happy new year ? of course , it have not be a happy new year for the 2 million desperate and terrified people trap inside Gaza , for whom 2024 bring further constant bombardment as well as the threat of famine and disease , with 50 , 000 people injure and almost 25 , 000 confirm kill . that prove that repeat plea from this Government and other for Israel to abide by international humanitarian law have be routinely ignore . Scotland ' s First Minister recently describe what be happen in Gaza as " tantamount to ethnic cleansing " , and South Africa have ask the International Court of Justice to urgently declare Israel in breach of the 1948 genocide convention for its continued killing of Palestinians , the destruction of home , the expulsion of people and the blockade of food , water and medical assistance . do the UK Government think that Scotland ' s First Minister and the Government of South Africa be wrong in their assessment of the current situation ? if they be wrong , how be they wrong specifically ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . the Government respect the role of the ICJ and we will of course follow what be go on with great care . we have always make it clear that it be up to the court to determine these matter and that all party must ensure that their action be proportionate and necessary and minimise harm to civilian . what have we learn since we last meet ? we have learn that Hamas be use north korean weapon . we have hear of further example of gender - base violence , we have hear example of hostage be keep in cage , and we have hear the testimony of a release 17 - year - old hostage , Agam Goldstein Almog , who speak of sexual violence and torture perpetrate against hostage who be still be hold . to top it all , in the last few day Jibril Rajoub , a Palestinian Authority representative and the secretary of Fatah ' s central committee , have say : " we view political Islam , and foremost among it the Hamas Movement , as part of the fabric of our struggle and our political and social fabric . " give what the Minister have say about the need for a two - state solution and the role of Fatah and the PA in that , what representation be he make to the PA about the radicalise language that they be use ? the Government urge everyone to exercise restraint in the language that they use , but I entirely accept my hon . friend ' s first point . like many other member , I see the extensive reporting in the New York Times about what happen on 7 October , during the recess , and it behove everyone to read it . as for the Palestinian Authority , Britain and our ally , and like - minded country , be do a great deal of work to try to secure a well arrangement for it when the fighting stop . as the Minister will know , a large number of child be be kill , but many other have be wound or maim as a result of the conflict . we now know that hospital treatment and hospital facility in Gaza have virtually collapse . a number of non - governmental organisation , such as Save the Children , be now work to evacuate child from Gaza to ensure that they receive urgent medical treatment in third country . will the Minister ask his official to convene a meeting of the NGOs to establish what further assistance our country could give in this respect , as we do in the case of Ukraine ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the plight of child on both side of this conflict . we be in close touch with the NGOs that he have cite , and we be also consider carefully what contribution a UK medical team could make . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , field hospital , both inside and outside Gaza , be an important aspect of that . they could have a dramatic effect , and use they would be much well than take people who be wound either on to ship or to other country . we be look at all these matter to try and address the precise problem that the right hon . Gentleman have describe . the conflict be clearly escalate , and no single power or , indeed , alliance be in full control , but what we should not lose control over be freedom of navigation and shipping movement in international water . surely a red line have already be cross because ship have be target . can my right hon . friend tell I what will happen if shipping be far target ? will we not just take out those missile in the air , but attack the silos from which they be launch ? my right hon . friend will have see that HMS Diamond have shoot down an attack drone , on , I think , the first occasion that the Navy have be in action in that way for 30 year . he will also have hear what the Government have say : like many other country , they have make it crystal clear that we will not accept the fettering of the international right of navigation , and all those involve in try to frustrate that should hear those word . just today , medical aid for Palestinians have report that , along with the International Rescue Committee ' s emergency medical team , it have be force to withdraw and cease activity at Al - Aqsa hospital — the only function hospital in Gaza ' s middle area — as a result of increase israeli military activity around it . there seem to be a repetition of the dismantling of health service that we have witness in the north in the south and middle of Gaza . can the Minister tell we whether the Government ' s support for the continue bombing of civilian and civilian infrastructure will now apply in every conflict , or whether it apply only in relation to palestinian civilian and palestinian hospital ? the hon . Lady know very well that all party must ensure that their action be proportionate and necessary and minimise harm to civilian , and it be in that context that we seek on all occasion to urge the israeli Government to adopt those three key criterion . I call Sir Alec Shelbrooke . there will not be a single person in the House today whose heart do not break for the death of innocent civilian , which be a consequence of any conflict . be the Government have any discussion in the wide arab region to get Hamas to move away from their state aim of destroy Israel and to ensure that they disarm , which would allow a basis on which to bring this fighting to an end ? may I offer my right hon . friend my congratulation on his honour ? he be right about the importance of ensure that all pressure be put on Hamas to desist from these outrageous and horrendous proposal that make up part of its charter . the british Government , through a whole variety of different mean , do everything we can to prosecute that case . Said Zaaneen , a phd student at the University of Sheffield , have be trap in Gaza by the war . he be an extremely able student , who have a full scholarship from the university , and he be keen to continue his study . the Foreign Office have be compile list of those who wish to leave , but it be currently limit to dual national and their immediate dependant . I appreciate all the difficulty at the Rafah crossing , but would the Minister consider extend eligibility for the Foreign Office list to those palestinian national who , like Said , be in the middle of course at UK university , or will he at least agree to meet I to discuss the case ? I think the answer be for the hon . Gentleman and I to have a chat immediately after this urgent question , and we will see what we can do to help . woman and girl be report to have be rape or mutilate by Hamas in at least seven different location in Israel in a deliberate , systematic and premeditated way . hostage have be reportedly subject to appal sexual abuse , too . these be girl as young as 18 or 19 , and they be still there . what assessment have my right hon . friend ' s Department make of the emerge evidence document Hamas - style savagery ? what conversation have he have with the Red Cross , which should be stop at nothing to insist on access to these hostage ? I thank my hon . friend for her remark . our contact and heavy involvement with the Red Cross and Red Crescent be happen daily . in term of her core remark , it be the british Government ' s endeavour to ensure that there will not be impunity for those who commit these horrendous crime . no matter how long it take , we will do everything we can to ensure that that impunity do not exist . the israeli Defence Minister have set out proposal for the post - war governance of Gaza involve a multinational taskforce work with Palestinians to restore peace , order and normality . what be the british Government ' s assessment of those proposal ? we greatly welcome all constructive proposal , and we welcome the point that the israeli Minister have make that when this dreadful conflict be over , Gaza must be run by Palestinians . overcrowding and inadequate food , water , shelter and sanitation — the World Health Organisation have already warn that these be ideal condition for disease to spread . what step be my right hon . friend take to support partner on the ground in Gaza to help prevent the outbreak and spread of disease ? my hon . friend be entirely correct . there be a huge danger that , as a result of insufficient food , appal sanitation and inadequate shelter — make bad by the winter rain — these condition will persist , and that be why we be intent on try to get the number of truck that get into Gaza up to 500 a day . it be also why we have deploy this medical team , work with other , to see what can be do immediately on the ground . the Israel Defence Forces chief spokesperson reflect on Saturday on the destruction of Hamas in the north of Gaza , before the IDF start to tackle Hamas more seriously in the centre and the south . he say : " we will do this differently … base on the lesson we have learn from the fighting so far . " what confidence do the Minister have that Israel will conduct its counter - insurgency operation in such a way as to abide by international humanitarian law ? it be not for I to second - guess the military tactic of what be go on in Gaza , but all I can say to the hon . Gentleman be to repeat the point I have make before : all party must ensure that their action be proportionate , necessary and minimise harm to civilian . member of the israeli Government have express their desire that settler should return to Gaza at some point after the conflict . away from the terrible massacre take place in that awful conflict zone , the situation in the west bank continue to deteriorate . in a very welcome move , the UK Government announce that they would bring in travel ban on violent settler , but do the Minister agree that in order to deter this activity , which be worsen by the day , something more draconian may be need ? would he please look at institute immediate ban on trade with settlement ? I can tell my right hon . friend that his first point , about the importance of these matter , be well understand by the Government . on his second point , that be not the policy of the Government . he will be aware that we be oppose to boycott , divestment and sanction — that be the position of the Government . senior representative of Israel continue to use language endorse genocide against Palestinians . Prime Minister Netanyahu say that the IDF would turn Gaza into rubble , and a senior leader in the israeli army have say that , in Gaza : " there will be no electricity and no water … there will only be destruction " on lbc radio last week , the israeli ambassador advocate the full destruction of Gaza and say that there be " no alternative " . last week , I write to the Foreign Secretary to ask he to condemn her genocidal word , but he refuse . will the Minister now condemn her remark and commit to take the strong possible action against she ? no , but I can tell the hon . member that , in respect of the humanitarian difficulty that he have identify , we be do everything we can to try to secure unhindered humanitarian access , and we will continue to do so . give that Hamas will never accept a two - state solution , do the Minister agree that any two - state solution must exclude Hamas — or any rename successor — from any role in the government of Gaza after this horror be all over ? there be clearly no place in any future settlement for Hamas and their vile ideology and terrorist action . the two - state solution must be drive forward by people of good will on all side . last week , when the israeli ambassador be tell she be make " an argument for destroy the whole of Gaza " , she reply , " do you have another solution … ? " genocidal rhetoric like that have be echo by a litany of israeli official and be match by a murderous bombing campaign that have now kill more than 23 , 000 Palestinians . that be why Israel now face the charge of genocide at the International Court of Justice . will the Minister expel the israeli ambassador for her genocidal rhetoric ? will he support the case against Israel at the International Court of Justice , and will he end his government ' s complicity in this atrocity by ban arm sale to Israel and demand an immediate ceasefire ? as I think the hon . Member will know , we be press for a sustainable ceasefire as well as humanitarian cause , and we be do everything we can in that respect . in respect of the wide matter about international humanitarian law , the judgment that the Foreign Secretary make on 12 December on these matter still stand . there have be no additional evidence since that time to suggest otherwise . regard the south african application into the International Court of Justice , our US ally have describe it as " meritless , counterproductive and completely without any basis in fact " . the irish Prime Minister also appear to have distance himself from it . will my right hon . friend say a bit more about his view on that application at the ICJ ? do he agree that use term such as " genocide " be actually an inversion of the truth in this context ? I do think that use such inflammatory term be unhelpful ; I agree with my right hon . friend about that . in respect of the ICJ , South Africa be entirely entitle to refer this matter . right hon . and hon . member will reach conclusion for themselves on whether something like that be helpful at this time . my right hon . friend , like I , will bear in mind that Israel be a state party to the Geneva convention of 1949 , so it be oblige to take action against those accuse of grave breach of international humanitarian law . because of the nature of israeli society , that be something that we would expect it to do , be those circumstance to arise . Blwyddyn newydd dda — happy new year . More than 23 , 000 people have die in Gaza since October and entire community have be raze to the ground . while the International Court of Justice have a clear definition of genocide , there remain no legal definition of ethnic cleansing . will the Government act to ensure a definition of ethnic cleansing in law so that this legal test may be apply to the conflict ? I be sure that there will be plenty of time for these legal concept to be question and advanced , but the central aim of the British Government today be to get relief and humanitarian supply into Gaza , to help those who be trap there and who have be eloquently describe across the House this afternoon . too many civilian and child have die . a sustainable ceasefire be need urgently . there be concern about malaria , scabie and other disease , so as well as food and medicine will the Minister prioritise fuel for hospital and health worker ? there have be an increase in the amount of fuel get into Gaza , but my right hon . friend be right that it need to be distribute . we be look very carefully at how we can make progress on that . More than 22 , 000 Palestinians have be kill , two third of they woman and child . our own Foreign Secretary have warn Israel that civilian death in Gaza be too high . now a state have trigger the genocide convention , which will be determine by the International Court of Justice this week , yet Britain continue to grant weapon licence and to export weapon to Israel . do the Minister agree that it would be reckless to continue to grant weapon licence and to export weapon to Israel , as that could support a potential act of genocide and render UK Government official complicit in genocide under article 25 of the Rome statute ? the hon . Lady will know that Britain have one of the tough arm export regulation regime in the world . clearly , any new application would be consider by that very tough regime in the normal way . Hamas leader have long enjoy impunity , move freely between Turkey , Lebanon and Qatar , finance and amass international support for their terror activity . do my right hon . friend agree that this special treatment by those nation have result in Hamas accrue the capability that lead to the barbaric , evil and , frankly , medieval 7 October massacre ? will he ensure that more be do to clamp down on state that facilitate the strengthening of Hamas ? my hon . friend make a very good case . he be right that we must ensure that those who perpetrate the dreadful evil to which he refer be not able to do so again . happy new year , Mr Speaker . the Secretary of State have indicate that he be in contact with the israeli Government and be express the Government ' s view , but have he raise with they the prospect of widespread disease and famine among palestinian people in Gaza ? if so , have he receive any sympathetic response from the israeli Government that they be aware that how they be conduct their bombing campaign be likely to bring that about ? these discussion be go on all the time , and they be greatly assist by the British Government ' s appointment of Mark Bryson - Richardson , the humanitarian co - ordinator . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and other Ministers have be actively engage in make the point to which the hon . Gentleman refer , so he may rest assure that there be no lack of explanation from the British Government in that respect . we all want a sustainable ceasefire that lead to a last peace , but it be easy to forget that a ceasefire exist between Israel and Hamas on 6 October , and we all know what happen the follow day . do my right hon . friend believe that a sustainable ceasefire can ever be achieve while Hamas remain in place ? I hope that my hon . friend will forgive I if I do not speculate on his last point , but he be right that we need to work towards a sustainable ceasefire . we need yet more urgently humanitarian pause , because in order for there to be a ceasefire , both party must be willing to accept it . that be one of the reason why Britain go to such effort to ensure that council resolution 2720 be secure . the statement we have just hear really do not measure up to the need of the occasion : 22 , 000 people already kill ; 1 . 9 million displace ; thousand die in the rubble ; thousand of child die because of a lack of medical care and food ; and people die of starvation , thirst and hunger in the Gaza strip at the present time . can the Government not understand the anger around the world when they watch this happen in real time , and why so many people be very pleased that the Government of South Africa have take the initiative by go to the International Court of Justice to hold Israel to account for the death of so many wholly innocent people in Gaza ? can the Government not understand that and at least support the south african process ? the policy of the Government — support , I think , by those on the Opposition Front Bench — be to secure a sustainable ceasefire . the problem with the right hon . Gentleman ' s analysis , in my view , be that it do not take adequate account of the quite appalling event that take place on 7 October , when more jewish people be murder in a pogrom than at any time since the end of the second world war . the Government have say that there will be consequence if Houthi attack on international shipping continue . what will those consequence be , when will they start , and will they include both the Houthi rebel and their iranian backer ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . that point be separate from the conflict in Gaza , but she will have hear what the Prime Minister , the Defence Secretary and the Foreign Secretary have say , and she will have hear those remark echo by our ally . I very much hope that the Houthis and other will draw the right conclusion from that . the right hon . member talk a number of time about resolution 2720 , but the fact be that the aid be still not get through . there be not even sufficient bakery to bake the bread for the people and , as member have say , disease be rife in Palestine . how be we go to support the innocent people that Hamas be use as shield , and that the IDF be also use to attack Hamas ? how can those people have any sort of a life when so many have be kill so far and so many be now affect by the huge amount of disease ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the danger of disease , which I spell out a few moment ago to one of his hon . friend , but the critical requirement be to ensure that we focus on get additional support in . that be why we have support so strongly the route in from Jordan to Gaza , and why the British Royal Fleet Auxiliary have be take british and cypriot aid from Cyprus down to Egypt . recently , the israeli ambassador to the UK very candidly say that there be absolutely no chance of a two - state solution . have my right hon . friend work out whether the ambassador be speak independently , or whether she be reflect the view of the israeli Government ? if the latter be the case , do that not sound like a slap in the face for UK policy ? if it be the former — that she be make up her own view — how can she be rely upon as a faithful conveyor of the israeli Government ' s message ? my hon . friend will have note a variety of different comment that have be make by israeli spokesman and israeli Ministers , but it be very strongly the policy of the British Government , and many other government , that we should work , when this appalling conflict be over , towards a two - state solution where both Israel and Palestine can live behind secure and safe border . happy new year to you and your team , Mr Speaker . it be clear that any sustainable ceasefire will have to involve an accountability mechanism for the allegation of war crime , whether the taking of hostage , rape or genocide . now that there be the case before the International Court of Justice bring by South Africa , UK resident have a right to know the approach that their Government be take to that . I ask the Minister on 11 and 19 December to set out what mechanism for uphold international law the Government support . for the avoidance of doubt , will he now say that the Government have a position on the court and what role it will play , and whether he believe all party should abide by any outcome from it ? the hon . Lady be entirely right to talk about accountability mechanism . in this urgent question I have make it clear at least twice that the british Government be absolutely supportive of that and do not want any culture of impunity to pertain afterwards . I have spell out what the Government think about the reference to the international court . we respect the role of the international court , and we be follow closely what be go on . it be up to the court to determine these matter . whether or not it be helpful to launch that challenge at this particular point be a matter on which there will be disagreement on both side of the House . last week , I visit Kfar Aza for the second time . since I last go there four year ago , a massacre have take place . when I be at the kibbutz last week , I feel it be the close to evil that I have ever be . I meet the family of some of the hostage . I know that the British Red Cross and UN organisation be active on the ground in try to look after the welfare of child . however , that do not appear to extend to the hostage , one of whom be only 11 month old . will the Minister outline whether the Government be take any step to make sure that this be happen and that there be a strategy to ensure the welfare of the hostage ? my hon . friend be right to identify the agony be feel by so many of the hostage ' family , relation and love one . some 130 hostage remain in Gaza , and we be work closely with more than 20 country to help to secure their release . it be probably not helpful for I to give a run commentary in the House , but my hon . friend may rest assure that we be do everything we can to secure their early release . I hear what the Minister say early in response to my hon . friend the Member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) and a government back Bencher about the International Court of Justice , but I wonder whether he have have time to read South Africa ' s 84 - page application — it be rather damning , and some lawyer say it be a strong application . I agree with the Minister that it be for the court , not politician , to decide whether there have be a genocide . however , if he have have time to look at South Africa ' s submission , do he at least agree that it seem , prima facie , that Israel have commit some serious breach of international law in Gaza , for which it must be hold accountable ? it be not for I to exercise that judgment . the truth of the matter be that I have not read all 84 page , but I have be brief on they . it must now be leave to the court to reach its determination . I welcome the Government ' s role in send more aid , secure the opening of the Kerem Shalom cross and secure UN resolution 2720 , alongside my right hon . friend ' s rightful focus on what we can do to help the dire health and hunger situation in Gaza . how confident be he , however , that the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill will adequately reflect widespread concern about illegal and violent israeli activity in the occupy palestinian Territories ? I think that must wait until Wednesday . the Government do not believe that public body should be able to waste public money pursue their own foreign policy , and I be sure that these point will be properly tease out on Wednesday . in respect of the very difficult humanitarian situation , which my hon . friend rightly describe , the inadequate shelter be make bad by the winter rain that we be see , and there be a real danger of disease spread . that be one reason why Britain have deploy a medical team to see what we can do to help with this desperate situation , particularly in Rafah but also throughout Gaza . Israel be commit war crime on a daily basis in Gaza . we have see the forced displacement and collective punishment of Palestinians , starvation use as a weapon , healthcare facility and journalist target , and much more . as we have hear , South Africa be now take forward a legal case against Israel in the International Court of Justice . if , as it could , that court quickly issue an order for Israel to immediately suspend its military operation , will the Government uphold that order by finally — finally — call for an immediate ceasefire , as many of we have be demand ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the policy of an immediate ceasefire be not share by either the Government or , indeed , those on the Opposition Front Bench . in respect of the work of the court , let we wait and see what the court decide . he ask I a hypothetical question , and I think we should wait and see what the court say . it be now almost 100 day since Hamas commit their evil atrocity in Israel . also , 130 hostage be still hold in captivity by Hamas terrorist . the international Red Cross have not have access to those hostage , the old of which be over 75 and the young under one year old . what action be my right hon . friend take to ensure that the international Red Cross can insist on see the hostage and look after their health ? my hon . friend be right to focus on the appalling agony and plight of the hostage . as I say early , I do not think it be helpful to rehearse in the House precisely what we be do , but he may rest assure that we be in continuous contact with the Red Cross and do everything we possibly can , along with our ally , to try to secure the hostage ' release . the IDF claim that as many as 8 , 000 Hamas terrorist have be kill , while at the same time there be report that Hamas be train child to take their place . the position of the more than 100 hostage still be hold by Hamas look incredibly precarious . will the Minister outline what progress can be make and how the UK can ensure that those people can be release and Israel can be in a position to begin to seek peace ? do the Minister believe that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have a role to play in that peacemaking ? the answer to my hon . friend ' s final point be yes , and he set out with great eloquence the issue and problem face by the hostage in this appalling situation . he will have hear what I say to other hon . member in that respect . before we reach a ceasefire — something need soon rather than later , accord to many of my constituent — two doctor in Bolton , Dr Samir Naseet and Dr Ibrahim Hamami , have ask what preparation we be make to prepare the ground for the post - ceasefire period by lead on volunteer medical practitioner go to Gaza at that time ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work in this respect : I know how much work he have be do with community in his constituency who be engage with Gaza . I will take careful note of the point that he have make . I think everybody here condemn the heinous attack by Hamas on 7 October and the taking of hostage , and we all want their safe and immediate release . but that do not excuse the brutal , indiscriminate and disproportionate violence that the IDF be perpetrate on innocent Gazan civilian . our world must operate on a rule - base system , and that include our ally . give the scale of casualty , may I press the Minister on whether he and the Government will support — not come to a decision on — the ICC ' s investigate potential war crime and make all evidence available to it ? the hon . Lady will have hear what I have say about any culture of impunity . in respect of her central question , all I can do be reiterate the point I have already make that the british Government be insistent that all party must ensure that their action be proportionate and necessary , and that they take account of civilian harm . hundred of Stroud constituent be contact I about a ceasefire and many understand it be complicate by Hamas be terrorist and their threat to repeat the rape and murder of 7 October . but we all want to see the protection of civilian , the conflict to end and the hostage to be release . as my right hon . friend have say , the UK and the Foreign Secretary have lead call for a sustainable ceasefire . will he set out the condition that be necessary for a sustainable ceasefire to be achieve ? my hon . friend will have see extensive comment on that and she will also have follow the development of Security Council resolution 2720 , which Britain be effective in ensure be agree . a sustainable ceasefire be one that enable we to get relief into Gaza and we be do everything we can to try to achieve that objective . the only way this war be likely to be bring to an end be through Government pressure — US pressure on the israeli Government , and the arab country play their part in apply pressure on Hamas . in the absence of such pressure , can the Minister , who have a good track record on campaign against genocide , certainly in relation to the International Court of Justice case of the Gambia against Myanmar , look at how that ICJ case on genocide prevention can be use to apply pressure and prevent the israeli Government from indiscriminate attack on civilian ? the hon . Lady may rest assure that we , together with our american ally and other , be seek to exert pressure on those involve in this conflict in the way she describe , but I caution she against see any analogy between the Gambian - lead case at the ICJ and the south african case over Israel and Gaza . National Security Minister Ben - Gvir issue a call to encourage the migration of Gaza resident as a solution to the crisis . Finance Minister Smotrich call for Palestinians to leave Gaza and make way for Israelis who could " make the desert bloom " . what step have the UK Government take to ensure that Palestinians will be able to return to their home in Gaza as soon as condition allow , in the light of those recent comment by israeli Ministers and those by the israeli ambassador to the UK , who call for Gazans to emigrate ? I be most grateful to my hon . friend for her question . the Government have make it absolutely clear that there can be no resettlement of Palestinians outside of Gaza : those who live in Gaza before must have the right of return and the British Government have be unequivocal on that point . the human suffering unfold before our very eye be absolutely horrific and heart breaking : ten of thousand of innocent Gazans lose their life , 1 . 9 million displace and only last week the Israeli National Security Minister talk about " the emigration of hundred of thousand from Gaza " , as part of a post - war vision . will the Minister condemn his israeli counterpart for seek to permanently displace Palestinians from their home , confirm that Members of the israeli Government be advocate for breach of international law and agree that the action of the israeli state contravene the genocide convention ? as a first step , will he call for an immediate ceasefire , so that we can bring an end to the conflict and treat those people who be suffer ? the hon . Lady will be aware of the argument for a sustainable ceasefire that be propagate by the Government and support by the Opposition Front Bench . she be entirely right about the suffering and , in respect of her first point , she will have hear what I say to two of her hon . friend . I wholeheartedly welcome the £ 2 million the UK be provide for vital food aid , and I welcome the Minister ' s comment that he continue to lobby Israel to reduce barrier to aid get into Gaza , to the people who need it most . will he reassure I and my constituent in Aylesbury that his Department will continue to keep food aid and medical aid to Gaza under review , and will redouble its effort to work with neighbouring country to ensure that aid get where it be need most ? yes , Mr Speaker , I can give my hon . friend that assurance . he refer to the £ 2 million that be specifically allocate to the convoy from Jordan , but he should be aware that the contribution Britain be make be far more extensive and include four air flight into el - Arish and the naval operation I describe , in addition to what we seek to do in open the new route from Jordan . northern Gaza lie in ruin . the Minister , when he be on the Back Benches , say in 2022 that Aleppo have be " bomb back to the stone age " and speak of " indiscriminate attack on hospital " and " massive breach of the rule of war and of international humanitarian law " . — [ Official Report , 15 March 2022 ; Vol . 710 , c . 835 . ] the then Minister of State , now the Home Secretary , speak on the syrian situation in 2020 , say that nearly 300 civilian — not 23 , 000 civilian — " have be kill in Idlib in Aleppo since 1 January … international humanitarian law continue to be ignore , with civilian infrastructure be hit probably as a result of active targeting … the UK have condemn … these flagrant violation of international law and basic human decency . . . we have repeatedly press — include at the UN Security Council — for an immediate … ceasefire . " — [ Official Report , 24 February 2020 ; Vol . 672 , c . 23 . ] the Minister have say today that it be not for he to decide what be a war crime . why be this government so quick — and rightly — to condemn Russia ' s war crime , but not Israel ' s war crime ? the british Government and indeed the opposition stand up for international humanitarian law and condemn breach of it whenever they take place . that be why from this Dispatch Box , throughout these terrible day since 7 October , we have consistently appeal to everyone to stand by international humanitarian law and obey what it say . last week I also visit the region . be my right hon . friend aware that South Africa be geopolitically move towards Iran and openly support Hamas ? indeed , its Foreign Secretary say that Israel do not even have the right to defend itself . it be in danger of become a terrorist proxy . as a former Attorney General , I can say that South Africa ' s case at the Hague have no legal merit whatsoever . Israel ' s action be in lawful self - defence . the case be a dangerous political stunt that the United States have already criticise . do my right hon . friend agree that his Majesty ' s Government should do the same and criticise South Africa ' s action ? the South Africans be entitle under the rule to refer the matter to the International Court of Justice in the way that they have and , as I have repeatedly say , there will be different view across the House on whether it be helpful to do so at this stage . in respect of what my right hon . and learn Friend say about South Africa , South Africa be a pluralist democracy and there be many different voice that come out of it . Britain have a close , deep and abide historical relationship with South Africa and we give our advice to the south African Government whenever we have the opportunity to do so . the Minister say israeli military action should be target on Hamas leader and operative . he know well than anyone that it be not . it disproportionately kill civilian , include child , journalist and health care and aid worker . what step be the Government take to restrain Israel from break international law , and will he concede that end trade with illegal settlement be , as a matter of fact and law , unrelated to boycott , divestment and sanction ? in respect of the discussion to which the hon . Gentleman refer , I can assure he that the british Government hold those discussion all the time . he will know that the Prime Minister have speak to Prime Minister Netanyahu at least four time and meet he in Israel towards the end of October . he have meet President Herzog , the ruler of Qatar , King Abdullah , President al - Sisi , Ant ó nio Guterres , President Mahmoud Abbas and Mohammed bin Salman from Saudi Arabia . those argument and discussion be go on , and above all we make the point that people must abide by international humanitarian law . last week the israeli ambassador in London say the quiet bit out loud when she imply that the israeli Government be try to totally destroy the Gaza strip . have the Foreign Secretary haul she in to explain that this Government oppose that policy , or be it the case that this Government be comfortable with that position — just as they seem to have be comfortable , alongside the US Administration , with the total and utter slaughter of innocent Palestinians over the last three month ? the british Government make their view very clear at all time ; I have just give the hon . Gentleman a list of all the different people the Prime Minister have be engage with since this awful conflict start . we make consistent and clear point , all of which be question in this House . whatever the rhetoric we still sometimes hear , I know the Minister will agree that there be absolutely nowhere in this conflict that be safe for child . far to the answer he have already give to my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and the hon . member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , may I ask he to spell out how his humanitarian strategy , and the aid that he be try to get in to the area , will respond to the desperate need of the child who be affect ? we be try to ensure that 500 truck a day get in to provide the humanitarian aid the hon . Lady be talk about . we be also try to do everything we can to ensure that there be additional health and hospital capacity inside Gaza , as well as just outside ; we do not think it be sensible for people to be take offshore , but they need to be treat inside Gaza where possible . in every respect , whether on medicine , food , shelter or the capacity to provide additional and more detailed medical help , we be do everything we can to advance those objective . give that the death toll of Palestinians in Gaza be over 22 , 000 and that at least a third of those death will involve child , do the Minister still believe that the Israel Defence Forces response to the 7 October atrocity , in which 1 , 200 israeli citizen be murder , remain proportionate ? I really do not think that the equation that the hon . Gentleman make between barbaric death in that way be one that stand very close scrutiny . he will have hear what I have say consistently throughout this statement about the role that Britain be take to try to improve a desperate situation . every time plea be make to exercise restraint , Netanyahu double down , so that 22 , 000 mostly woman and child death and non - function hospital have now become the norm . two of his Ministers say that the forcibly evict Palestinians can resettle elsewhere — that be ethnic cleansing . be we not just greenlighte a leader who be already unpopular before all this and who care less about pinpoint accuracy and international law , as he promise , than cling on now as a war hero ? the longevity or otherwise of the Prime Minister of Israel be a matter for the israeli people . on the hon . Lady ' s point about Palestinians be allow to return to Gaza , she will have hear what I say : the British Government totally oppose any question of resettlement of Palestinians outside Gaza or the fettering of their right to return when this dreadful contest be over . it be not good enough for the Government to keep call for Israel to abide by international and humanitarian law when there be overwhelming evidence that it be not . by contrast , the Government have be very clear that Russia have be breach international humanitarian law in Ukraine and have call out the bombing of civilian — indeed , the bombing of a child ' s playground . why the double standard ? be it credible to continue with they ? the hon . Gentleman draw attention to the point that I have be make — that we be always stand up for international humanitarian law ; it do not matter where there be breach . we condemn breach of international humanitarian law and seek to hold to account those who break it . the Minister have support a two - state solution , with Gaza under palestinian control , but the proposal table last week by the israeli Defence Minister be very different , envisage a subsidiary status of some kind for Palestine . how in practice do the Minister envisage the two - state model be take forward once the conflict end ? the right hon . Gentleman be entirely correct to say that a number of proposal be be generate , some of which be be give voice at this moment . but the critical thing be that , when this dreadful conflict cease , there will be a moment for the political track to assert itself . what we now need to see be that political track , when it can start , have real force and real strength and listen to the wide number of constructive voice to try to make sure that we make progress . he will remember that the progress make at Oslo follow the second intifada . we must pray that when this dreadful conflict be over there will be an opportunity for a strong political track to assert itself . the Minister himself acknowledge that the spectre of famine be stalk Gaza . I applaud his aim to restore the pre - war level of 500 or so truck go into Gaza to deliver humanitarian aid , but will he tell we how many truck actually go through in the last 24 hour ? be it true that in some case truck be wait up to 15 day for clearance and that truck be take out of the convoy of aid because one item have fail security check ? if so , what can be do to make sure that truck queue to deliver aid be take through the border and reach their intended beneficiary as quickly as possible ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . currently , around 150 truck a day be get in — [ interruption . ] that is , as she be indicate from a sedentary position , entirely inadequate , but we be try to make sure that the number rise to 500 . although I say in my opening remark that there be a fear of famine , it be not our assessment at the moment that famine have arrive . but there be acute starvation and hunger , and it be that that we be try to combat at this stage . the Minister have refer multiple time to the application of international law . what definition of proportionate , targeted and minimising be the Government apply if they consider the action of Israel to be in compliance with all of those ? how many child have to be kill before the Government stop the linguistic gymnastic and call for an immediate ceasefire ? the hon . Gentleman will have hear what I say about the importance of a sustainable ceasefire . he will have hear much the same from the official Opposition . as we show at the United Nations , we be work towards achieve a sustainable ceasefire . in the run - up to that , we want to see humanitarian pause that be as long and as immediate as possible . that be the policy that we will continue to pursue . on 11 December , along with other parliamentarian , I hear the harrowing eyewitness account of Dr Ghassan Abu - Sittah , a british - palestinian surgeon who have recently return from Gaza . he speak of the desperate state of the healthcare provision there , with a lack of essential supply and no morphine for patient after surgery . he speak of treat child , who he believe have phosphorus burn , with wash up liquid and vinegar , and without painkiller . he believe that medical team need to be allow to set up in - field hospital , and that the most critically injure patient need to be allow to leave Gaza . on 7 January , israeli authority deny a request by the World Health Organisation to deliver urgent medical supply to the central drug store in Gaza city and al - Awda Hospital . will the Government put pressure on Israel to allow the delivery of those vital supply , and will the Government call for a permanent ceasefire ? I have set out the reason why call for a permanent ceasefire be not , in our opinion , the right way to proceed . we need to call , as the United Nations resolution do , for a sustainable ceasefire , and we need to address the problem , which the hon . Lady set out so clearly , in the way that we be : by try to get more humanitarian supply and support into Gaza , and to move towards the sustainable ceasefire that I think everyone agree should take place . we know that woman and child make up about 70 % of the more than 22 , 000 people who have be kill in Gaza . that be a horrific number , and should be call such . we know that the 7 October attack see woman and young people bear the terrible brunt of the violence , which continue . there be now serious implication for the treatment of woman and child in future , include in other place . that future must mean a sustainable , peaceful two - state solution . do the Minister recognise the particular impact on innocent woman and child , and the urgent need , therefore , for a ceasefire to protect they now and in the future ? what specifically be he do to deal with the disproportionate impact on innocent woman and child on the ground ? I recognise entirely what the hon . Lady say about the plight of innocent woman and child catch up in these horrendous circumstance . that be why Britain be work with our ally to try to improve the level of humanitarian access , so that we can help the people who , as she so eloquently set out , be suffer at this time . the suffering in Gaza over the last three month have be intolerable . I have speak with many constituent about how unbearable it be to see , day after day , innocent civilian , particularly child , be kill . we urgently need to get to a sustainable ceasefire . beyond that , a long - term peace will need a determined international effort to deliver a two - state solution , with Gaza as part of a future palestinian state . what discussion have the UK Government have with international ally about the future of Gaza once the fighting have come to an end ? the hon . Gentleman correctly set out the challenge and the requirement for we all . the british Government , at the diplomatic and political level , through ministerial engagement not just in Israel but throughout the middle east , be seek to advance precisely the objective that he so coherently put . have the Minister make clear to the israeli Government his criticism of the comment of the israeli ambassador in which she explicitly reject a two - state solution , what have the response of the israeli Prime Minister be , and do the Minister accept that if that be the policy of the israeli Government go forward , Israel will have effectively end any possibility of long - term peace in the region ? the hon . Gentleman will know that there be many different voice come out of Israel . it be perhaps a matter of surprise that the ambassador choose to express herself at this point in precisely that way , but he will be aware that the policy of the British Government be to support a two - state solution . that have always be the policy . it be the policy of both Front Benches and one that Britain be bend every sinew to make sure that we achieve . the israeli Government have demand full control of the Philadelphi corridor , the land border between Gaza and Egypt . as the Minister himself say early , it be the main aid corridor for UK and international aid into Gaza . the egyptian Government be reportedly oppose to the proposal due to the effect on the country ' s sovereignty , so how concerned be the british Government about the israeli Government ' s demand in respect of the Philadelphi corridor ? the hon . Gentleman will have see the progress that have be make on other form of access . I have mention specifically the convoy from Jordan , two of which have now reach Gaza , and the maritime support that Britain be provide to bring cypriot and british aid into Egypt . we be confront the difficulty in secure humanitarian support for those who desperately need it , and do everything we can to overcome they . the level of death and destruction in Gaza be horrify and completely unacceptable , include bombing of a refugee camp on Christmas eve , which even the israeli Government have admit be grave error . that be why the like of I have be call for , and vote for , an end to the violence . do the Minister agree that we should call for a humanitarian truce , which could be use to secure a sustainable , permanent ceasefire and an end to this conflict ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that we be seek humanitarian pause , and we hope that we can reach a sustainable ceasefire . that be the policy of the Government , and it be the policy that be echo at the United Nations . he will also want to reflect on the fact that Israel have an absolute right to exercise self - defence , but it must do so within international humanitarian law . young woman just out of school remain in captivity , face rape and sexual violence as a weapon of war by Hamas , and we know that Hamas remain a barrier , rather than a conduit , towards a two - state solution . on the other side , senior politician and the israeli ambassador now feel the confidence to be able to declare that a two - state solution be off the table , completely rule out the position that the Minister articulate . do he not share my fear that his refusal to condemn the comment of the israeli ambassador , and his continue to say that we support international law when it be clear that it be be break , will give the Israelis the sense that , secretly , we support the approach they be take ? as friend of the Israelis , we must be much strong in condemn what they be do . nothing secret be engage here . we have be very clear about exactly where we stand , even when it be not very popular across the House : we will stand up for a sustainable ceasefire , seek to get a political track and use Britain ' s diplomatic skill and clout , which be much respected in the region , to try to approach a political settlement that honour the two - state solution . I be not sure there be very much between what the hon . Gentleman and I be say today , but that be the endeavour in which the british Government be engage . it be pleasing to hear the Minister say that Gaza must be run by Palestinians and that there should be no forced resettlement of Palestinians . I be deeply concerned by the comment make by the israeli ambassador condemn the two - state solution . far to the response that the Minister give to my hon . friend , will he outline whether there be an international coalition for a two - state solution ? how powerful be this international coalition ? how much influence do it have over Israel , and what be Britain ' s role within it ? throughout all the difficulty , there have be a solid , constant refrain that there have to be a two - state solution , with both Israel and Palestine live in peace behind secure border . if the hon . Lady read the speech make at the United Nations by many of the country to which she refer , I think she will draw hope from their consistency . over Christmas , I hear from a constituent whose sister and her sister ' s four child be stick in Gaza . if there be a ceasefire , it might be easy for they to leave Gaza . if the UK be prepare to offer humanitarian visa to relative of UK citizen who be in Gaza , it might be easy for they to leave . what be the Minister ' s message to my constituent , her sister and her sister ' s young child who be trap in Gaza ? it be difficult for I to comment on a specific case but , if the hon . Gentleman wish to discuss it with I after this urgent question , I would be happy to see he . he will know that 300 british national have be able to leave , thank not least to the hard work of the brilliant young man and woman who be work in the emergency centre at the Foreign Office in London . a small number remain , but we be work literally night and day to make sure we do everything we can to look after our citizen and their relation . the Minister mention Oslo in response to my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . the sad truth be that Prime Minister Netanyahu never really support Oslo and a two - state solution , and Hamas definitely do not . the two have thrive off each other ' s absolutist position over the past few decade . for those of we who do believe in Oslo , in the peace process and in two state for two people , what happen next really matter . the Minister say he want to secure well arrangement for the Palestinian Authority after the fighting end . what do he mean by that ? the Foreign Secretary have engage with both the Palestinian Authority ' s Foreign Minister and President Abbas . Britain want to support the Palestinian Authority in far develop the sinew of statehood that will be require if there be to be a two - state solution , as I hope there will be one day . I very much agree with the analysis in the first part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question , and it be now for Britain and other country to do everything we can to develop those ability within the Palestinian Authority so that they can properly exercise power , governance and representation in Gaza in due course . in the light of Tzipi hotovely ' s statement on lbc radio that the destruction of Gaza should continue and be extensive , why have the Government not condemn those word , which draw back on her previous comment about a two - state solution ? what be the Minister go to do , because this be inconsistent with everything he be say at the Dispatch Box ? no one want to see wanton destruction , which be why I have be very clear about international humanitarian law . I also hope the hon . Lady would assert that , give the horrendous event of 7 October , Israel have a right to self - defence . that be what Israel be seek to exercise in track down Hamas and stop their ability to repeat what they do on 7 October , as Hamas ' s leader have make clear they wish to do . I be struggle to understand what the Government ' s response be , apart from surprise at the use of extremist language . what chance can there be for the humanitarian truce that be need now , and for a sustainable ceasefire and a last peace , when extremist view be utter not just by terrorist organisation but by some Ministers and diplomat represent the israeli Government ? many wild statement have be make , some with which member will agree and other with which they will not , but the british Government ' s purpose be to achieve a sustainable ceasefire and to meet the immense humanitarian need . it be then to lift people ' s eye , when this terrible conflict be over , to the possibility of peace that a political track can deliver . a great many of my constituent write to I on a daily basis demand that the Government change their position to deliver a ceasefire , but on the point about language , when israeli Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Gvir say that Gaza should be essentially free of Palestinians , the Government , along with european counterpart , correctly condemn they , but when the ambassador in London call for Gaza to be flatten even more than it already have be , they say nothing . why ? I have explain the Government policy in some detail both in respect of tackle the humanitarian need that so manifestly exist and in develop the political track when this conflict be over , and I very much hope that the hon . Gentleman and his party will feel able to support that . the UN have describe Gaza as a " graveyard for child " ; it be report that more than 9 , 000 have be kill and thousand more severely injure . those child who have survive face a bleak future , with limited access to aid as bomb continue to rain down on they . many have lose their parent and their entire family . I hear the Minister ' s early response , but can he explain in more detail why the Government support unaccompanied child flee Ukraine but can not set up similar support for child in Gaza ? I do not think that the two situation be analogous , but I do think it be very important that we do everything we can to help the child and the other in Gaza whom the hon . Lady describe , and we will continue to do exactly that . far to that question , we know that child be seven time more likely than adult to be kill by blast injury and that 1 , 000 child have lose one or both leg in the last three month in Gaza . the scar that Gazan child be bear from this war will be long - last , so do the Minister agree that to have that two - state solution — that long and last peace — we need to step up as part of an international community to defend Gazan child ? the plight of Gazan child will weigh heavily on all decent people on all side of the argument be express in the House this afternoon . the Government will continue to do everything we can , but in term of the long - term point the hon . Lady make about the two - state solution , all of our diplomatic and political effort be bent towards try to secure that . after almost 23 , 000 civilian death , include almost 10 , 000 child , many observer be describe the atrocity in Gaza as a genocide . I take the Minister at his word on his belief that we need to see a two - state solution . however , last week we hear Bezalel Smotrich , the Finance Minister , describe the need for voluntary emigration from Gaza and israeli occupation and resettlement of Gaza , and we hear Prime Minister Netanyahu and Ambassador hotovely describe what they want to see , which be the outright destruction of Hamas and the palestinian people . I think we need to be honest : when Netanyahu call for a total victory , he want to see the annihilation of the palestinian people , doesn ' t he ? I do not think that a close observation of Mr Netanyahu ' s remark would sustain that view . the point the hon . Gentleman be make underline how important it be for people to be moderate in their language as we seek to move through this dreadful crisis , both in humanitarian term and ceasefire term , to the point beyond , when there can be a political track with some hope of success . finally , I call the ever - patient Mary Kelly Foy . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . be the Minister aware that before Christmas a sniper murder two woman — a mother and a daughter — inside the Holy Family parish in Gaza ? the Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem state that the woman " be shoot in cold blood inside the premise of the parish , where there be no belligerent " . Pope Francis have condemn the attack , as have the Archbishop of Westminster ; will the Government do so ? we be not clear about the full fact of what happen . we have of course hear what the Holy Father have say and what other have say as well , but the fact that any innocent person lose their life in these horrendous circumstance be something which the whole House will deplore . I thank the Minister of State for take so many question and the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , for stay the course . that conclude the urgent question and I ask Members wish to do so to leave the Chamber as swiftly and as quietly as possible . NHS Winter Update with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the winter pressure face the national health service and social care , as well as the impact of the ongoing junior doctor ' strike . the NHS employ 1 . 3 million people and the social care system a furth 1 . 5 million people . together , they treat and care for ten of million of people every day . we all know that winter be the most challenging time of the year for the NHS and social care , as our workforce have to tackle the pressure create by cold weather and seasonal virus . to put our health and social care system in a strong position head into winter , this year we start prepare early than ever before . in January last year , we publish our recovery plan for urgent and emergency care and provide £ 1 billion of dedicated funding to boost emergency capacity . the plan commit to deliver 5 , 000 new permanent staffed bed . I be pleased to update the House that more than 3 , 000 be already in place in December , and in the come week NHS England will meet the 5 , 000 pledge and make sure that it have almost 100 , 000 core bed ready when covid and flu peak . our recovery plan also pledge 10 , 000 virtual ward bed so that more patient can be monitor safely at home , away from hospital . I be pleased to update the House that we have deliver more than 11 , 000 virtual ward bed , and they have be a vital service for eligible patient over the festive period . we have boost our ambulance service with £ 200 million of additional funding , put new vehicle on the road , improve response time and get crew out and about for more hour . in recognition of the importance of patient be discharge promptly from hospital when it be safe to do so , we have make sure that every acute hospital in England have access to a care transfer hub , bring together team from the NHS and social care to speed up discharge , back by an extra £ 600 million for social care . to help prevent the spread of winter virus , we bring forward flu and covid vaccination , protect the most vulnerable and make they less likely to require hospital treatment . but no matter how thorough our preparation be , winter will always be the most challenging time of the year for our NHS . that be why it be extremely regrettable that the British Medical Association ' s junior doctor committee have choose to strike not once , but twice at this time of year . it have also choose to strike for an unprecedented length of time , put profound pressure on hospital and GP surgery throughout the country . before Christmas , the BMA ' s strike cause the cancellation of almost 90 , 000 appointment , some of which will have to be reschedule for a second or even third time . that be in addition to the 1 . 1 million appointment that have already be affect since strike begin in December 2022 . this be not just another statistic ; there be a person behind every one of these appointment , who may be in pain or distress and who now must wait long for the care they deserve . last week , a member of the bma leadership say " strike action benefit absolutely nobody . " they be absolutely right on that . the ongoing strike be cause more appointment to be cancel and more worry for patient , and be put a significant strain on staff . during December ' s and this week ' s strike , the NHS ' s priority have be to protect patient safety . resource have be channel into urgent and emergency care , include vital neonatal and maternity service . huge effort be make to make the most of the work day between Christmas and new year , because throughout any strike action , it be crucial that every patient who need urgent medical care come forward as normal . we continue to face challenge , and strike have stretch emergency care , but thank to the meticulous hard work in local trust in prepare for strike , as well as to the huge personal sacrifice that clinician and staff be make to pick up the slack , emergency care have largely hold up and the system have cope under the circumstance . staff across the NHS deserve our sincere thank for the heroic effort they have make throughout the unprecedented strike . I thank the doctor , nurse , paramedic and all frontline staff who have come into work to support each other , deliver care and protect patient ; the consultant , include member of this House , who be work extra hour , cancel their holiday or even come out of retirement to safeguard patient safety ; the manager , administrator and NHS leader who be work day and night to make sure that the right staff be in the right place to protect patient safety ; and all those work in social care , from local authority staff to care worker and carer , who have rally round to support hospital . I know that work do not stop when the strike stop . nhs staff will begin turn their attention to recover from the impact of the industrial action , restart elective treatment and improve the flow of patient through emergency department . the junior doctor committee ' s choice to strike at this time of year mean that that work must now be do under additional pressure , as staff move to catch up from industrial action as well as tackle the impact of cold weather , covid , flu and noroviru . I want to find fair and reasonable solution to industrial action . one of my first act as Health and Social Care Secretary be to bring in the British Medical Association for talk to end these long - run dispute , as well as meet representative for Agenda for Change union who speak for frontline staff , include nurse . we have reach agreement with union that represent consultant and specialty doctor on offer to be put to their member . those offer will modernise contract , realign pay scale and improve doctor ' career progression , while deliver value for the taxpayer and protect the hard - win progress we have make to halve inflation . consultant and specialty doctor be pause strike action while member vote on the offer , with the result of both ballot expect shortly . the Government and bma agree that they be the good deal available to we , and I very much hope that member will vote in favour so that those positive change can be make and we can move the NHS forward . on junior doctor negotiation , the talk that begin in November have be progress with the bma junior doctor committee . the talk be constructive , explore a range of proposal that would improve the work life of doctor across the NHS . I be therefore extremely disappointed when the BMA turn its back on the negotiation before they have conclude to call the damaging strike that we face today . the Government will not negotiate with the BMA while strike action be under way and patient safety be at risk . every strike be hugely disruptive for our NHS . the NHS and patient safety can not be switch on and off on a whim . I do not believe it right to negotiate with union while they be be unreasonable and some of their member be walk out of hospital at the busy and most challenging time of year for patient . I remind the House that the junior doctor committee ' s headline demand of a 35 % pay rise be simply unaffordable for taxpayer . last summer , we accept the recommendation of the independent pay review body in full . that mean that junior doctor receive average pay rise of almost 9 % in their September pay packet — some of the most generous increase across the entire public sector . meet the 35 % demand would stoke inflation just as we as a country have halve it , burn a hole in the pocket of family up and down the country , and it would be totally out of step with the pay rise award to other dedicated public servant and employee throughout the private sector . staff across the public sector have agree fair and reasonable deal on pay ; only the junior doctor committee have repeatedly walk away from talk . let I address the issue of NHS leader ask some junior doctor to return to work when patient safety be at risk , in what be know as patient safety mitigation or derogation . as of 9 . 30 this morning , 40 patient safety mitigation have be submit during the current round of strike , and two have be accept by the BMA . nhs leader , many of whom be themselves member of the bma , have decade of combined experience . they know their patient and they know their rota , and they would ask for mitigation only if they be absolutely necessary — in , for example , a child ' s emergency department . they be wholly independent of government : it be for they to make those decision . I trust they and I trust their judgment . that be the reality , and that be the truth about patient safety mitigation . one of the reason why I come into politic be the NHS and what it have do for I and my family . that be also one of the reason why I be a Conservative . this be a Government who have deliver record NHS funding , the first ever NHS long - term workforce plan , and 50 , 000 more nurse for our NHS . we be provide the NHS with the doctor it need for the future by double the number of medical school place , open five new medical school and pioneer one of the world ' s first medical apprenticeship . we have also support doctor by make change to pension for those at the very top of their career path — at that point , that be the bma ' s no . 1 ask , and a policy that the opposition seem to oppose . those be not the action of a Government who be turn their back on the NHS , as some have declare . they be the action of a Government who be build a health and social care system that be sustainable for the long term . to do that , we must put the strike behind we and move forward together , because the NHS belong not just to the junior doctor committee : it belong to we all . it belong to the million of people who rely on its being there when they need care , as well as the million of taxpayer who pay for it . for their benefit , it be time for the member of the junior doctor committee to show that they be serious about do a deal . they have legitimate concern about their work life , and a fair and reasonable deal can be reach , but call damaging strike be not the way in which to achieve that . early this week I say that if they call off their damaging strike action , I would get round the table with they in 20 minute . I be , of course , extremely disappointed that they refuse my offer , and continue to refuse it — the strike be ongoing as we speak — but if they come to the negotiating table with reasonable expectation , I will sit down with they . this Government have a clear , long - term plan for the NHS . our recovery plan in elective , emergency and primary care can improve access to treatment , transform service , and give patient more choice in and control over their care . our long - term workforce plan will give the NHS the staff it need to thrive for decade to come , our social care reform will build a well care workforce to support our grow number of old people , and by create the first smoke - free generation we will reduce long - term pressure on our health service . we have eliminate the long wait , but we have not yet make a significant enough reduction in waiting list . to do that , we need the junior doctor committee to come to the table and do a deal that be in the interest of patient , in the interest of our NHS , and in the national interest . then we can build an NHS that be not only strong today , but strong for our child and grandchild . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance site of her statement and wish she and the whole House a happy new year . unfortunately , the NHS be begin 2024 the same way it end 2022 — on strike . this week ' s industrial action by junior doctor be the long strike in the history of the NHS at the bad possible time , because even before the strike this week the NHS be struggle to stay afloat this winter . hospital be declare critical incident before the strike . patient be wait dangerously long for ambulance and in A & E before the strike . ambulance be queue up outside hospital for hour to hand over patient before the strike . the truth be , before the strike , and before the pandemic , the NHS have be face winter crisis after winter crisis as a direct result of the Conservatives ' failure — their failure to train enough staff , their failure to arm the health service with modern technology , and their failure to reform . in January last year , the Prime Minister publish an urgent and emergency care recovery plan , promise " the large and fast - ever improvement in emergency waiting time in the NHS ' s history " . instead , heart attack and stroke victim be wait even long for an ambulance , and a & E waiting time be the bad they have be all year . the Prime Minister promise 800 more ambulance , but the Government have now admit that they be just replace exist ambulance . he promise that 50 , 000 patient a month would be treat in virtual ward , but in reality it be few than 8 , 000 patient . be not the truth that the Conservatives have once again send the NHS naked into the winter , and patient be pay the price ? give how ill - equip the Government leave the NHS , and give the desperate plea from NHS leader for the strike to be resolve , why on earth do the Government choose to sit back and let this damaging strike action go ahead ? not only do the Health Secretary allow talk with the junior doctor to collapse and refuse to reopen negotiation until tomorrow , when the damage will have be do ; at the 11th hour , as junior doctor stand on the edge of this strike action , she choose to push they straight into it . in what way be it helpful for the Secretary of State , in a series of broadcast interview , to patronise junior doctor by rebrande they as " doctor in training " ? a junior doctor can have 10 year ' experience under their belt ; they do not expect to be troll by Ministers who have be in office for barely 10 minute . in the Prime Minister ' s interview on the BBC yesterday , we see why he have allow the strike to go on for so long without intervene himself : he be use industrial action as an excuse for the state his party have leave the NHS in after 14 year . he would rather blame NHS doctor and nurse than take a shred of responsibility himself . meanwhile , patient can not get an appointment , can not get the surgery they need and can not see a gp , NHS dentistry be decay , and the NHS itself be on life support . while he be brag about all the part of the NHS that be not currently on strike — that be how low he now set the bar — he seem to have forget that nurse be still in formal dispute . be he so uninterested in our nation ' s health service that he do not know ? be he try to pull the wool over the voter ’ eye ? or be he just another Tory Prime Minister asleep at the wheel as he drive the country off a cliff ? there be one thing that the Prime Minister get right in his interview with Laura Kuenssberg yesterday . whether the question be on the NHS , immigration or the economy , his response be the same : ask the Leader of the Opposition . it seem that even this conservative Prime Minister know that if we want serious solution to the problem face the country today , there be only one place to look , and that be the Labour party . rise — order . the hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know that people do not give way during a statement . patient be sick and tired of wait — wait for ambulance , wait for a GP appointment , wait for their operation and wait for a general election that can not come soon enough . why do the Conservatives not get out of the way and let labour fix the mess they have make ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman back from his world tour promote his book . it be very nice to meet he for the first time across the Dispatch Box . while he be away in sunnier clime , he may have miss what be actually happen in Wales , which interestingly have be describe by the Leader of the Opposition as the " blueprint " for how Labour will run the NHS , be it ever to come into government . interestingly , in the labour - run Welsh NHS , people be almost twice as likely to be wait for treatment , and they be wait an average of five week long for NHS treatment under Labour in Wales than they do in England . indeed , the number of patient in Wales seek treatment in England have increase by 40 % in two year because of the experience that people be have in Wales . I will just correct the hon . gentleman on a couple of other thing , too . just to help he understand , we be deliver the 800 new ambulance — those be new ambulance — at pace at the request of the NHS , just as we be put in 5 , 000 extra bed in hospital across England , because we understand the point about capacity and we want to help the NHS look after people in a timely and efficient manner . I will also just correct he again on the doctor in training point . I be surprised he have come on to that at this point , but have he speak to his friend in the BMA , he would have understand that that be the phrase that the bma be use . it have pass a motion to stop use the phrase " junior doctor " . [ interruption . ] yes , the BMA pass a motion . the hon . Gentleman refer to doctor , but he perhaps do not understand the complexity of contractual negotiation . the phrasing be use to denote those professional who be still on formal training pathway who be not specialty doctor or consultant . that terminology have be agree with the bma . in term of the strike themselves , I note — I know that those sit behind I on the Government Benches note it , too — that the hon . Gentleman do not condemn the strike . I be happy to give way , if he would like to confirm whether he condemn the strike . unfortunately , he have miss his chance to do so , but I suspect that everybody , include the patient at home wait for appointment , will see the labour shadow Minister ' s failure to condemn these strike . that be because , in line with public sector strike more generally , the Labour movement will always prioritise union harmony over patient safety . that be not what we as conservative do ; we will always put patient safety first . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . happy new year . the Secretary of State will know that it be far from all doctor in training who have take part in this strike . in my trust , Hampshire Hospitals , it be just over 60 % , and the average across the south - east be little more than 50 % . many doctor be hard at work this past week care for their patient . do my right hon . friend share the concern of many in the health service that the long this dispute drag on , the more we lose the good will of the consultant who have be fill in and the more we do serious damage to the career pipeline that see today ' s doctor in training become tomorrow ' s consultant ? I thank my hon . friend for ask that question and for note the enormous effort that clinician across the NHS have go to in order to cover these strike . we be conscious of the personal impact that have have for many , and clinician have have a very tough few christmas . we be all collectively hope that this Christmas would be just a little bit easy for they , but sadly these strike have a real impact on people who be work to pick up the slack from junior doctor not turn up . I be grateful to everyone who have go into work , who have work extra shift and who have cancel time off with their family . we must find a fair and reasonable solution to this industrial action , which be precisely why I be so very disappointed that the BMA junior doctor committee choose to walk away from these discussion . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . a very happy new year to you , Mr Deputy Speaker . our NHS face an unprecedented winter of pressure , with inflationary cost , increase viral infection and staff shortage . while the SNP Scottish Government have act with £ 300 million to cut waiting list and negotiate with NHS staff , prevent even a day of strike action , NHS England be undergo a junior doctor strike — the long in the history of any NHS in the UK . no one want strike action , but it work , which be exactly why the Tories want to ban it . in fact , this Tory Government appear to be work to make this winter hard by cut NHS capital funding , undercut attempt to recruit new staff and not get round the table with trade union , instead blame the bma and junior doctor . be the decision to underpay NHS staff and stoke strike the policy of this Health Secretary , or be she be force down that path by a Chancellor who be continue his decade - long war on junior doctor ? I imagine that the hon . Lady have see that we accept in full the pay review body ' s recommendation last year and , as of September , junior doctor and doctor in training have receive on average an 8 . 8 % increase on their basic salary — they also earn money on top for antisocial hour , work overtime and so on . in addition , they have pension contribution of some 20 % , which be a rare employment benefit across both the public and private sector . in the future , I want to find a fair and reasonable settlement with the junior doctor , as we have be able to reach with consultant and specialty doctor , but we can not do that if junior doctor be on strike . that be why it be so very disappointing that they walk away from the discussion . I be sure that we all wish to welcome Sir David Evennett back to the House in rude health . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s factual statement on the state of the NHS in her winter update . will she confirm that she would return to the negotiating table immediately be the BMA to call off these very damaging strike ? I welcome my right hon . friend back . I have say throughout this that I be extremely disappointed that the committee choose to walk away from discussion . I also think that there be a lot more to discuss apart from pay — I have make it clear that I would like to look at other aspect of their working condition — but , unfortunately , the junior doctor committee walk out . the strike action have have a real - term impact on patient . we need to find a fair and reasonable solution , but I will not do that while the junior doctor committee maintain strike . it will have to come to the table with reasonable expectation and change their mind on the validity of strike action . we have have 14 Tory winter . one would have think that they would learn by now that the real crisis in our NHS be that social care be not up to scratch . a quarter of patient in my local hospital be wait for social care . as a result of jam the back door , the front door become inaccessible to so many patient . after all these year , when will the Secretary of State publish a proper plan for social care , or will she leave it to my right hon . friend to take over ? I be so sorry , I do not know who the hon . Lady be refer to . on the Conservatives ' plan , at the 2022 autumn statement we announce up to £ 7 . 5 billion of additional funding — an historic increase — and we do not stop there . this summer , we announce an additional £ 600 million , which bring it up to £ 8 . 1 billion of additional funding over two year . that will support our care workforce , and the majority of the funding will end up in the pocket of the amazing people who provide care and support to the patient we be all concerned about . I declare my interest as a member of the BMA and an NHS consultant who have work during the industrial action . let we make no mistake that these strike be cause suffering to patient , both adult and child . the derogation process have not work because , as the Secretary of State say , the BMA have not return junior doctor to work when they have be ask to — where there have be a risk of dangerous harm to patient . the first duty of any Government be to protect their citizen , so when will the Secretary of State bring forward the minimum service level to protect patient from these dangerous strike ? first , I sincerely thank my hon . friend . I be in contact with she over the weekend when she have come off a very long shift in emergency care , look after patient locally . I have nothing but admiration for she and the many , many other people who step in at short notice to cover urgent and emergency care in our NHS during the strike . on minimum service level , she will know that we have already introduce they for ambulance service — something that be oppose by the Labour party — but we have just close the consultation on minimum service level in hospital and we be , of course , carefully analyse the response . again , the point that 40 — four zero — patient safety mitigation be make by NHS leader yet only two be grant by the BMA , be very , very worrying when it come to how seriously the BMA be take concern about patient safety . a few week before Christmas , NHS boss be here in Parliament briefing mp that , notwithstanding their preparation for the winter crisis , the one thing that would push they to the brink would be a rise in respiratory illness . now here we be : case of flu , covid , RSV — respiratory syncytial virus — and whooping cough be all rise rapidly . a strong public health intervention by the Government could have prevent that from happen . when will the Government get serious about public health intervention such as vaccine uptake , air filtration and protect the immune compromise to stop people get so ill so often for so long ? I thank the hon . Lady for re - emphasise the critical timing of the strike action and the impact it have on patient . we know that winter be difficult . it be not just difficult for our healthcare system . around the world , when cold winter strike , it have physiological impact on people with underlie health condition . we also have a rise in infectious condition , too . as she will appreciate , that be precisely why , on the advice of clinician , we bring forward the flu and covid vaccination programme to try to protect the most vulnerable in our society . but again , the timing of the strike be so very cynical , because their impact and tail will , I be sorry to say , have consequence beyond tomorrow ' s stop date . I be really concerned when my right hon . Friend mention the number of request make to the BMA for certain duty in hospital and that only two have be respond to positively . that be really concern for patient . contrast that with the behaviour of Nick Hulme , the act chief executive at Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital , who have transform its A & E in term of waiting time . we need to promote such leader , but we also need to unreservedly condemn the action of the bma junior doctor committee and get the strike over and do with . I thank my right hon . friend for her work in the Department . she know only too well the difference an inspirational leader can make to a local NHS trust , and at regional or national level . manager who be good and commit to their local area , who work with their clinician and other healthcare staff to try to look after patient all year round , have be put under the most enormous pressure over the last few week because of the strike . I thank every single one of they for do what they can to safeguard patient safety . as I say , I trust their judgment . if they have put patient safety mitigation in , it be because they consider , in their professional judgment , that they be need . the public health director in Hull publish her report recently . she talk about the double jeopardy that my constituent face : from the most disadvantaged community , they have short life in far poor health . at the end of last year in A & E , patient be less likely to be treat within the four - hour target than anywhere else in England . why be that after 14 year of a Conservative Government who be committed , apparently , to level up ? I be extremely grateful to the right hon . Lady , who will know that our constituency , albeit not necessarily in the same region , nevertheless share similarity , be relatively close to each other . the work and the progress make on urgent and emergency care be precisely because we be concern about , for example , ambulance response time and hospital discharge . we work with NHSE to bring together the urgent and emergency care plan and , for example , bring about 800 new ambulance on to our road and about 5 , 000 more core bed into the NHS to try to address those need . unfortunately , the strike action that we have see over recent day have very much militate against those effort . we all accept that winter be a very difficult time for the NHS , and through the urgent and emergency care plan we have work with NHSE to try to meet the demand that she so rightly put forward . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to reach a fair and reasonable solution to the strike . Worcester go into this winter with the delivery of a new emergency department and be able to deliver 21 bed - worth of extra capacity over the winter , but I have hear from the hospital today that it be still face intense pressure . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to the staff who be work around the clock to meet that pressure , and will she support the SWFT trust management as they work to address some of the key transport bottleneck on its site , in the interest of patient and staff alike ? my hon . friend set out clearly the many pressure and factor at play in run emergency department and hospital at the good of time , when we be not in the middle of winter and face the pressure that it always bring on the healthcare system . I thank not only staff in his trust , but staff throughout the country for the work they have do over recent week to support the NHS and to bring treatment to patient . we be work hand in glove with NHSE regional and local leader to see whether there be practical measure that can be take to improve the flow through hospital . nhs winter pressure be have a huge impact on cancer surgery and other cancer intervention . in Cumbria , in the south of the county 25 % of those with a cancer diagnosis be wait more than two month for their first intervention , and in the north of the county 47 % be wait more than two month . we know that every month ' s delay in treatment mean a 10 % reduction in people ' s chance of survive . some 123 cancer operation have be cancel in the last year in our area . one reason be the lack of investment by this Government , and their predecessor of all colour , in radiotherapy . will the Secretary of State agree to meet I and conservative and Labour member of the all - party parliamentary group for radiotherapy , which I chair , to look at solve the problem by invest in the kit that Britain desperately need to save life ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will be interested to know that we have make cancer treatment wait time a key focus of our elective recovery plan , which have be back by an additional £ 8 billion in revenue funding across the spending review period . we have make progress by deliver record number of urgent cancer check , with more than 2 . 9 million people see in the 12 month to October last year . of course there be more to do , and I would be very happy to meet he and colleague across the House to discuss the practical way by which treatment can reach our constituent . he will not be surprised to know that cancer be a priority not just for I personally , but for the Government as a whole . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement ; there be a lot in it to welcome , but I particularly welcome the additional 11 , 000 virtual ward bed . hospital at home be hugely popular and we know it take pressure off our hospital . I thank all of the clinician who help to make that possible . can she confirm that it be her intention now to go far and roll it out to more hospital and more specialty , so that more patient can recover at home ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work in make that happen . he work very hard on virtual ward when he be a Health Minister , and they represent a real step change in how we treat people with long - term condition who can be monitor safely at home . they mean that people do not have to spend time in hospital , with all the pressure that can mean for we as individual . importantly , that also free up bed for other patient who need they . I be keen to roll the scheme out far . indeed , we have not just meet but exceed our initial ambition , which be why I can confirm that we have deliver 11 , 000 place in the virtual bed ward category . the BMA say that junior doctor ' pay have be cut in real term by 26 % through consistent below - inflation increase . if the Tories really care about this strike and about the NHS , would they not have avoid create the circumstance that make junior doctor so angry that they feel the need to go on strike ? do that not just show that you can not trust the Tories with the NHS ? the figure that the BMA relie on be in fact from 2008 , when the Labour party be in government for the first two year . the BMA cite a 35 % pay rise . just to clarify , independent organisation such as full Fact and the Institute for Government rely on the consumer price index measure , which show a difference of 11 % to 16 % . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will take into account the fact that we have already give graduate doctor , in their first year out of medical school , a rise of 10 . 3 % , and I be willing to negotiate far and consider additional settlement that be fair and reasonable to the taxpayer . be the Health Secretary aware that the impact of these strike on the Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust have see more than 7 , 000 appointment and operation cancel and several million pound in extra cost to the trust — and that be before the most recent strike . do she share my concern that the junior doctor be pursue an unreasonable pay demand and cause last damage to patient and the finance of the NHS ? my hon . friend be a brilliant advocate on the challenge face his rural and coastal community . we all know that geography be a factor in the difficulty of deliver healthcare in his corner of England , but everything the trust and clinician do be about try to improve healthcare for his constituent . I can not be the only one who feel uncomfortable at the image of some on the picket line last week singing while our constituent be struggle with cancel appointment and worry about urgent and emergency care time . I be very keen that we should reach fair and reasonable settlement with junior doctor , but in order for that to happen they must act reasonably , change their mind and call off the strike . recently , Tamworth have clarification that mental health provision at the George Bryan Centre would not be invest in . from now on , patient must travel to Stafford for crisis care . labour have pledge to recruit 8 , 500 more staff for community - base talk therapy in order to reduce waiting time and crisis . why have the Government not put in place a plan to recruit more NHS mental health staff ? we have — in the NHS long - term plan . we have set an ambition to grow the mental health workforce by an additional 27 , 000 staff between 2019 - 20 and 2023 - 24 . that be in addition to the at least £ 2 . 3 billion of additional funding a year by March this year . we be delighted to have our new community diagnostic centre , and of course our new A & E , under way in Scunthorpe . however , my right hon . friend will know that we be fight incredibly hard to prevent the loss of some of our hospital service . of the hundred of local resident who respond to my survey , over 98 % agree with I that we must not lose those service . do my right hon . friend agree that , in order for the NHS to provide resilience during the winter and the service that it wish to provide to patient , hospital boss need to listen carefully to what patient think ? indeed . I thank my hon . friend for all the hard work and advocacy she put in on behalf of her constituent . if I may , I will ask the Minister for Health and Secondary Care to visit my hon . friend ' s hospital to discuss with she the concern of local resident and to ensure that the trust be aware of they . two gps from Seaton , in my part of Devon , move to Australia to practise a little over two year ago . both be work as full - time GPs , with no gap in their career , and they now wish to return to east Devon to help ease winter pressure . reteste someone who return to England be lengthy , costly and bureaucratic , and it do not take into account practice in similar primary care setting . can NHS England not make it easy for UK - train gps work in Australia , New Zealand or Canada to return to general practice in England ? that be a very fair challenge , and I will look into it , give that the hon . Gentleman have raise it . the Labour party have be run the NHS in Wales for the last 27 year . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , highlight that he be frustrate with wait for ambulance , GPs and operation . I politely point out to he , and to other member , that my constituent in the Vale of Glamorgan , and people across the whole of Wales , be wait much long for ambulance , GPs and operation . in fact , a quarter of my constituent , and a quarter of people across the whole of Wales , be on an NHS waiting list . I advise my right hon . friend the Secretary of State that junior doctor and GPs be also in dispute in Wales , despite the claim make by Opposition Members . I therefore ask she to show some caution before take advice from her shadow . I will follow that advice with great enthusiasm . I have another statistic for my right hon . friend : the labour - run Welsh Government be hide 45 , 000 patient from their A & E waiting figure in the first half of 2023 , and falsely claim that they perform well than England . if that be the blueprint for how it run thing , we should all be very worried if Labour ever again form a UK Government . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , it be disappointing that the Secretary of State do not mention mental health in her statement . give the rise level of destitution and chronic bad housing in our country , mental health service have winter crisis too these day . what progress be she make in develop proper waiting time for people in need of mental health service ? I reassure the hon . Lady that the impact of mental health patient remain in A & E for any length of time , let alone beyond 72 hour , be genuinely a metric and factor that we look at very carefully , as we have do throughout the strike . we appreciate that A & E be not the right environment for most people who be suffer from a mental health illness or a psychotic episode , and we want to move they into appropriate care as quickly and safely as we can . with that in mind , I hope that she will welcome the fact that we be spend some £ 7 million for up to 100 mental health ambulance over the next two year , to try to ensure that people get the right care they need , when they need it . More than 160 project be be allocate funding in the community , include crisis caf é s and safe haven , so that hopefully people be catch before the crisis happen and they end up in A & E . I welcome the winter update from the Secretary of State . there be actually a winter update go on in South Leicestershire . will she join local NHS stakeholder there , and I , in encourage South Leicestershire ' s constituent to respond to the consultation on the future of the Feilding Palmer Hospital ? the deadline be 14 January . I would be happy to do so . I be pleased to hear of local NHS leader actively seek the view of the patient and community they serve , in order to ensure that their service be what the public expect from their local hospital , and from primary and secondary care service . I remember a former conservative Prime Minister promise to fix social care , yet I be still hear of too many patient who be medically fit for discharge be stick in hospital . this time last year we have a record high of about 14 , 000 patient stick in hospital who be fit for discharge . will the Secretary of State tell we what the figure be at the moment , and whether she expect it to go up or down before the end of the month ? we be make progress . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that that figure alter not just day by day , but hour by hour . we have be invest in social care package precisely because we understand the importance of be able to discharge people promptly and safely into the appropriate social care setting , which can have a huge impact on flow through the hospital . other factor can also have an impact on flow , such as practical measure for people who perhaps do not need social care help when they leave hospital . we be look at what we can do to improve those local factor as well . the hon . Gentleman be right to make the point that the social care system go hand in hand with our NHS and hospital care . that be why we have be so keen this year to inject extra investment into social care — to try to alleviate some of the issue that he rightly raise . the shadow Secretary of State seem to forget the 50 , 000 hospital bed that Labour close when they be in government — the thousand of mental health bed and the large number of ward they close , include at Goole and District Hospital . but I digress . I spend Christmas on duty as a first responder at the Yorkshire Ambulance Service — as the Secretary of State know , the Minister for Health and Secondary Care perform the same role at the North West Ambulance Service — so I can attest to the professionalism and dedication of our ambulance service and of our 999 dispatch centre and the clinical hub that support we at scene . ambulance crew bear the strain not only of winter pressure year in , year out , but of this doctor ' strike . I urge the Secretary of State to pay tribute once again to their work and , as I have say before in this place , to consider what we can do to expand community paramedicine , so that , as demography change and more old people be care for at home , more people can be treat at scene rather than be take to A & E . I pay tribute to both my hon . friend and my right hon . friend the Minister for Health and Secondary Care for their work as first responder . I would get into a lot of trouble in my own constituency if I do not mention the wonderful life — our community first responder , who get to the scene of road accident or emergency call before ambulance and conduct the most extraordinary and complex procedure very safely on patient when they need it . recently , I be pleased to visit the London Ambulance Service to see for myself what team work can achieve across an ambulance service and how these highly qualified and experienced individual can make a real difference to people ' s life and health after recovery . I send my sincere thank to everyone who have be work in those capacity in recent week and over the festive period . we have go from no winter crisis when Labour leave office to an annual winter crisis — and now a crisis all year round under this Conservative Government . patient satisfaction with the NHS be at a record low . instead of there be a blame culture , when will the Secretary of State accept responsibility for that appalling record ? I think the hon . Lady be claim that there be no winter under Labour , but perhaps that be yet another thing that do not quite stack up . I fully endorse her call for an end to blame culture , but point she to the real and practical measure that we have take to improve urgent and emergency NHS care . I assume that she join those on the Government side in condemn the unprecedented strike action that the junior doctor committee have call at this particular time of year . have chair more than 150 meeting between Gloucestershire mp and our NHS leader , this week I be hand over the baton to my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) . my two thought be , first , to share the Secretary of State ' s immense gratitude to everyone in the Gloucestershire Royal Hospital and our other service for all their continue , amazing work ; and secondly , to highlight that the big single impediment to reduce the elective surgery backlog — the hip , knee and much more of many of our constituent — be this continued strike by doctor in training . I be sorry , but the continue failure of the shadow Secretary of State to highlight whether he support patient or striker show an absence of leadership . will my right hon . friend confirm that the doctor in training , the doctor on strike , have already receive , in 2023 , a pay rise of between 8 . 1 % and 10 . 3 % ? I most certainly can confirm that — those doctor have already receive the rise . as I say , I want to continue discussion on more fair and reasonable settlement for junior doctor , recognise as I do how tough their job be and the condition under which they work . may I thank my hon . friend for the leadership he have show with his local trust and clinician ? I agree with he that the one thing we have not hear from the opposition be that they condemn the strike . they seem to prioritise union harmony over patient safety . Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital Trust have one of the most challenge A & E department in England , for a number of reason . in August last year , the Government award a grant of £ 21 million to provide extra bed to ease some of the issue in A & E , but those bed be not online and operational yet . what assurance can the Secretary of State give we that the measure that have be take to ease winter pressure will be in place to help people before the winter be over ? I will ask the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , to liaise with the hon . Lady directly . as I say , the late figure I have from NHS England , work with local trust , be that more than 3 , 000 of the extra 5 , 000 bed be in situ in December , and we expect the 5 , 000 deadline to be meet very shortly . I hope she will see that at local level in her hospital very soon . be not the rejection by the bma of derogation request make on the basis of patient safety dangerously irresponsible ? rather than Dr Laurenson , co - chairman of the junior doctor committee , say that the NHS hate doctor , it be past time that they call off this damaging strike action and put patient first . very much so — the NHS belong to we all , as I say repeatedly . it go without say that doctor be a critical part of our workforce . that be why , since become Secretary of State , I have want to have a good , constructive work relationship with all of the representative of doctor and the wide workforce . that be why I call in the BMA and " Agenda for Change " as soon as I possibly could , and I be pleased that I have be able to find fair and reasonable settlement with consultant and specialty doctor . I very much hope that junior doctor will call off their strike and come back around the table so that we can find solution for they too . the late period of strike action by junior doctor have be the long in the NHS ' s history . we have see trust declare critical incident and A & E department tell patient not to come in unless their life be under threat . can the Secretary of State tell I why the Prime Minister have not step in to resolve the dispute ? do he think it be not serious enough ? as I say early , strike have very serious consequence for the NHS . we can not pretend that the NHS can be switch on and off at whim . my one ask of the junior doctor committee be that it stop the strike so that we can return to the table . as the number of patient safety mitigation have reveal — by the way , it be the high number of patient safety mitigation that local NHS leader have ever ask for , because of the unprecedented length and timing of the strike — and because the BMA have refuse even those derogation , with the exception of two , we have to get to a place where it return to a more reasonable frame of mind and come back to the table with more reasonable expectation , so that we can try to find a solution . I will not put patient ' safety at risk : I have to enable NHS England to make preparation and continue the work it be do day by day , hour by hour , to safeguard hospital and patient during this very damaging strike action . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will be as concerned as my constituent in Kettering that , for every three day of junior doctor strike , the cost to Kettering General Hospital be a staggering quarter of a million pound , with hundred of operation cancel or delay for patient in pain . in confirm that the 35 % pay demand be both unrealistic and unaffordable , will she call for junior doctor to return to their post so that that money can be well spend on reduce waiting list and improve patient outcome ? my hon . friend put it eloquently ; there be a real human cost to these strike action . it be why I do everything I could when we be in negotiation to try to find fair and reasonable settlement for junior doctor . I be very disappointed when they walk out , but we have to find solution for the sake of our patient and of all 1 . 3 million people work in our NHS across England . there have be some brilliant example of local trust , local clinician and other member of staff work really hard and pull together to cover these damaging strike , but all we ask of junior doctor be to come back to work , do their job and look after our patient . nhs waiting list have treble since the Conservatives come to power almost 14 year ago . the Prime Minister ' s pledge to cut waiting list have effectively be abandon , with the Government choose to blame NHS staff instead of fix the problem . be it not the case that the long we give the Conservative Government in power , the long patient in Slough and across our country will , sadly , have to wait ? waiting list be come down , but they be still too high . towards the end of last year , we have a period without any strike in the NHS . we see the waiting list fall by ten of thousand — indeed , by 65 , 000 — over the period of October , which show the impact of the industrial action . sadly , we know that more than 1 . 1 million appointment have be reschedule in the last 12 month . it be have an impact on waiting list and , for the sake of patient , we ask the junior doctor to come back to work . may I first thank Tracy Bullock , the chief executive of University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust , who have announce her retirement today due to ill health . we have be make significant progress in north Staffordshire with improvement to health service . nursing vacancy have decline significantly over the last year and £ 13 . 4 million have be invest in improve urgent and emergency care service , free up some bed , but what put all that at risk be these reckless strike . some 867 appointment at the Royal Stoke have be cancel , as have 38 operation . do my right hon . friend agree that all the progress we be make be put at risk by these reckless and unprofessional strike ? first of all , I join my hon . friend in thank Ms Bullock for her work and public service , and I wish she a speedy recovery . on the progress make in my hon . friend ' s local area , he be right : there be some really encourage sign for the future of the NHS . all the work that we have be do across all the recovery plan — whether it be for urgent and emergency care , primary care or elective recovery plan — be about embed progress in the future of our NHS in this year of all year , as we celebrate 75 year of its establishment . on the impact of the junior doctor ' strike , my hon . friend be right to refer to the number of new nurse and the progress that have be make locally . in fact , this year we have be able to announce that we have meet a manifesto commitment to recruit 50 , 000 more nurse . we make that promise in 2019 . we have meet it early , as well as the commitment to have 50 million more GP appointment than in 2019 — two manifesto commitment make , and two manifesto commitment keep . happy new year , Mr Deputy Speaker . More and more of my constituent be wait long and long for emergency care . in 2010 , the target for emergency care be 95 % of patient within four hour . the government water down that target to 76 % , and be not meet that . when will they meet their own target , and when can we expect to see 95 % of my constituent be see within four hour ? I hope the hon . Gentleman be inject the same anguish into the conversation that I imagine he be have with his local junior doctor , ask they to come back to work . of course , have junior doctor not work in hospital across the NHS have an impact — of course it do ; they be a vital part of our NHS . the attention of NHS leader , medical director and clinician over past week have have to be divert towards cover the strike action rather than make the sort of improvement and progress we all want to see across urgent and emergency care , in line with our recovery plan . happy new year , Mr Deputy Speaker . the majority of NHS staff at Southend Hospital be work incredibly hard . despite winter pressure and industrial action , they have use winter money to open a new ward , add extra bed space . however , the chief executive have write to tell I he be extremely concerned that approach 40 , 000 out - patient and in - patient appointment across the Mid and South Essex NHS Foundation Trust have be postpone since this industrial action start . this afternoon , we learn from the Secretary of State that doctor in training have receive above inflation average pay rise of 9 % , so be it not time that they simply get back to work , deliver the care my constituent deserve and pay for ? I thank my hon . friend . we know the figure for previous strike action , but sadly we will hear the true extent and impact of the strike action over the last six day later this week , and I suspect we will have even more miss and cancel appointment to add to the list she rightly set out . on the point about pay , the basic pay of a foundation year one doctor have rise by 10 . 3 % . once one take into account factor such as overtime and unsocial hour payment , that mean the average salary be £ 40 , 800 , a figure that I hope begin to reflect the importance we put on doctor and their role in the NHS . as doctor progress with their career , there be a good package of development and progress , culminate in the pay settlement , currently out to ballot with the BMA , that I hope consultant , who be at the end of their career and do so much to help train young doctor , will vote for . there be much work to be do , but progress have already be make on pay . that be why the decision by the bma junior doctor committee to call strike of such length at this time of year be so disappointing . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for respond to question , and my thank also go to those on the Opposition Front Bench . storm Henk the heavy rainfall follow Storm Henk have affect community across the UK , with the bad impact be see in widespread area across the midland , include in Leicestershire , Lincolnshire , Nottinghamshire and Northamptonshire ; in part of the west country , include Gloucestershire , Worcestershire and Warwickshire ; and in other area . part of the country have a month ' s worth of rain in the first four day of January , and that rain fall on already saturate ground . several of our big river system — the Trent , Thames , Severn and Avon — see record level , or close to record level , as they drain huge volume of rain from across their catchment . in the past few day , I have see at first hand the devastating impact that flooding can have on local community . this morning , I return from Alney island in Gloucester , which see the third high water level in the last 100 year . last week , I visit Nottinghamshire , where I meet resident in Colwick with my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) and speak to resident in Radcliffe - on - Trent with my hon . friend the Member for Rushcliffe ( Ruth Edwards ) , where unfortunately resident have to be evacuate to keep they safe . my thought be with all those who have be impact . over the weekend , the Secretary of State visit flooded community in Newark - on - Trent and Leicestershire . together , we meet farmer in Lincolnshire to see at first hand the impact of flooding in their area . we discuss what more could be do to support agricultural business to prevent flooding and minimise the impact of flooding in the future . I meet Henry Ward at Short Ferry , whose farm have be completely submerge under water , and we discuss just how devastating the financial impact can be . I also visit a primary school in Heighington , just south of Lincoln , that have be completely flood . the headteacher , the Environment Agency , Councillor Carrington , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) and I discuss next step to get the school reopen and the child back into their classroom . the Prime Minister be in Oxford yesterday , talk to those affected and thank the first responder for the fantastic job they have do over the past week to keep community safe . I echo those thank to the Environment Agency , emergency responder , local authority , internal drainage board and all volunteer for their tireless effort to keep our community safe right across the country . this be a severe weather incident . storm Henk cause high wind and large amount of rain across England last Wednesday — Met Office amber and yellow warning be in place across the country — and this be follow by heavy rainfall on already saturate ground , after a wetter than average autumn . there be now an improve picture across the country but , as we enter a dry spell , flood warning remain in place . we will continue to monitor the situation very closely . since 2010 , the Government have invest over £ 6 billion to well protect over 600 , 000 property from flooding and coastal erosion . over recent day , more than 75 , 000 property have be protect as a result of the Government ' s investment in flood defence . to date , unfortunately , 2 , 000 property across the country be record as have be flood . in the east midland , a major incident be declare in Colwick when the Trent peak at over 5 metre . in Leicestershire , 350 property be flood , include in Loughborough . in Lincolnshire , river level exceed 2000 ' s record on the Trent at Torksey lock . in Staffordshire , we see the high record water level in Burton - on - Trent , where the flood defence complete in June 2022 protect hundred of property . the Government begin plan for the elevated flood risk as soon as the Met Office forecast indicate an unsettled period of weather over Christmas and the new year . the Environment Agency start plan and prepare in the week before Christmas . river channel and trash screen be clear to prepare watercourse for flooding , and there be continue work to repair asset follow the damage cause by Storm Babet . the Environment Agency ' s incident team be double rostere , with the national duty manager lead regular planning and preparedness call with all area . the Environment Agency write to all member of Parliament in England to provide local contact and information for use in the event of a flood . over the last week , the Environment Agency issue 300 flood warning to community . it deploy more than 1 , 000 staff to affected community , set up 125 pump and put in place over 12 km of temporary and semi - permanent defence to protect community . it work closely with local resilience forum to manage the impact on the ground . my Department have be hold daily cross - Government meeting to ensure that we be do everything we can to minimise the impact on our community . over the weekend , the Government take swift action by activate the flood recovery framework early than usual to reassure people that we will step in . this support will provide immediate relief to householder , business and farmer affect by flooding . official in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities write to the chief executive of the eight county council that will be eligible , base on the datum on the impact so far : Leicestershire , Gloucestershire , West Northamptonshire , Warwickshire , Wiltshire , Nottinghamshire , Lincolnshire and Worcestershire . other may well qualify , and we be monitor the situation closely . flooded household in eligible affected area can apply for up to £ 500 , give they quick access to help with immediate cost . affected household and business will also be eligible for 100 % council tax and business rate relief for at least three month . through the property flood resilience repair grant scheme , eligible flood - hit property owner can apply for up to £ 5 , 000 to help make their home and business more resilient to future flooding . my Department have switch on the farming recovery fund so that farmer who have suffer uninsurable damage to their land can apply for grant of up to £ 25 , 000 , recognise the exceptional rainfall that have take place . small and medium - sized business , include farmer , can also apply for up to £ 2 , 500 of support from the business recovery grant to help they return to business as usual . the Government ' s UK - wide Flood re scheme will continue to provide reinsurance for those UK household at high flood risk . last year , that cover support 265 , 000 household policy , and more than 500 , 000 property have benefit since the scheme ' s launch . outside the immediate response , the Government continue to take action to protect community from flooding . since 2010 , we have invest more than £ 6 billion to well protect 600 , 000 property from flooding and coastal erosion . we be on track to spend a record £ 5 . 2 billion on new flood defence scheme in the current six - year period . that be double the spend in the previous six year . it include £ 100 million to support community that have experience repeat flooding , and last April the first 53 project set to benefit be announce . we have make £ 25 million available for innovative project that use the power of nature to improve flood protection , include action by farmer and land manager . I will announce the successful project shortly . we be invest more in maintain exist flood defence to help ensure that they be keep in good working order . the Government increase funding by £ 22 million a year at the last spending review , mean that funding reach £ 201 million last year and £ 221 million this year . the Government strengthen plan guidance on flood risk and coastal change in 2022 . this ask local authority to apply strict criterion to new development at risk of flooding before they be approve . in the year follow that change , 99 % of propose development comply with Environment Agency advice on flood risk . in conclusion , work with local partner , we have act swiftly to respond to the recent flooding and to provide funding support for the most affected . we will continue to lead the emergency response to flood incident as they occur . at the same time , we will invest for the long term to create a nation well protect against our change climate . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . storm Henk have wreak havoc across the country : thousand of home be severely damage , business have be devastate , and farm and crop have be destroy . my heart go out to all those affect . I join the Minister in thank the emergency service , the Environment Agency , local authority and volunteer for their response , work around the clock to keep people safe . about 2 , 000 property have be flood to date and much of the country remain under water , yet the Prime Minister do not think it be serious enough to call a Cobra meeting . the Government ' s failure to act effectively against the risk of flood have cost the economy billion of pound since 2010 . the Government estimate loss to be at £ 1 . 3 billion a year on average . with one in six home now at risk of flooding , homeowner must be horrify that the Government have do little more than stare out of the window and watch the rain come down , with the previous Secretary of State blame the fact that it come down from the wrong direction . while we can not stop the rain fall , we can and should do more to protect community , business and farm from the devastation of flooding . last October , the Environment Agency find that more than 4 , 000 english flood defence be rate " poor " or " very poor " , while the same agency be find to have underspent the budget that have be allocate to it by £ 310 million . that money should have be use to protect against flood damage . I visit Retford in Nottinghamshire and meet heartbroken family who have lose everything . that town be allocate £ 11 . 7 million for flood defence two year ago , but shockingly , less than half of 1 % of that money have actually be spend . the Government have clearly fail to put in place the robust co - ordination between central government and agency on the ground to ensure that people be keep safe in these circumstance , and devastatingly , work family be leave to pick up the piece . labour have propose a Cobra - style flood resilience taskforce to make sure that community be protect . it would meet every winter ahead of the peak season for flooding to co - ordinate flood preparation between central government and agency and local authority on the ground , identify area most at risk and make sure that allocate funding be use to build flood defence , dig out drainage system , dredge river and put in place natural flood management scheme , such as plant more tree upstream to help the land hold more water . enough of this Government ' s stick - plaster politic : we need to get ahead of the problem , not just clean up afterwards . community deserve the reassurance that if the bad happen , there be a plan in place to keep people , their home and their business safe , so will the Minister explain why the Government have still not fully map out which community around the UK be most at risk from flooding , so that appropriate support can be put in place ? will he confirm how much of the funding allocate for flood defence remain unspent ? when do the Government intend to upgrade flood defence that be find to be in poor and very poor condition ? will the Minister update the House on what conversation be take place with insurer so that people whose home be at risk from flood remain able to insure they fully ? will the Government convene a Cobra meeting to ensure that minister be work across all Government Departments to keep people safe ? let I pick up on the shadow spokesperson ' s point about Cobra . I be absolutely right in say that the Government hold a Cobra unit Cabinet Office meeting last Tuesday to promote cross - sector preparedness action , way in advance of Storm Henk take place , and cross - Government meeting , chair by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs as the lead Government Department for flooding , be hold on many occasion last week and throughout the weekend . there have be daily contact between DEFRA and resilience partner across the Government , include the Cabinet Office and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and local resilience forum also have preparedness meeting and be prepared to convene strategic co - ordination group to manage the local response . I know from my own visit last week and over the weekend just how quickly and efficiently the support have be roll out . I confirm to the House that since 2010 we have invest £ 6 billion to well protect 600 , 000 property against flooding and coastal erosion . we be on track to spend £ 5 . 2 billion on flood defence scheme in the next six - year period — that be double the £ 2 . 6 billion previously allocate and it be well protect more home . over the period of Storm Henk , 75 , 000 home be well protect as a result of this Government ' s infrastructure and the investment that we have put in place . the opposition refer to planting tree , but this government go far . we recognise that planting tree be one part — a single part — of the solution , but we be go much far by double the amount of investment from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion over the next spending review period . that include £ 100 million to support community that have experience repeat flooding . the first 53 project that be set to benefit be announce last April . over the period of Storm Henk , we have see the benefit of the work we do in 2022 to well protect Burton upon Trent , which have the high water level with the River Trent peaking . that be where our investment be work . we be also take swift action by roll out the flood recovery fund , which will well protect household , business and farmer . that be announce this weekend and the eight chief executive of the local authority it will benefit have already be write to . I congratulate the Minister and his colleague on their prompt action and the very responsive way in which they have handle inquiry from mps throughout the House whose constituency have be affect . the Minister do not mention Shropshire when he refer to those county that have be eligible for the flood recovery framework . I assure he that the bank of the River Severn , which I know he visit in Shrewsbury around Christmas , flood between Shrewsbury and Bewdley . only on Friday I visit a household near Highley station in my constituency that have water up to the door handle across the ground floor . a significant number of property be affect and I hope the Minister will consider the representation from Shropshire Council when they come through . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . before Christmas , I visit Shrewsbury to see for myself the positive impact that flood defence be have and to speak to Environment Agency representative . I be well aware of and look forward meet the caucus of 38 mp who represent constituency right across the River severn channel . I reassure my right hon . friend that I , my official and the whole Department be in close contact with the Environment Agency . we be monitor the situation closely . if we get to a situation where we need to expand the flood recovery fund even far , we will not hesitate to do so . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the thought of SNP Members be very much with all who have be affect by these event . I offer my thank to the emergency service , resilience partner and everyone who have assist in the day follow storm Henk . as I be sure the Minister be aware , there be a lot more to this than simply announce sum of money that will come through : it be also about deliver scheme to minimise the risk of future flooding event . will he commit to funding and deliver flood prevention and defence measure that not only keep pace with inflation but allow community to stand a fighting chance of get ahead of not just the increase risk but the increase frequency of such storm event ? of course , my thought go out to all those north of the border in Scotland who be impact by the severe weather event over the Christmas period . indeed , I be up in Angus and Fife over Christmas , and I see for myself the challenge of get back down on flood road . the Government continue to work with devolved administration to ensure that a level of interaction and communication be happen . I only wish that the Scottish Government would be as proactive as we have be in get the level of financial support to the family , household , business and farmer impact by the flooding event we have experience south of the border . I congratulate my hon . friend on his statement . I apologise for bombard not he but his predecessor with text message over the weekend about the importance of get support to business in Worcester . I be very pleased to hear what my hon . Friend say about the flood framework . may I commend to he the work be do for frequently flood community in particular ? just before Christmas , I be able to wield a spade and get work under way on flood defence for Toronto Close . my constituent in Diglis Avenue , who have be flood yet again for the fourth time in about six year , will be very keen to see some funding from that pot . I urge my hon . friend to work with the Environment Agency on any solution that could be provide to that particular frequently flood community . there be nothing more harrowing for people than their property be repeatedly flood . that be why I , work with colleague in the Environment Agency , be keen to ensure that frequent - flooding funding well help household that have be impact . I be more than happy to continue the conversation that I have be have with my hon . friend and neighbouring colleague , because I know how important this matter be . the Minister say that his thought and sympathy be with all those affected but , frankly , his word ring hollow . not only be the Government be fail to protect exist property — an estimate 4 , 000 flood defence be in poor or very poor condition in 2022 — but bad , minister be actively plan to pursue energy policy that will make extreme weather event bad . we be about to debate the obscene Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , which would create yet more new oil and gas licence . where on earth be the join - up thinking ? when will the Minister stop the excuse and introduce the ambitious climate policy that might just protect future flood victim , instead of just mop thing up at the end of the day ? back in 2010 , 40 % of all energy in this country be produce from coal ; now , we be at 1 % . the Government be take the reduction of emission incredibly seriously . we be the first major economy to set a net zero target in law , and we cut our emission by 48 % between 1990 and 2021 . couple with that , we be take more proactive measure , include by double the amount of funding for improve our flood - resilience programme from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion , to well protect more frequently flood community , business and homeowner . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for his statement and effort , and I thank the Secretary of State , DEFRA and people across Government for all their work in these challenging time . I pay tribute to the Environment Agency , the emergency service , local authority and volunteer worker for all that they do to keep people safe at this time . my hon . friend will know from our work together on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that our " Rural Mental Health " report address the impact of extreme weather event on people ' s mental health , in term both of the anxiety about be flood and the trauma afterwards . can he reassure people and community across the country that they will be support when the blue light leave and the water subside ? I absolutely can . when I be a member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , my hon . friend , I and other on the Committee do a lot of work to produce that worthwhile report . it be vital that the Government not only pay close attention to the immediate impact cause by flooding but provide reassurance to homeowner , business and those in the farming community who have be affect . we must also pay attention to negative implication , such as the effect on health and wellbeing . I be keen to ensure that we deliver on the recommendation of that report . my heart go out to all those affect by Storm Henk . of course , over the Christmas recess we also have Storm Gerrit , which include a tornado that cause significant damage through Dukinfield and Stalybridge in Tameside . these day , these be less freak weather incident : tameside as a borough have be affect by wildfire on the moor , flood from the River Tame and now by a tornado . what extra capacity be the Minister , along with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , put into bolster civil contingency and resilience in community so that local government can well tackle these not - so - freak weather event ? it be harrowing to see that tornado in Tameside over the winter , and many of we be shock as to the impact and stark devastation that it cause . it be important that the Government be work with devolved Administrations and local authority . I will do exactly that across Government as well , work with my colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that we be deliver for those one - off event rather than just for frequent occurrence such as flooding . I thank the Minister for visit Short Ferry in my constituency , which have flood several time . in conversation that I have have with farmer there in recent year , they have constantly say the same thing . they be feed up with the Environment Agency in recent decade not do its job in clear out the dyke so that the water can escape ; it seem to be prioritise the preservation of wildlife and habitat rather than get the dyke clear . that be what they say , and they want proper compensation for flood plain as well . there be a National Farmers Union report on that , and I be confident that the Minister will work with the NFU to get it do right . I thank my right hon . friend for his question and for contact I over the Christmas period to raise his concern , not only about the farm at Short Ferry . it be good to meet his constituent Henry Ward at the weekend to see the EA asset and the implication of the water flood his farm . I also see on that visit how the vegetation in the River Witham and the delph , which sit alongside it , need attention . as my right hon . friend will know , I be minded to look at option include dredging and remove vegetation in EA asset to ensure that we deliver a system that move water far down the system more efficiently , which well protect our farming community . I have see the report from the NFU and look forward to work with my right hon . friend , his Lincolnshire colleague and the NFU to try to get to some conclusion on that . in Cumbria , we sadly know only too well the devastating impact of extreme weather event and flooding , so I and all of we in Cumbria stand in solidarity with those reel from the impact of Storm Henk . I want to say something positive about the Minister ' s statement and what he have say in reply about farming . the worry that I have , which I think many of we have , be that farmer be still systematically at the bottom of the priority list when it come to tackle flood risk . can he tell we — he can do it later if he find that easy — how many farm have receive support for manage flood risk through countryside stewardship scheme ? in my area , will he agree to direct the agency of his Department — the Marine Management Organisation , the Environment Agency and Natural England — to act swiftly to support the Lynster Farmers Group to secure action to tackle flooding that threaten farm , livestock welfare , the Grange golf club and other local business by allow the channel of the River Winster to flow as it should ? I be happy to write to the hon . gentleman with the detail and figure he require , but I reassure he that the Government be take our farmer and the impact on agricultural land incredibly seriously . that be why this weekend we announce that farmer who have suffer uninsurable damage to their land will be able to apply for grant of up to £ 25 , 000 through the farming recovery fund . that be a step where we have go over and above what we have do before , and that be in recognition of the fact that the ground be absolutely saturate on the back of Storm Henk , Storm Babet and the constant rainfall we have have over the winter and autumn period . I have be out in our village in Rutland , Leicestershire and nearby Lincolnshire , whether that be Whitwell , Oakham , Greatford or Braceborough . we have have appalling flooding , with people evacuate from their home , water up our waist — you name it — and boat out get vehicle , animal and people to safety . my conservative councillor in Rutland have call for an urgent meeting of the council , but I be concerned that Rutland be not list in the area to be consider . can my hon . friend confirm whether Rutland County Council have submit its datum to the Environment Agency ? if it have not , I be gravely concerned that we be miss out on the urgent support we need . there be no doubt that Rutland should be on the priority list . I thank my hon . friend for contact I over the Christmas period to raise the ongoing concern in her constituency , not only from Storm Henk , but from the repeat rainfall we have have . I will look at and review all the flood area over and above the eight county council area that have already be announce to make sure that we be review any datum . I want to ensure that we be get datum in good time so that no one — business , householder and farmer — be miss out on fund because sufficient datum be not be provide . Brayton , Tadcaster and Chapel Haddlesey in my constituency have all face awful flooding in recent week . resident be leave in the lurch as agency would not take responsibility , and the fire service and local business , such as Campeys and UK Sandbags , have have to fill the gap . will the Minister consider at least the efficacy of implement a flood resilience taskforce at some point in the future so that we can deal more pre - emptively with these flood event when they do occur , through such measure as clear block drain , to give my constituent the reassurance they so desperately need ? I want to reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be already do that . the Government be work closely with our Environment Agency colleague , the local authority and our flood resilience forum to ensure that we be do exactly what he be ask for . the request be somewhat unnecessary because we be already do it . I be sure that the Minister will sympathise with my constituent who have have their home and business flood not only in the town of Tewkesbury , but down the river at Sandhurst and Longford . it have be a desperate situation , with road closure inconvenience many people . give that most of our problem tend to come from the fact that we be at the confluence of two main river — the Avon and the Severn — will the Minister have serious discussion with the Environment Agency about the potential benefit of river dredging ? it be talk about an awful lot , but it need look at closely . have be in Gloucestershire this morning , not too far from my hon . friend ' s constituency of Tewkesbury , I be well aware of the challenge that business , householder and farmer be face in his area . I want to be clear to the House that I be open to consider all option , whether that be dredge or remove vegetation from our ea asset , because we must make sure that , in addition to increase the budget from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion over the next financial period to improve our flood resilience , we be look at all option to make sure that our farmer and those who face crop loss be be impact positively by some different measure . the Minister will be aware that the River Severn , before it get to Shrewsbury , flow through North Shropshire . we experience severe flooding every year and have do for the last three or four year , although this year be not quite so bad . I have three question for the Minister on this topic . first , what discussion have he have with his colleague in Wales about manage the upper severn catchment and finalise the scheme to prevent some of that water from come downstream in the first place ? secondly , the surface water flooding have be appal over the last few week because the council do not have the money to clear the culvert and drain , so what discussion have he have with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities about that ? finally , the frequently flood allowance require a critical number of home in a community to be flood in order for it to be eligible . why be it not available to every home that be frequently flood ? just before Christmas I make a visit to Shrewsbury and I meet my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury and Atcham ( Daniel Kawczynski ) . we discuss specifically with Environment Agency colleague a wide plan with the 38 Members whose constituency form the River Seven catchment area for what we can do to well protect land both upstream and far downstream . those conversation be happen and I be engage with that . when it come to frequent flooding , we be always make sure that we be well protect as many home and business as possible . again , that be illustrate by the quick action this Government take at the weekend in announce the flood recovery scheme . thank to a £ 10 million investment and a pledge to " get Bewdley do " , the eastern bank of the River Severn in the town of Bewdley in my constituency be receive demountable and permanent flood defence . the problem be that , during the construction , the Environment Agency be unable to put up temporary defence to protect around 30 or so house . we be grateful in Wyre Forest to be receive that money , but be there any more that could be do for those residence and property that be be affect during the construction of much - need flood defence ? it be incredibly important that we well protect as many property and business as possible . I would welcome a conversation with my hon . friend , if he know of particular area in his constituency that need a bit more focus . work with he , the Environment Agency , his local authority , and , I be sure , neighbouring colleague , I would love to look at a solution we can put in place to well reassure his constituent . last week , I try to visit resident of Tamworth village such as Harlaston , Edingale and Elford , after the flooding of Storm Henk . I could not get to certain place in my constituency to meet they . one family have to stay overnight with family in Nottingham because they be unable to get home . these issue will only get bad each year as we face increase climate challenge . will the Government say what budget have be confirm for improve flood defence in my area and when further defence will be build ? it be of course devastating when any community be impact by flood . that be why this Government have double the amount of funding that we be put into flood resilience , from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion from 2021 to 2027 . we be take action to improve our flood resilience and respond quickly to those community that have be impact , through the announcement we make very quickly this weekend on the flood recovery scheme . I be closely monitor the situation to see where additional council , if they meet the requirement , can apply for extra funding , and I will continue to do so . the Minister will know that the Thames valley be also affect by Storm Henk . what discussion have he have or will he have with Thames Water with a view to well protect our public health infrastructure from rainwater and floodwater and therefore limit discharge from outflow ? during extremely heavy rainfall , which we have see from not only Storm Henk , but Storm Babet and during the winter period , water company have work tirelessly to minimise the impact on customer and the environment . while the sheer volume of rainfall have mean that some storm overflow have automatically activate , the Government and the Environment Agency continue to monitor the situation closely . I make the point that back in 2010 , only 7 % of storm overflow be monitor ; we be now at 100 % storm overflow monitoring , which well enable we to ensure that our resource be target where they be most need . that be the reassurance I want to provide to my hon . friend and the House . somerset be once again experience the effect of climate change at first hand , and Storm Henk be the late catastrophic event to result in flooding across my constituency . will provision be introduce to help community create their own bespoke extreme weather resilience plan in identify catchment area ? it be important for all community to work together closely , and during my visit over the last two weekend I see some great example of local authority work closely with their community . however , the Government be also take action very quickly . we be work with the Environment Agency and with local authority that have be affect , and through the flood resilience forum . that be how we be able to communicate as swiftly as possible with the affected community , and how we have be able to make rapid decision to ensure that we roll out the necessary support . the flood recovery scheme and fund have also make that possible this weekend . happy new year , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Minister ' s welcome statement refer to the flooding of 350 property in Leicestershire . in my constituency , Blaby , Broughton Astley , Cosby , Croft , Stoney Stanton , Sharnford and Whetstone be flood . it be one of the bad flood experience by those community in South Leicestershire , and my compliment go to Blaby District Council and Councillors Les Phillimore , Maggie Wright , Ben Taylor and Mike Shirley — to name just a few — for the work they have be do with local community . will the Minister write to I , as a matter of urgency , to explain what government support be available to the village I have mention ? not only will I write to my hon . friend , but I be more than happy to meet he to discuss this . it be excellent to note that his local councillor , such as Les Phillimore , be go above and beyond with the work that they be roll out so swiftly and their interaction with their community . I look forward to a meeting in the near future to discuss what more we can do . I thank the Minister for his statement . I always try to be constructive in my comment . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have make some provision for some of the bad flood in live memory , but recent heavy rain in Northern Ireland put preventive measure such as the provision of sandbag under immense pressure . the seemingly increase frequency of large storm call for a more cross - departmental approach . what discussion have the Minister have with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland about increase financial assistance for shop , restaurant , householder and farmer there ? I work closely with my colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and indeed I have regular conversation with the Minister for Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who be sit next to I . this be , of course , a devolved matter in Northern Ireland , but , while I be sure that we will continue to have conversation within the UK Government , I be more than happy to share any knowledge or learn with all the devolved administration . home , school and field throughout my constituency have be flood . I thank the Secretary of State , the Minister and the chair of the Environment Agency for go there to see the damage for themselves this weekend , and to talk to local farmer . one consistent message have be that the internal drainage board be do a good and cost - efficient job in clear the waterway , and I thank it for that , but the other consistent message be that the Environment Agency be not do the same : it be not clear the vegetation and debris that have be contribute to the flooding . will my hon . friend consider give fund , and responsibility for the large waterway , to the IDB , which be do such a great job , to help protect my constituent ? it be fantastic to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency at the weekend . I want to put on record my thank to Jane Froggatt , who represent some of the internal drainage board , and I commend the work that the board do . in certain circumstance , they go above and beyond . it be clear , and note at my end , that a different approach need to be take to Lincolnshire — which I know very well — and , as I say during my visit , I be more than happy to review what need to be do in term of dredge and remove vegetation from Environment Agency asset and the Delph , which we look at . it be important that we be not only protect urban environment , but look after our farming community and ensure that the land on which they rely to produce the crop that enable we all to eat the food we want to eat be protect as well as possible . barely any part of my constituency be unaffected by the flood . it be not just about the sob resident ; it be also about the chaos cause across the road . the A34 be shut , the Abingdon Road be shut , and child could not get to Larkmead School in Abingdon . the Environment Agency have be promise a comprehensive plan since we be flood devastatingly in 2007 , and the Oxford flood alleviation scheme be in train but there be nothing for Abingdon . would the Minister consider meet I to discuss why the Environment Agency ' s own plan for Abingdon have recently be axe ? my Environment Agency colleague be work incredibly hard across Oxfordshire . the Oxford flood alleviation scheme be in place , but I be more than happy to meet the hon . member to discuss what further action she would like to be take . I want to reassure she that we be work around the clock to make sure that all household , business and farmer be protect from the implication of Storm Henk . I commend the flooding Minister for his energetic response to Storm Henk , and all those who have work so hard during this terrible weather . in West Worcestershire I have work with his predecessor and the Environment Agency over the year to deliver scheme in Upton - upon - Severn , Kempsey , Uckinghall , Powick and Pershore . his predecessor be kind enough to allocate money from the frequently flood community fund to the project in Severn Stoke and Tenbury Wells . will he work with I and the Environment Agency to ensure that those two important scheme be deliver during his tenure ? I want to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the previous flooding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , who do tremendous work in this role . she work hard to ensure that the frequent flood scheme be put in place as quickly as possible . my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) have work very proactively to ensure that her resident be well protect from the implication of flooding . I be more than happy to meet she to work at speed to make sure that our household and business be as well protect as possible . the various storm over the past three month have cause havoc on the East Anglian coast , not least in Pakefield in my constituency , where time be of the essence to prevent more home be destroy . however , this work be at risk of be delay , as it be deem urgent rather than an emergency . will my hon . friend do all he can to remove such red tape ? I be always up for remove red tape where necessary . I commend my hon . friend for be a doughty champion for his constituent , because I think this be the fifth time that he have mention Pakefield to I , not least in the Westminster Hall debate that he secure just before Christmas to discuss this issue . as he know , I be more than happy to have a detailed conversation with he and his colleague along the Norfolk and Suffolk coastline . the flooding Minister visit Alney Island in Gloucester early this morning . I thank he , the Environment Agency , the city council and all who help mitigate the situation . some 80 home in Gloucester have be flood — one home be one too many , but that compare with more than 5 , 000 home and business flood in 2007 with very similar water level , 48 , 000 people without electricity and 135 , 000 without drink water for a week . the huge investment into the defence for Mythe waterworks , Walham substation , Horsbere brook and the westgate drainage scheme , and other aspect of the Conservative Government ' s Pitt review , have make a massive difference . will my hon . friend commit to look closely at the severn partnership ' s proposal for a strategic new reservoir to hold back water in Wales in due course ? first , I thank my hon . friend for invite I to Gloucester this morning . it be an excellent visit to meet his resident and speak with those who have experience flooding on Alney Island . it be clear that the investment that this Government put in place and the flood improvement measure put in place in 2006 have work up until now , but we know the implication when the River Severn catchment be as saturate as it have be . I be willing to meet not only he but the other 38 colleague who form the caucus , to put a strategic plan in place for the whole River Severn catchment . I thank the Minister for his very sensible comment on dredging . when do he expect some further movement on that ? can he say where he think the priority should lie between protect the farm land we need to grow our food and maintain wildlife habitat ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , because I want to make it absolutely clear that no option should be off the table . it be important that we quite rightly have nature - base solution upstream , but also that where Environment Agency asset need dredging , we review that and consider what more could be do in that area , while ensure that we be work with our internal drainage board , which be do a fantastic job . on my visit to Lincolnshire over the weekend , it be clearly communicate to I that the internal drainage board be go above and beyond to protect our productive agricultural land . I want to reassure all those in the agricultural community that the Government will do all we can to protect productive agricultural land . it be completely unfair for a farmer to experience crop loss when that crop have be under water for 10 day and then fail . that be a huge financial loss to our farmer , who spend thousand of pound put that crop in place . I want to reassure my hon . friend that we will review all option . I thank my hon . friend for his statement and for very promptly trigger the flood recovery network . I note that there be a number of local authority adjacent to mine in Swindon . I want to take this opportunity to ask he to meet I to discuss whether small unitary authority such as Swindon sometimes miss out . the number of incident might be small , but I can tell he from my own experience as an active constituency MP that the impact be just as great . absolutely , and I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . regardless of the size of a local authority , what matter be that we protect our constituent from flooding . I be more than happy to meet he and his neighbouring colleague to ensure that , as a Government , we deliver on protect as many home and business as possible . I be grateful to the Minister for his visit to various part of Nottinghamshire this week to see the impact on many of our community . I reiterate his thank to the many hundred of staff , and community flood warden and other volunteer in our community , who have be work around the clock in recent day . he will have see the impact on our infrastructure locally . part of the recovery and the prevention of future flooding impact be about reinstate and recover that infrastructure — not least our road , which have take a massive hit in recent day . I see that he be sit beside the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) . could they have a conversation about how they might support local council in reinstate that infrastructure , which will cost many million of pound ? it be a very worthwhile visit to Nottinghamshire and Nottingham at the weekend and at the end of last week to meet my hon . friend ' s councillor team , who have be incredibly proactive in deliver for many community across Nottinghamshire . it be important for I to visit Radcliffe on Trent , where I see park home that have be flood and , unfortunately , resident evacuate from their property . I be of course willing to work with colleague — such as the Minister for local government , my hon . friend in his role as leader of Nottinghamshire County Council , and other — to ensure that we be deliver as good we can for property impact by flood . the recent flooding have cause significant disruption to part of the national rail network . will the Minister ask the Environment Agency to step up its work with Network Rail to well identify the part of the network that be vulnerable to flooding , and to put in place the necessary prevention and resilience work ? I will absolutely do that . it be incredibly important that people be able to get around as efficiently as they wish to . I be well aware that many of our asset own and manage by Network Rail have be impact by not only Storm Henk , but Storm Babet . I will ask the Environment Agency , as will departmental colleague , to ensure that our asset be well protect . I will also pick that up with colleague in the Department for Transport . finally but not least , I call Tobias Ellwood . I welcome the financial support for flood - hit community . storm Henk have leave its mark on Bournemouth , with local flooding and damage to our road in the form of pothole . we know that if they be not repair swiftly , they cause more damage to car and bike , and cost more to repair in the long term . the good news be that Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council have receive £ 19 million to fix they , so the money be there , but the pothole be back . will the Minister join I in encourage the council to waste no further time in fix they , and not to direct the money elsewhere ? when money have be provide by central Government , it be vital that all local authority use it as quickly as possible . I urge my right hon . friend ' s Lib Dem alliance local authority to use that money as swiftly as possible , to ensure that his constituent be not negatively impact . I thank the Minister for his statement . I have see flooding at first hand in the Ribble Valley and know how devastating it be for everybody affect . I ask he to stay for the point of order . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Minister have frequently refer to a caucus of MPs who represent constituent along the River Severn . as the only non - conservative , I be exclude from those meeting . I wonder whether you can advise I on how I can encourage my colleague on the Government Benches to work more constructively and ensure that my resident be also represent . I be certain that the Minister have hear the hon . Lady ' s request and will be in touch . horizon : Compensation and Convictions before I call the Minister , I will make a short statement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . there be relevant active legal proceeding relate to Horizon before the court . in December 2022 , Mr Speaker exercise his discretion in respect of matter sub judice to allow reference to those proceeding , as they concern issue of national importance . that waiver be ongoing . however , I urge hon . member to exercise caution in what they say , and to avoid refer in detail to case that remain before the court . the Post Office scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history , shake people ' s faith in the principle of equity and fairness that form the core pillar of our legal system . I be very pleased that last week ' s excellent ITV drama " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " have bring an understanding of the Horizon scandal to a much broad audience . I have receive much correspondence about the scandal and the emotional impact that the dramatisation have have . those of we who have be campaign and work on the issue for some year be already well aware of what happen . I pay particular tribute to Alan Bates and his fellow postmaster , include Jo Hamilton and Lee Castleton , to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Lucy Allan ) , the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) and for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , to Lord Arbuthnot and other member of the Horizon compensation advisory board , and of course to key figure in the medium . they play a key role in seek justice and compensation for the victim . I also thank the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , for his continually constructive approach , as well as my ministerial predecessor , include my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) . watch last week ' s ITV programme have only reinforce our zeal for see justice do as quickly as possible . we be already a long way down that road . Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be do great work in expose what go wrong and who be responsible . full and final compensation have already be pay to 64 % of those people affect . I have previously say to the House that my main concern now be regard those still wait for full and final compensation , and the slow pace at which criminal conviction relate to Horizon be be overturn by the court . before Christmas , the advisory board publish a letter that underline exactly that . this be not just a matter of get justice for those wrongly convict . overturn their conviction be also key to unlock compensation . each person whose Horizon conviction be overturn be entitle to an interim compensation payment of £ 163 , 000 . they can then choose whether to have their compensation individually assess or to accept an up - front offer of £ 600 , 000 . that offer be already speed along compensation for a significant number of people . in the light of the advisory board ' s letter about overturn conviction , I have speak to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and to Lord Arbuthnot . I have also have a very positive meeting this afternoon with my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor . all of we in the House be unite in our desire to see justice do , and we have devise some option for resolve the outstanding criminal conviction at much great pace . the Lord Chancellor will , rightly , need to speak to senior figure in the judiciary about those option before we put they forward , but I be confident that we should be able to implement measure that address the concern express by the advisory board . I hope that the Government will be able to announce those proposal to the House very shortly . of course , there be clearly great concern about the role of the Post Office in prosecute these case . the Post Office rightly decide to stop undertake private prosecution in 2015 . if we be to make sure that a scandal such as this can never happen again , we need to look at the way in which private prosecution such as these have be undertake . any company can bring private prosecution in this way : this be not a special power of the Post Office . I know that the Lord Chancellor want to give this issue proper and thoughtful consideration , and I be sure that he will report to the House about the issue in due course . get justice for the victim of this scandal and ensure that such a tragedy can never happen again be my high priority as a Minister , as it have be throughout my 15 month in office . when we talk about compensation , we have to remember that the life of the postmaster and their family catch up in this scandal have be change forever . they have face financial ruin , untold personal distress and a loss of reputation that no amount of financial compensation can fully restore . the Government recognise that we have a clear moral duty to right those wrong to the good of our ability . to support those whose life be turn upside down by the scandal , we have provide significant funding for compensation . we have also be clear that it should not be the taxpayer alone who pick up the tab . we will wait for the inquiry to report to make clear the extent of any other organisation ' s culpability for the scandal and any individual accountability . our aim be to ensure that every victim be fully recompense for their loss and the suffering they have have to ensure . to date , more than £ 148 million have be pay to 2 , 700 victim across all compensation scheme , 93 conviction have be overturn and , of those , 30 have agree full and final settlement . just over £ 30 million have be pay out in compensation to those with overturn conviction , include interim payment . of course , we want to ensure that the process for agree compensation be fair , transparent and open to independent assessment . that be one of the reason why I be today announce that retire High Court judge Sir Gary Hickinbottom have agree to chair an independent panel that will assess the pecuniary loss of those postmaster with overturn conviction where dispute arise . that will bring independent oversight to compensation payment in a similar way to Sir Ross Cranston ' s oversight of the group litigation order scheme and the independent panel in the Horizon shortfall scheme . of the original 555 courageous postmaster who take the Post Office to court and who first bring the Horizon scandal into the public eye , £ 27 million have be pay out to 477 claimant in addition to the net £ 11 million receive through the December 2019 settlement . forty - seven member of the original GLO group have also receive compensation follow the overturning of their conviction , total more than £ 17 million . we have receive full claim form from 59 of those postmaster who be eligible for the GLO scheme and issue 43 offer . there have be 21 full and final settlement pay and a further seven full and final settlement accept . that bring the total number of accept full and final GLO settlement to 28 . I would encourage claimant ' lawyer to continue to submit GLO claim , because my Department stand ready to review they and turn they round quickly . it be worth note that the 2 , 417 postmaster who claim through the original Horizon shortfall scheme have all receive offer of compensation . around 85 % have accept those offer , worth over £ 107 million . in total , over £ 91 million have be pay out through the scheme , with the Post Office now deal with late application and with case where initial offer be not accept . however , this be not just about compensation ; it be about restoration — the restoring of people ' s good name and the restoring of the public ' s trust , both in our postal service and in our justice system . it be therefore only right that we get to the bottom of what go wrong and of who know what and when . although the scale of the problem be immense , the Government be unwavere in their resolve to tackle it , to compensate those affected and to leave no stone unturned in the pursuit of justice . we owe that to the victim , to their family , to the memory of postmaster who have die since this tragedy first come to light and to those who , tragically , take their own life after be accuse of awful crime they never commit . we owe it to everyone who have be catch up in this tragic miscarriage of justice . I thank all member across the House who be support we in this effort . together we stand united , not just in memory of those who have suffer , but in share purpose to ensure that such a tragedy can never , and will never , happen again . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for the advance copy of his statement . the Horizon Post Office failure be a scandal to which we have be respond for some time , but I welcome the way the recent ITV drama have bring the story to a wide audience . it be a powerful reminder of the way that art and culture can be use to tackle injustice and to raise public awareness . I also pay tribute , as I have before , to the sub - postmaster , to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , to Lord Arbuthnot and to all those member whose work have be integral in the progress to date to get justice . a lot have be do but , as we all know , there be a lot more to do , because the Horizon scandal be quite simply one of the most egregious miscarriage of justice in british history — something that rob people of their life , their liberty and their livelihood . drive by the misguided belief that technology be infallible and worker dishonest , the Post Office prosecute innocent people , cause unimaginable pain and suffering , which no amount of compensation can ever alleviate . to add insult to injury , the journey to justice for those sub - postmaster have be mire in a great many delay and barrier , and some of the people affect have , tragically , pass away before have the chance to see justice . I recognise the attention that the Minister have give this matter , include by respond positively to the campaign to ensure that compensation payment be not subject to taxation . however , it be still an urgent priority to get compensation to all those affect , and it be unconscionable that conviction still remain , where it be clear that no wrongdoing have be commit . justice must be serve for those worker and their family , which be why Labour have call for all sub - postmaster to be exonerate in full . I listen carefully to what the Minister have to say about that , and I extend our support for any action that may be require to overturn these conviction as quickly as possible , while ensure that no victim have to re - enter litigation and relive the trauma they have experience . I appreciate the Minister ' s acknowledgment that the public want to know that that will happen as soon as possible . I also welcome the review he announce into private prosecution , because the public want assurance that nothing like this can ever be allow to happen again . it be right that the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry continue to uncover the truth . however , just when it be feel that this outrageous miscarriage of justice could not get any bad , more allegation have come to the fore , which must now surely be consider as part of that inquiry . it have emerge today that there be potentially dozen more victim from a pilot scheme . this afternoon , I learn from one of my constituent that they be inform only very recently that they be a victim of this scandal , so what step be the Government take to ensure that every victim be identify and encourage to come forward ? it be clear that Fujitsu face serious question that demand a response . those question must be answer in the evidence session plan for the inquiry later this year . if it be find that Fujitsu know the extent of what be occur , there will have to be consequence that match the scale of the injustice . additionally , those involve in the running of the Post Office who have receive honour must be hold to the high standard that those honours demand . they will also have the opportunity to give their side of the story in the inquiry , but if that evidence be unsatisfactory , I would urge the Forfeiture Committee to consider the propriety of those honour and to take any far appropriate action . for many people who watch the ITV adaptation , it will be hard to believe that this ongoing tragedy be not a work of fiction , so egregious and pernicious have the impact be on people ' s life . but this be not a tv show ; it be very real and it have have real - world impact . lesson must be learn , and justice must be serve . I have faith that the Williams inquiry will ensure that those responsible be hold to account . it be right that innocent people have their conviction overturn not just so that they can begin to turn the page on this scandal , but to ensure that it lead to quick access to the compensation they rightly deserve , as the Minister say . however , I believe that that be just one of the many step that will be require if amend be ever to be make for this most insidious of injustice . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word and support , and for the manner in which he deliver his response to the statement . we share an ambition to see exoneration , and I be very happy to work with he over the next few day to make sure that we be get to the right place . he raise a very important point about people who be involve in a pilot scheme for Horizon — an issue that have also be raise by the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . we want to make sure that every single victim be properly cover by the various scheme , and I have ask everybody who have evidence of any kind , include the right hon . member for North Durham , to furnish I with the detail . I will make sure that we pick up anybody who be leave outside the scheme . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) mention Fujitsu , and I concur with his point . anybody who be show to be responsible for this scandal should be hold accountable , include by make payment into the taxpayer ' s fund . I accept what he say about the honours system , as I have say before on a number of occasion . I speak as a former ceo . this be not to direct responsibility for any specific thing that happen — the Sir Wyn Williams inquiry be there to identify responsibility — but , as a former ceo , I would say that it be perfectly reasonable to ask the ceo who oversee the Post Office during a critical time , when thing go so badly wrong , to voluntarily hand back their honour . however , that be a matter for the person concern . I call the Father of the House . I refer my hon . friend the Minister to the article in the Howard Journal of Crime and Justice by M . r . McGuire and K . Renaud , entitle " Harm , injustice & technology : reflection on the UK ' s subpostmaster ' case " . first , page 444 show the graph of the prosecution , which rise from 10 in 1997 to nearly 80 in 2001 . the people responsible should have notice that we be not go to get ordinary , decent people — sub - postmistress and sub - postmaster — suddenly go crook on that scale . secondly , the article talk about the bug that be name after the sub - post office where they be discover : the Dalmellington bug and the Callendar Square bug . I also refer my hon . friend the Minister to the article in the Sun about my constituent Cheryl Shaw , who give up in 2008 . have lose £ 400 week after week , she bring in the Post Office investigator , who claim that they could not find anything to explain what be happen . she have to sell out , she lose her home and she take on work as a carer . she be illustrative of those who be convict and those who give up before they be prosecute . many people now believe that the Horizon system be set up for one purpose and adapt to another , for which it do not work . when people start enter thing twice , there be apparently a loss where the Post Office do not actually lose any money . if the Post Office do not lose any money , how could people have be properly prosecute ? the titanic error be the belief in technology . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I totally agree that people should be hold responsible where , follow an inquiry and investigation , they be show to have wilfully neglect their duty . he raise an important point about the court ' attitude towards computer and technology - base evidence . my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor be look at that issue too , it have be bring to his attention by Paul Marshall , one of the lead barrister involve in this scandal . I be sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent , Mrs Shaw . I take it that she will have apply to the Horizon shortfall scheme , which should compensate people like she . if my hon . friend would like any help or assistance to make sure that have happen , either for himself or for Mrs Shaw , I be very happy to provide it . I call the SNP spokesperson . Mr Deputy Speaker , you be in the Chair when we last discuss the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill on 19 December . I do not think any of we who know about the tv drama would have believe the impact it have have . it be bittersweet that it be have such an effect . it be really tell that mp , peer , the medium and many other try to bring this issue into the public consciousness , but none of we manage to do so as effectively as a tv drama . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . today I have be contact by local sub - postmaster who want to meet I . they be never prosecute , but they have shortfall and pay money back to the Post Office . many of they just walk away and retire , and they now have no evidence of what happen . when a sub - postmaster walk away from a post office , all the financial documentation go back to Post Office Ltd . can we have a thought on that , Minister ? will the Minister confirm that all the money that go back to Post Office Ltd enhance the profit on which , over the year , many bonus be pay to Post Office executive ? will pressure be put on those people to repay those bonus ? I disagree with very little of the Minister ' s statement , and I think there be consensus across the Chamber on this , but some word spring out at I : " very shortly " and " in due course " . can we please have fix timeline for the report ? I commend Sir Wyn Williams , whom I first meet when he take on the inquiry before it become statutory . it sound ridiculous for I to say that I be impressed by he , but I really understand that he be go to get to the bottom of what happen . he have do that in spite of grievous failure on behalf of Post Office Ltd . there must be accountability for everyone in Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu who prosecute and persecute sub - postmaster over the year . I pledge that SNP Members will continue to put pressure on government of any colour to keep the momentum go to ensure that real justice be serve , even if that involve more pressure on the former ceo and on the people who receive honour because of their work for Post Office Ltd . [ interruption . ] I see the Minister nod and know he agree with I . I thank the hon . Lady for her question and , indeed , for her work on the all - party group on post office . in term of the case she raise of the postmaster who have suffer financially and in which there will be difficulty in provide information because of lack of evidence , the benefit of the doubt should clearly be with the postmaster in this situation . the Horizon shortfall scheme be there to compensate people in that situation . if she need any help with any of those case I be very happy to assist . on whether people repay bonus or whatever else people might be hold accountable for , in order to be fair we should wait for the result of the inquiry . we believe in process in this House and it be right that people have a right to reply and give their own evidence . I agree with the hon . Lady ' s confidence in Sir Wyn Williams , who be do a tremendous job . I be sorry that I can not be more precise on the timescale , but I will be very disappointed if we go past the end of this week without give more information to the House . I entirely agree with the hon . Lady about the accountability of individual both for all reason of justice and to act as a deterrent to anybody else who be ever tempt to do the wrong thing in such circumstance . these corporate failure and corporate abuse can not continue and we need to make sure people realise that if it happen , they will be hold to account . I congratulate the Minister and his immediate predecessor for the sterling work they have do in attempt to bring justice to this problem . however , the Government need to do four thing : to stop the Post Office unnecessarily challenge the victim ' appeal and find a more rapid method to exonerate all the innocent victim ; to instruct the Post Office to stop hire expensive lawyer to challenge the compensation claim and therefore to accelerate the payment mechanism ; to strip away the Post Office ' s right to police its own case ; and to accelerate the investigatory procedure prior to criminal prosecution of the real villain in this case — we know who they be . do the Minister believe that he can achieve those four aim in month rather than year ? I thank my right hon . friend for his kind word and for all his work in the campaign for justice for postmaster . I also congratulate he on his recent knighthood ; the whole of Yorkshire be rejoice at his award . I can assure my right hon . friend on all four count . yes , we want a more rapid mean of overturn conviction . yes , we want to make sure that the Post Office do not challenge unfairly any attempt to overturn those conviction . yes , too , on make sure that the investigatory process happen more quickly . of course , some of these matter be outside our control , as he be fully aware , because of the separation of power , but in term of the policing of case I be happy to talk to he after this statement about what precisely he mean by that . there be an independent element to the way all the compensation scheme be run . they be not be police or restrict by the Post Office ; there be independent panel and independent assessment as part of all those process , but I be happy to talk to my right hon . friend in detail about what we can do in those area . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . Justice delay be justice deny but 85 % of the conviction have still not be overturn despite the Select Committee warning last spring that the process be roll much too slowly and have make recommendation for speed it up . many of those recommendation be reject , yet tonight the Minister have tell the House that only now be the Lord Chancellor explore with the judiciary a way to speed thing up . will the Minister tell we tonight his timeframe for deliver justice to those who have be unfairly convict ? can those who be still wait for their conviction to be overturn expect justice to be do this year ? or must they wait until many more of they have , tragically , pass away without justice ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his work as Chair of the Select Committee , and I be very happy to be appear before it next week to answer more detailed question on these matter . he be right to say that most conviction have not come forward , which be precisely why we be make this statement today — so that more people with conviction have they overturn . one difficulty be that some of they have not come forward . also , about 50 people who have come forward have not have their conviction overturn . we be look at both those particular issue and I be happy to talk to the right hon . Gentleman about any of his recommendation . yes , we absolutely want to see these issue resolve this year . as we have say before , we want to see all compensation payment do by August , which be the original timeframe . not all these matter be within our gift : we require victim and their representative to bring forward claim and , in the current process , those seek to overturn conviction to bring forward application for that . that be a process that we be try to expedite , and I hope to have some very good news for the right hon . gentleman in the come day . as one who for all too many year have urge fast compensation and redress for those who have suffer in this scandal , I welcome the new sense of urgency and united purpose across the Floor of the House . when my hon . friend be look at the Post Office ' s right to bring private prosecution , will he understand that it be the fact that it be 100 % government own and accountable through this House to the Government that give it so much more seriousness and weight against the innocent who be try to defend themselves ? my right hon . friend make a good point , and that definitely play a part in the Post Office ' s ability to take forward prosecution . that be something that my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor be look at across the piece , not least in connection with the Post Office , although , as I say in my statement , it have not take forward any prosecution since 2015 and I think it be highly unlikely that it would try to , even before thing might be change . I thank the Minister for his statement and declare an interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board . I think we need more tv drama , because it have have a remarkable effect on attendance in this House tonight . the drama be successful because it speak about the victim . many of we who have be involve in this case for many year have meet many of they — I know the Minister and his predecessor have too — and know the torment that those individual have be through , and the drama be excellent in show that . the key thing now , as Alan Bates say at the weekend , be to get the compensation out of the door as quickly as possible . I welcome what the Minister say on overturn conviction . the advisory board make recommendation on that , and I think all 927 conviction need quash . may I ask he whether we can consider that on Wednesday at our next meeting , and what timescale he be look at ? can we also get the pre - Horizon scheme that have now become evident , which my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) refer to , bottom out very quickly to find out how many case there be and how many be prosecute — I know of at least two — so that we can get justice for those individual as well ? if anyone think there be not still people out there , I have three people contact I this afternoon , and I have speak to they . there be people out there who we still need to reach out to . absolutely . I think the programme not only capture the type of people we be talk about here , whom people who have meet the sub - postmaster be already aware of , but perfectly highlight the Post Office ' s brutal and desensitise approach in these matter . that be part of the reason why the programme have create the situation we have today , and we welcome that , because we be keen to deliver the compensation scheme and get support for it across the House and across the nation . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his work on the advisory board . I certainly hope to attend that advisory board meeting on Wednesday and share some of our thinking at that time about what measure we be propose . he raise an important point about the pilot scheme and people affect by the pilot version of Horizon . we believe they be still cover by the compensation scheme — I think he agree with that as well — but we want to make sure that those people have be reach out to . as I say when we speak about it this morning , if he share the detail of those people with I , we will find out whether they have be contact , and if not , why not , because other people might be in a similar circumstance . I welcome the sense of urgency that there now be on both side of the House about this situation . will my hon . friend bear in mind two point in take this process forward ? first , although it be critical that we speed up the mean by which these improper conviction be overturn , will he bear in mind that that will place exceptional and unprecedented strain on the appeal system and the criminal justice system , and that that would , if we follow the normal route , require unprecedented resource to be put in ? will he work closely with the Lord Chancellor to take on board the judiciary ' s ability to cope with that volume of case be put forward ? secondly , on private prosecution , can I ask he perhaps to revisit the Justice Committee ' s recommendation from 2021 — for example , that all private prosecutor should be subject to the oversight of his Majesty ' s chief inspector of the Crown Prosecution Service , to ensure proper standard of independence and objectivity in deal with case , which be clearly lack in this situation ? I thank my hon . friend for his work . yes , we share the ambition to speed up the whole process . I also thank my hon . friend for what he have do with the Lord Chancellor , who mention my hon . friend ' s work during our meeting early today . we be aware of the resource issue and the time scale around look at individual case ; we be very much take those into account in term of the solution that we will hopefully arrive at . the Lord Chancellor be equally concerned about private prosecution . I thank my hon . friend for his work on that issue ; again , our conversation today very much centre around his work on the Select Committee and its recommendation . the Minister refer to the brutal approach of the Post Office . it strike I that this be another example of what Bishop James Jones in the Hillsborough inquiry refer to as " the patronising disposition of unaccountable power " . the conviction of my constituent , Janet Skinner , have be quash , but she have not receive any compensation to date . can the Minister put a firm time on when she will start to get that compensation pay to she ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her work on this issue . on Mrs Skinner , I should say that all people on any of the three scheme get access to an interim payment . if Mrs Skinner ' s conviction have be overturn , she be entitle to an interim payment of £ 163 , 000 . from then , she can take two route . she can go for a full assessment , which take more time as the issue be complex , assess financial loss and detriment relate to thing such as health . our commitment be that 90 % of those who go down a full assessment route will have an offer make back to they within 40 working day ; that be our target . the alternative be that she can pursue the fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 . there be no need to compile a claim to do that — the money can be pay out pretty much instantly . that be not a route for everybody , but it have be a route for a significant number of the 30 people with overturn conviction who have decide to settle . four hour of compelling storytelling have bring a fresh wave of interest , anger and frustration to people around the country and indeed in this Chamber — it be great to see so many people support the sub - postmaster ' plight . the Minister have be work diligently on the issue for 18 month now , so he need no reminder that , as the episode start by state , this story be true . will my hon . friend diligently build on his work to make sure that the judiciary allow a blanket quashing of all the conviction , so that they can get to the Treasury to make sure that the funding be there for full and fair compensation and that the Post Office adhere to his timetable of August 2024 ? Sir Wyn Williams need no reminder about get those answer as part of his excellent work on the inquiry . do my hon . friend agree that the good way to do this be to remind all those people that we be all human first and politician second ? this be about human cost . I thank my hon . friend . he talk about build on my work . can I say that I be build on his work ? he do a tremendous job in his role when this issue first come to light . we share the ambition to do something that expedite the process of overturn conviction . the time for quibble be over ; it be now a case of action this day and deliver that overturning of conviction . clearly , we want to do that in a way that do not cause we any constitutional or legal problem across the system . we believe we have a solution and we should be able to give more detail in due course — very shortly . Sir Wyn Williams ' s work be also play a key part and I thank he for establish the statutory inquiry , which be go to lead to so many answer that people rightly demand . the Minister have hear from I previously about the difficulty face by the executor of my constituent , who be a victim of this scandal and have subsequently die . ultimately , the difficulty with my constituent ' s case be that she have be put in her own money to make up shortfall and the executor do not know how much they should settle for , because the Post Office itself have no idea what the proper sum ought to be . in such circumstance , what can the Government do to ensure every victim of this scandal get the full compensation to which they be entitle ? again , I thank the right hon . gentleman for the work he have do on behalf of his constituent and I be so sorry to hear she have pass away . I have a similar situation in my constituency , as Sam Harrison of Nawton , near Helmsley , sadly pass away last May before she receive compensation . it be a tragedy . as the right hon . Gentleman know , compensation will be pay to the executor , who will probably be family member , so it be not about any saving of money but nevertheless we still want to accelerate the process . I totally agree with what he say about the lack of evidence in some case , which may be 20 year old . in those situation , the benefit of the doubt should be with the victim , ensure that the settlement be assess as generously as possible and pay out as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister for his statement — he have say a great deal already — and pay tribute to those sub - postmaster who fight for justice , include one of my constituent who be part of the 555 who undertake the group - lead litigation . will the Minister give an insight into the step that will be take to review the action and accountability of Fujitsu , as well as its culpability , as it be still award contract , week after week , across Government ? the entire scandal have demonstrate acute institutional state failure that have to be acknowledge . what review will take place of the corporate governance action of the Department that oversee shareholder responsibility towards the Post Office during this period , and what change can proceed around the governance and accountability of the Post Office ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . I share her wish to pay tribute to the sub - postmaster who campaign so long and effectively on the issue . I read with interest the piece she write the other weekend about what she think should be do , and I agree with much of what she say . as I say early , anybody who be responsible , either at a corporate level or individually , should be hold to account , which may include payment to assist with compensation and look at the contract that have be award . it be right to let Sir Wyn Williams undertake his inquiry , report properly and assign blame , and we should take action , at a corporate or individual level , at that time , to make sure both of those body be accountable . the Minister say that this be about not just compensation but restoration . that be true , but be it not also about misfeasance in public office ? will the Minister confirm that the maximum penalty for a public servant who willingly and knowingly act in manner that result in harm , injury or financial loss to an innocent party be life imprisonment ? well , the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about accountability . we have give Sir Wyn Williams the chance to look at all these issue and determine accountability and individual responsibility . I have deal with a number of different scandal over the year , from the Back Benches as well as in my ministerial role . they happen at a corporate level too often for we to simply carry on in the way we have do in the past , so I be happy to take away the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the potential penalty for the offence he describe , which I will discuss with official and other . anybody who care about the interest of justice in our country will be horrify not just at the nature of these miscarriage of justice , but at the sheer scale of they . do that not beg a very important question ? this be an unprecedented set of circumstance and , in my judgment , it require an unprecedented approach : there should be legislation on the Floor of the House to deal with the conviction of this huge class of people who be not just not guilty , but victim . I urge the Minister and the Lord Chancellor to look urgently at the question of legislation — I know that it would be support in this House — to create a presumption of innocence that will cut the gordian knot and support the victim and their family who have be endure this horror for too long . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question and for his work on this issue , and I appreciate the engagement that he have have with the Lord Chancellor . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , this situation be unprecedented . we certainly discuss legislation on the Floor of the House at length today in a meeting with the Lord Chancellor and official . he will be aware that the Lord Chancellor be speak to the judiciary about these matter . he may want to do the same and make his feeling know to ensure that there be no barrier to make sure that we can legislate in the way that he describe . sometimes with hindsight it be possible to see that mistake be make and that an injustice be carry out , but it beggar belief that , at the time , the Post Office , Fujitsu and Ministers believe that people who be trust pillar of society suddenly turn into a mass group of thief , plunder million of pound from their employer . surely those who be observe this at the time must have know that something be wrong , yet they spend hundred of million of pound persecuting and prosecute people who be innocent and who have suffer intolerably . will the Minister assure we that those who be guilty of negligence at that time or perhaps , even bad , cynical abuse of their position , will be hold to account ? I thank the right hon . member ; he have contribute to every debate on this issue that I have be involve in as a Back Bencher and as a Minister , and he have pay close attention to this all the way through and demand justice . as I say , the approach of the Post Office be brutal , gratuitous and shocking . should people be hold to account ? absolutely . I do not think we can start to dissuade people from take these wrongful , disgraceful action without a deterrent . certainly , hold people to account by whatever mean possible , include potentially prosecution , would be a significant deterrent for people think of do this kind of stuff in the future . I very much welcome the Minister ' s approach , but I also pay tribute to the work that he do to raise the profile of this issue before he take on that role . this be a scandal of historic proportion and head must roll , with or without gong attach to they . I be aware of only one sub - postmaster in my constituency who be pursue by the Post Office and not convict , but it strike I that that be because I have very few sub - post office leave . be there ground for investigate whether the Post Office use this dodgy accounting to mismanage the profitability of individual branch to accelerate the closure programme of many of those branch , which leave we , in many case , with very few post office branch leave for our constituent to use ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his work . he raise a very important point . the motivation behind the action of the Post Office and executive and manager in the Post Office be something that Sir Wyn Williams be look at as part of his inquiry , and I be very interested to see the result of that . there be no sense that I be aware of that this be just another method of try to contribute towards the closure of a post office . despite the closure that my right hon . friend have experience , that be principally about the general nature of the impact on high street of change shopping habit , which be cause difficulty for some of the network . we be determined to try to ensure that the post office network be more viable and more sustainable , include for individual business . a more generous deal on the banking framework between bank and post office , in term of the remuneration that they get to manage access to cash , for example , be one of the way that we can make post office more sustainable . we be fully commit to maintain a significant network across the country , and it be currently set at 11 , 500 branch . it be reference early that many people involve in this terrible scandal be come forward — more since the drama — but of course a small proportion have not . the Minister and his Department have be try to track down those who be eligible for compensation , include by write to member of this House . what support will the Department provide in forensic person and company search to try to track down all those who be eligible but may simply have become so exasperated or exhausted that they walk away and want nothing furth to do with it ? the hon . member raise an important point . we have write to all the people with conviction , for example , to say , " please come forward . " it be not about a lack of ability to identify individual ; a lot of it be about the confidence of those people to come forward after what they have be through . we hope that make it easy to overturn a conviction and easy to access compensation will encourage more people to come forward . as he say , people have be come forward — people have come directly to I since the ITV programme be air — so we think that what we be do and have do be help with that , but we certainly need to do more to convince people that come forward be the right thing to do and that they can be confident of good treatment . many people who be run sub - post office branch be not victim but be leave demoralise by what they see happen to colleague and people across their network and quietly give up what have be their living and , in some case , their home . will the Minister indicate whether there will be support to enable those people to come forward , give their story and ascertain whether they might also be eligible for compensation because they feel force out by the lack of care show by the Post Office ? my right hon . friend raise an interesting point . certainly , the Horizon shortfall scheme should compensate anybody who be directly affect by the scandal — not just financially but through other , non - pecuniary issue they face and suffer from . I be happy to take her point away and see what information we might have in that area . many of my constituent have email I over the past few day because they , too , watch the powerful dramatisation that we have all see . what they want most be for the Post Office and individual within it to be hold to account , as other hon . member have say . do the Minister agree that look to the fact of what have happen , many of these people may well have claim for malicious prosecution and that where evidence have be withhold or lie tell in court , the police should look at whether there have be perjury and — seriously — a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice , which would of course carry with it an extremely hefty prison sentence ? the hon . and learn Lady be right to point out malicious prosecution , which form part of the compensation package available to those people who have conviction . in term of offence and thing that happen that lead to these issue that people be or may be guilty of , we expect the police or other enforcement agency to look at that carefully . there be nothing to stop they bring forward prosecution where they can see that people would be guilty of a certain offence . while applaud the extraordinary courage and resilience of the sub - postmaster who have campaign for justice for so long , do my hon . friend agree that the maker of " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " and ITV represent public service broadcasting at its good and that without that we would not be have this statement ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . I entirely agree ; the programme bring the scandal into everybody ' s live room , and although many people be vaguely or even very aware of it , they do not see its real effect in term of the people it affect or the brutal way in which they be bully and force out of their business and livelihood — and in 200 case , I think , put in prison . the programme have do a fantastic job . we should pay tribute to ITV , its producer and the actor concern , 0 as well as to the many journalist — not least Nick Wallis , Tom Witherow and Karl Flinders — who bring these issue to light and into the public consciousness , which I be sure play a part in the producer ’ decision to make the programme . I also pay tribute to the Minister , and to all the people he mention in his statement , for their work . we must recognise and accept that it be not sound to base any criminal conviction on Horizon . my constituent be one of the original 555 in the group litigation order scheme . his conviction be overturn , so he be now seek full compensation in the overturn conviction scheme , but his be one of three case that the Post Office say there be no public interest in pursue . it say that Horizon be not intrinsic to his conviction , but the figure use in his conviction be produce use Horizon . that be a Kafkaesque situation and it can not be allow to stand . the Post Office should not be anywhere near decide who get compensation and what compensation they get . it should be remove from the process . it have be show to be untrustworthy and incapable of deal with the matter in an even - handed way . do the Minister agree ? the hon . Gentleman have contribute to virtually every debate or statement on this matter , and I thank he for his work on it . we agree with he , and indeed the compensation scheme agree with he , that the Horizon evidence should not play any part in whether or not somebody be find guilty . there be obviously different scheme : the Horizon shortfall scheme , and the group litigation order scheme , which people who be part of the group of 555 sub - postmaster take forward . to clarify , the 40 - day target for a response to any claim be under the GLO scheme , not the overturn conviction scheme , although we be equally ambitious about provide rapid offer to people who bring forward claim for overturn conviction . he raise an important point about public interest case . again , we have discuss that today with the Lord Chancellor . we want to ensure that everybody affect get fair compensation and that the Post Office have as little influence as possible in those case . ideally , in term of overturn conviction and access to compensation , we would deliver something completely outside the Post Office ' s jurisdiction . it be progress that £ 27 million of compensation have now be pay to 477 of the 555 , and that 47 of the GLO group have receive compensation totalling £ 17 million follow the overturning of their conviction , but my constituent Jo Hamilton tell I that it be still far too difficult and that people be still be far too easily mess around in the process . will the Minister look again at how he can make it even easy and clear for people to claim their full and final compensation ? that be exactly what we be attempt to do . I have meet Jo Hamilton . she be a wonderful and incredibly tenacious individual , and one would never guess from her disposition that she have be through the trauma that she have . we accept that , at the moment , the process for overturn a conviction or for compensation be not as rapid as we would like . that be exactly what we have be look at for some time , not least over the past few day . we have have good conversation today , and we hope to have clear and well news for my right hon . friend in the next few day . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his work on this issue . like so many member , I represent people whose life be destroy by this outrageous injustice , two of whom I have be in touch with again today . on their behalf , I urge the Government to provide swift and fair compensation , and call for the immediate exoneration of all those who bear the crush and unjust shame of accusation and conviction . this scandal have also create outrage and disgust among serve postmaster who be not themselves victim and may post - date the scandal but who simply do not wish to be associate any long with an organisation that can treat people in the contemptible way that the Post Office have treat the victim . do he recognise that this be a moment of real crisis for the post office network , such that one of my postmaster have already resign and another have threaten to do so for that very reason ? will he instruct the Post Office to go above and beyond to support the network , postmaster and potential postmaster , so that we still have a post office network at the end of all this ? I agree with all the hon . Gentleman ' s point . swift and fair compensation — absolutely . an immediate overturning of conviction be something that we be look to achieve as soon as possible , if it be possible , clearly subject to the caveat I set out early . despite what the Post Office have do , most member of the public still look at the post office network with great admiration . it be greatly value in our community , so I do not believe that it be a damaged brand , but it be right that postmaster should have a much well relationship with the central management at the Post Office and the network itself . much work have happen in that area , include the recruitment of 100 area manager to try to improve that relationship . that relationship will also be improve by make individual post office branch more financially sustainable , as the hon . Gentleman and I have discuss . we be very keen to do thing such as the banking framework and the new parcel hub opportunity for those postmaster . the post office network have a bright future and a sound reputation , and we be keen to reinforce that . we have already hear about the work of the Business and Trade Committee , which look at this issue for our February 2022 report . one of the most distressing feature from our evidence session be hear about the many people who be affect but be unwilling to come forward because it be too painful and they want to put the matter behind they . as we see in the ITV drama , the Post Office be just not trust . that lead to the Committee ' s recommendation that there should be a trusted point of contact for people to go to . will the Minister join I in welcome today ' s news that 100 new people have come forward ? will he do his utmost to encourage everyone affect to come forward and claim the compensation that they be due ? absolutely . I thank my hon . friend for all his work on the Select Committee , of which he be a long - stand member . we be very concerned about the people who will not come forward for whatever reason . the good way to tackle that be to make it easy to get compensation . that be one of the reason why we bring forward the fix - sum award route for overturn conviction — there be no requirement to submit a detailed claim to access that £ 600 , 000 — and make it easy generally to overturn conviction by make those two route easy . we think that be the good way to convince people to come forward . the message should go out loud and clear from every Member of this House to the people affect : " please come forward , because you will be treat fairly and you will be compensate quickly . " I be raise point from constituent who have be move by the ITV drama on the Horizon scandal . I want to reiterate the point make by my hon . friend and hon . member on the Government Benches about the value of such a drama in bring home the extent of the scandal to a much wide audience . I congratulate all those involve in make the drama , and the investigation work that go into it . may I add my voice to that of my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) to support the review of private prosecution ? that be the power that allow the Post Office to be a suppose victim , investigator and prosecutor . finally , my constituent be deeply concerned about the delay in pay compensation to victim . can the Minister expedite the payment in any way ? I share the hon . Lady ' s point that the dramatisation be invaluable in raise awareness and in make sure that we bring forward measure as quickly as possible — all thing that she mention . as I say , private prosecution be something that I discuss with the Lord Chancellor today , and he be keen to look at that in the general context . I be sure that he will report to the House in due course . I agree with the hon . Lady entirely on delay . we want to expedite this process of overturn conviction and pay compensation , to make it much quick and easy . that be the good way to resolve these issue and ensure that as many people as possible be confident to come forward . follow the ITV drama broadcast last week , I have be contact by many constituent , and they will welcome the Minister ' s focus today on justice for every single victim . but he know that , despite his effort and those of many other Ministers , the Criminal Cases Review Commission have say that many of the 700 people who have have criminal conviction will not take part in a further legal process , perhaps because of their understandable collapse of trust in the Post Office , and also in the judicial system . now be the time for the Government to consider how all conviction that rely on evidence from the Horizon system , which must now be see as unsafe , could be quash without victim have to endure further legal wrangling . my right hon . friend raise important point . that be exactly the experience so far : people will not take part — of course , the Criminal Cases Review Commission can only do so much if they do not — despite the fact that the Post Office now look at every single case and will write to people when it be not go to contest an appeal . it be try to be more proactive in ensure that people come forward , but I share my right hon . friend ' s ambition . ideally , we would like a process that do not require a convict postmaster to come forward — something that we could do across the board . that be exactly what we be look at , and I hope to have some news for she in the come day . I thank the Minister for his statement , and pay tribute to the sub - postmaster who have lead the campaign . concern over Horizon have be in the air for at least 14 year . that is 14 year of pain , injustice and uncertainty for the victim and their family . be it not time for the Government to take decisive action both to identify victim of Horizon and to mass - exonerate those convict ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . that be exactly what we be try to do , and what the statement be all about . as I say , we have compensate 64 % of victim thus far with full and final compensation , and provide interim compensation to practically everybody who have come forward with a claim . she be right that we be disappointed that more people have not come forward to overturn their conviction . that be exactly the problem that we be try to solve , and we be look at innovative legal way to do that . as I say , we hope to have some news very shortly . I be glad that the Minister be assert the principle of ministerial responsibility , which have long be clear , ever since the Crichel Down case . even if the Minister be not personally responsible , he be responsible for what go wrong . when I be Minister for the Post Office , that be make clear to I . it be reprehensible that at least one of my successor be try to dodge the bullet and just say , " I be give the wrong advice . " if we own the Post Office , the Minister be responsible . that be a principle that we have to establish . look to the future , I have often be in touch with the Minister regard the view of David Ward , who be the president of the sub - postmaster north - east branch . what the branch want now be for a line to be draw under this , for compensation to be pay , for the reputation of the Post Office to be re - established and for the Post Office management to treat sub - postmaster properly from now on . I totally agree with my right hon . friend . as Ministers , we must bear responsibility for what we do , as well as expect people within the Post Office , Fujitsu and other to bear responsibility . as Ministers , we must serve a useful purpose . I totally agree about draw a line under this . that be exactly what we want to do , in two way : by overturn conviction and by pay full and final compensation . I be pleased to say that around 30 people with overturn conviction have be able to draw a line under it by be compensate fully for what happen to they . we should try to build on that , and make it happen much more quickly . that be what we be work on right now , and we hope to deliver solution in the very near future . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for the work that he be do to push the issue to a conclusion . I pay tribute to my constituent , Della Robinson , who be the sub - postmistress at Dukinfield post office in my constituency . she be convict in 2013 of false accounting . her conviction have be quash as part of the 555 , but she lose everything . she lose her shop , she lose her home , she lose her friend and she lose her reputation . head have to roll , because people be in the know at Fujitsu and at the Post Office . while I be not somebody who seek retribution , head really must roll in this case because of the life that be destroy . as a daughter of Denton , Paula Vennells really ought to do the right thing and hand back her CBE . on behalf of the Government and the Post Office , I apologise for what happen to Della Robinson . these be tragic case , as the hon . Gentleman say , with people lose not just their shop and their business but their home and the respect of their local community . that must have be devastating for she . she clearly have a route to compensation now , have overturn the conviction . there be either an immediate route through the fix - sum award , or there be the detailed assessment . if it be the detailed assessment , we be keen to ensure that it be deliver as quickly as possible to put Della — Mrs Robinson , I should say — back in the position she be in before the action of the Post Office . I agree that people individually must take responsibility . Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be there to identify who be responsible , exactly what they do or do not do and how that contribute to the scandal . where possible , those individual should be hold to account by any mean , include prosecution . certainly , it seem to be an obvious opportunity for those who have receive honour for service to the Post Office to return those honour voluntarily . if individual employee of the Post Office face serious criminal charge for malicious prosecution or criminal conspiracy , how would the Minister feel if it turn out that the Post Office propose to pay for their legal defence cost , give how it treat its own sub - postmaster ? I would not feel good about that at all . my right hon . friend make an important point . I will take it away and take advice on it . that would not seem to I to be an appropriate thing to do at all . on 19 August 2008 , my constituent Michael Rudkin , in his position as chairman of the National Federation of SubPostmasters , visit Fujitsu ' s headquarters in Bracknell and inadvertently witness IT engineer there secretly alter the account of sub - postmaster in Horizon . when the manager at Fujitsu realise what my constituent have see , they eject he from the building , and he travel back to his post office in Ibstock , where his wife Susan be his office manager . the next morning , Mr and Mrs Rudkin be subject to an early morning raid by the Post Office ' s inspector , who declare that a £ 44 , 000 deficit have appear on their computer overnight . criminal conviction result . I never believe it be a coincidence that the Post Office find this massive deficit shortfall on my constituent ' s computer the same day he uncover what Fujitsu be do . when I challenge Fujitsu , it say that Mr Rudkin have never be to its premise and it have lose the visitor ' book for the day in question . my constituent want to know who will be hold to account for more than a decade of false incrimination and humiliation suffer by my constituent . I thank the hon . gentleman for all his work on this matter . he have be a constant contributor to these debate to make sure that we see justice for his constituent and other people affect by this scandal . Mr Rudkin be one of the star of the show in the dramatisation , and I be so sorry to hear what happen to he and his wife through the Post Office ' s action . it seem incredibly coincidental that those two thing coincide — the visit to Fujitsu , what he discover at that point and then what happen the next day in discover a £ 44 , 000 shortfall in his account . we all now know that Fujitsu and the Post Office be able to amend the post office account . it seem incredibly coincidental , but also , as I say , brutal and cynical in term of what might have happen . we should let Sir Wyn Williams determine exactly what have happen and who be responsible before we judge and blame . I be just as keen as the hon . Gentleman to see individual hold to account for what happen in this scandal . may I echo the point make a few moment ago by my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) ? the Horizon computer system , which have be the cause of so much misery to so many postmaster and their family — include my constituent , Mr Alan Bates — be supply by Fujitsu , which continue to be pay to maintain it . Fujitsu be also the recipient of multimillion - pound contract from many public body , include Departments . indeed , it have recently have contract award by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Home Office and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . can my hon . friend say why a company that have be the cause of such distress to so many of our fellow citizen continue to be the beneficiary of public sector contract ? once again , I pay tribute to my right hon . friend ' s constituent , Alan Bates , who be very much the star of the show , both in the dramatisation and in reality . it be because of his tenacity and his commitment that this have come to light . the Horizon system be be rebuild . Fujitsu be not rebuild it , so the Post Office will move away from the current Horizon system , but it need a system today to cover one of the large retail network in the world . we need to make sure that it have a system it can use right now , but it will no long be Fujitsu ' s responsibility . as for other Government contract , we be of course look at those . whether it be contribute to compensation or look at access to Government contract , our view be that we should let Sir Wyn Williams complete his inquiry and report , and then make a decision on what happen , who be responsible and exactly what we will do about individual or organisation at that point in time . I thank the Minister for his statement and for recognise the work that I and other have do to highlight this scandal over many year . of course , the recognition should go to the many sub - postmaster , include my constituent , Chris Head , one of the 555 , for their tireless campaign for justice . I want to pick up the point make by the right hon . member for Clwyd West ( Mr Jones ) . last October , I ask the then Minister whether , in light of the Horizon and sub - postmaster scandal , he would pause exist contract with Fujitsu and undertake a review . I be pleased to hear that that be happen . we should pause exist contract and stop award Fujitsu multimillion - pound contract . Fujitsu continue to take billion of pound in profit , include £ 10 billion a year in Government contract , while our sub - postmaster await compensation . will the Minister agree to stop award contract to Fujitsu , and can he tell I how many contract have be give to it since this scandal come to light ? again , I thank the hon . Lady for her work on this , both in the House and in her engagement with other who have take a particular interest in the scandal . I also thank her constituent , Chris Head , who be a regular commenter on various point on Twitter , and I read his contribution all the time . he get his message across very effectively . let I be clear that we think that the right process be that we use Sir Wyn Williams ' s statutory inquiry to identify exactly who be responsible and what they be responsible for . at that point in time , we will decide whether it be right to give any organisation access to Government contract . that be the right process . of course we have concern about what have happen in the past and about that particular organisation , but we have to follow the process in order to make a decision about how we move forward . do my hon . friend agree that we should create a special legal process to more rapidly overturn these wrongful conviction , and to accelerate compensation , include for those who have not come forward ? will he take step to stop the Post Office prosecute and fight victim in court ? do he agree that it would be right for Paula Vennells to hand back her CBE , give her role in this disgraceful miscarriage of justice ? to answer : yes , yes and yes . yes , we want a rapid legal process , and that be exactly what we be discuss today . I be keen to deliver that as quickly as possible . the Post Office have stop prosecute — it have not prosecute since 2015 — but the Justice Secretary will look at the wide aspect of private prosecution . my thought on Paula Vennells be exactly the same as my hon . friend ' s . it be a perfect opportunity for she to hand back her CBE voluntarily . far down the line , if the Williams inquiry be able to assign blame , other potential avenue could be take . one of the most chilling part of the dramatisation reveal that dozen , if not hundred , of people be tell , " this be only happen to you . you be the only one who be report a problem with this system . " it be safe to assume that someone , or some individual , oversaw and dream up that particular corporate spin . may I push the Minister far , and ask whether he agree with many in the House that the Government now need to recover the bonus payment make to the executive who oversee that corporate lie ? I agree with that description . the dramatisation be indeed chill , not least that part of it . it make you feel physically sick to keep hear those word speak to individual postmaster : " it be only happen to you . " that be very disturbing , and it clearly must have be a corporate position . I share the hon . Gentleman ' s ambition when it come to what he regard as sanction , and indeed other sanction that be applicable , but I think we need to follow a process , particularly in respect of individual . we believe that the good route towards identify who be responsible and hold those people to account for what they do be Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his hard work in this area . like many other , I have be write to by people who will welcome the Minister ' s comment that he support the removal of the CBE from the former chief executive of the Post Office , but do he agree that remove a gong do not deliver justice , and nor do compensation ? it be not a question of retribution but a question of justice , so do he agree that if Post Office employee have erroneously accuse other of wrongdoing — whether negligently , recklessly or deliberately — they must feel the full force of the criminal law that they wrongly impose on other ? let I be clear about this . I be not take the position that we should remove the CBE , and that should not be our position , because we have not yet assign blame to individual . however , give that during that critical period the Post Office clearly fail in so many area and in so many shocking way , it would be sensible and reasonable for the former ceo to hand back an honour that be give for service to the Post Office . there may be other avenue , and my hon . friend be right to identify some of the potential avenue , but we think that Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be the good way to identify who be responsible . I agree with my hon . friend that this be not about retribution but about justice . I have speak to some of the victim of this scandal and other , and there be two thing that they want . obviously they want compensation , but they also want people to be hold to account , and I entirely share my hon . friend ' s ambition for that to be do . we have all be appal by the fact that the Post Office go on and on , for so many year , prosecute and ruin the life of sub - postmaster . it certainly make we ask who know what . as the Minister say , we want to ensure that this type of scandal can never happen again , so perhaps he will understand how disappointing it be that in December the Government stop short of agree to introduce a Hillsborough law to ensure that victim could secure the disclosure of crucial information and to place a duty of candour on all public servant . will he now talk to ministerial colleague about reconsider that decision ? we be very keen to find out exactly who know what , and Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be make statutory so that people could have access to all the information . there be nothing to which they should not have access , and all the disclosure should be available to the inquiry . that should lead to people be hold to account , and the exploring of other avenue in respect of what might be do at that point and the evidence that be uncover . I be not aware of the issue that the hon . Lady raise about what happen in December , but I be happy to take it away and look at it . the Horizon scandal be exactly that : an appalling scandal , which could potentially be continue today but for the commitment , dedication and effort of a small group of people who be determined to get to the truth . I hope that one of those people , Alan Bates , can finally accept the honour he deserve , but he will do that only when Paula Vennells do the correct thing and either hand back her CBE or be rightly strip of it . in the context of wide conviction , in Scotland the prosecution of individual rest solely with the Crown Office , and criminal case review be a devolved matter . what discussion have the UK Government or the Lord Chancellor have , or what discussion do they plan to have , with the Scottish Government and the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service to ensure that scottish victim of this scandal secure the justice that they deserve ? my hon . friend be right that Alan Bates have say he will not accept his OBE until Paula Vennells ' CBE have be withdraw . that be another good reason for she to hand back her CBE , because it would allow Alan to be recognise , quite rightly , through the honours process . my hon . friend raise a good point , and we be keen to ensure that anything we do be UK - wide , not just England - base , so I be sure that those conversation will take place . the conversation we have have with the Lord Chancellor have really only happen today . we need to get to a position that would resolve this situation and meet the requirement of the advisory board and other across the House . I be sure that that conversation will be go on between the Lord Chancellor and his counterpart in other part of the United Kingdom . in recent day , I have be write to by many constituent express their horror at the extent of this injustice and , indeed , their outrage that honest , innocent sub - postmaster such as Mr Noel Thomas be not only convict but imprison for a crime they do not commit — indeed , a crime that have not in fact happen . those constituent will be glad to hear about some of the action the Minister have outline to accelerate not only the exoneration of those who be wrongly convict but the payment of compensation . the Minister refer to those who be impact by this scandal but who might not have be convict themselves . one sub - postmaster in my constituency pay up for a shortfall that have not actually occur , because of the pressure and the fear of conviction . do we have firm information about , and a grasp of , how many sub - postmaster and former sub - postmaster might find themselves in that position ? be it not now for the Post Office to reach out to those individual to ensure that they come forward for compensation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . yes , as I say , we be keen to exonerate more people more quickly ; that be exactly what we intend to do and what we have be look at today , and we hope to give more information as quickly as possible . we want there to be quick , easy exoneration and also easy compensation . that be exactly the opportunity that the scheme for overturn conviction deliver . People can take a more detailed assessment route , where it take time to compile and respond to a claim , or they can simply move past that system and take a fix award of £ 600 , 000 , which be available to anybody who have an overturn conviction . that should encourage more people to come forward . in term of other people who have shortfall but have not be convict , there be the Horizon shortfall scheme . some 2 , 417 people apply to that scheme within the timescale . about another 500 , I think , apply after time , but they have still be accept into the scheme . anybody in that position should have access to compensation . one hundred per cent of the people in the original cohort — the 2 , 417 — have have offer , and 85 % have accept , so we be make significant progress . all postmaster should have be communicate with and write to , but if the hon . Gentleman be aware of any postmaster affect who have not be , I be happy to work with he to make sure they can access compensation . this be the bad scandal in the history of the Post Office since it be first establish in 1660 . that be the year of the restoration after the english civil war . in that same year , Parliament pass an Act of Oblivion , which exonerate all those who have previously oppose the Crown and which facilitate , through Parliament , a blanket royal pardon . might not that sort of mechanism , together with swift compensation , be the most appropriate way to bring justice to all the affected sub - postmaster ? my hon . friend ' s knowledge of history be great than mine , but the essence of what he say be something we concur with . whether by mean of the route he mention or other route , we be keen to ensure that we make it easy to overturn conviction , ideally without the postmaster have to do anything . that be something we be look at now but , again , we need to have conversation with the judiciary and other element of the system to make sure that there be no unintended consequence from what we be do — in term of precedent , for example . however , our ambition be exactly the same as my hon . friend ' s . follow on from what the hon . member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) say , the chair of the independent advisory board , Professor Chris Hodges , be also suggest that a simple piece of legislation could be introduce to the House , which would ensure pardon en masse and quickly . will the Minister speak in particular about compensation for bereaved family where former sub - postmaster or sub - postmistress take their own life ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and again pay tribute to the work of the advisory board , include the chair Professor Chris Hodges , Professor Richard Moorhead , Lord Arbuthnot and the right hon . member for North Durham . it have do fantastic work and I hope to attend its meeting on Wednesday , where we will discuss some of these issue . it be a further tragedy , of course , for the bereaved family . I have a family in my constituency in exactly that situation . the same amount of compensation should be make available to the family . I know that that be cold comfort for many people in that situation , but it be the least we can do to ensure that at least some compensation be pay to the family , who will also have be affect by this scandal . there be one aspect that have not be touch on yet : the role of the National Federation of SubPostmasters . Mark Baker , a former sub - postmaster , be elect to the executive council in 2001 . he later give write evidence to the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee in March 2020 , state that the nfsp have " be aware of the issue with the Horizon system for many year " , but effectively successive ceo have be compromise by a grant funding agreement with Post Office Ltd . will the Minister , whose own determined persistence on this matter I much admire , confirm that the role of the nfsp be be look at by the Williams inquiry ? this should have be the union that speak up for the sub - postmaster . I suspect that there be many lesson to be learn , as well as find out who know what in the nfsp . my hon . friend make a very important point . I engage with the nfsp , Calum Greenhow and other . I think there be a well relationship now between the network and the nfsp , but it be important that it be a representative relationship . nevertheless , my hon . friend raise a very important point . there be nowhere that the statutory inquiry can not look to identify responsibility . he point it in a certain direction that I be sure it will be aware of , but it may well listen to his comment on the Floor of the House today and look at it as a consequence . only last year , when the sheer scale of the scandal have already be uncover , the ceo and senior Post Office leader be award ten of thousand of pound in bonus for their work on the inquiry into Post Office failing . meanwhile , some of the victim of the scandal have die while wait for compensation . this have outrage my constituent , constitute as it do incompetence and insensitivity on stilt . the Minister have today commit to ensure and expedite justice for the victim of this scandal , and that be widely welcome , but what step be he prepare to take to ensure the recovery , in full , of all bonus pay to Post Office leader ? certainly in term of what the hon . Lady regard as the sub - metric — the work of the Post Office contribute towards the inquiry — we accept that should never have be the case . all the people who receive bonus at senior leadership level have voluntarily return the bonus that be attach to that sub - metric . I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about the number of people who have pass away while wait for compensation . that be a tragedy in itself . we be keen to deliver compensation as quickly as possible and make sure that the family of those individual who have pass away get access to compensation as quickly as possible . in April 2022 , I be contact by a former Guildford constituent , sub - postmaster Abdul Sathar Abdeen , through his wife Vanessa , both now locate in Sri Lanka . between 1999 and 2005 , they spend thousand of pound settling shortfall , include sell a property in Sri Lanka . by the time news of compensation reach they in Sri Lanka , the scheme have close . will my hon . friend confirm that those who have be impact and now live abroad be able to apply for compensation ? I be sorry to hear what have happen to Mrs Abdeen . I assume that my hon . friend be talk about the Horizon shortfall scheme , and my official and I be very happy to work with she to make sure that any late application be consider . it sound like this be a late application , and I be happy to work with her offline . I thank the Minister for his work and for his constructive statement . when can we expect Fujitsu to be hold accountable and to pay significant compensation to those affect ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word . we should not prejudge the outcome of the inquiry . it be a statutory inquiry , and we should respect the process it be undertake . it be due to conclude later this year , and we hope for a report very shortly afterwards . at that point , we should be able to determine who be responsible and what action should be take to make sure that their action be properly deal with in term of individual responsibility or corporate responsibility , which may include a contribution to the compensation fund . the excellent tv drama bring home to million of people what I and many member of this House already know , which be the trauma cause to individual people . on a wide scale , it surely mean that the Government must look again at the accountability of many of these arm ' s length agency , which be operationally independent . we need to look again at governance , management , ministerial responsibility and how member of this House can hold they to proper account . I agree that accountability be key . I think it be fair to say that my Department have learn lesson on governance . I spend a lot of time meet the Post Office and , indeed , the Government ' s representative on the Post Office board , UK Government Investments , to make sure that we have proper oversight of this arm ' s length body . my hon . friend be probably refer to something wide than the Post Office — other arm ' s length body — and he raise a very important point to which we should certainly give consideration . I understand how complicated it be to calculate compensation for individual . my constituent ' s number disappear off their screen as transaction be be put through . will the Minister ensure that more resource be put into support the process so that compensation can be pay more expediently ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . these be complex matter , and there be two end to the compensation journey . one be the compilation of a claim by the claimant , which may include legal advice and assessment of health condition , for example , so it can take time to compile a claim . under the GLO scheme , which be the most recent scheme , we have commit to respond to 90 % of claim within 40 day . we believe we have the right level of resource at our end to make sure we can respond fairly and quickly . the assessment be make on the compensation side by independent individual and panel . we think it be a good process and we think it be resource properly but , of course , we will continue to give it proper oversight . no current or former sub - postmaster in the Waveney constituency have be in touch with I before today , but I have receive two email today from constituent whose life have effectively be destroy . this raise two question . how many people be simply bully and intimidate into keep quiet and pay up ? and what justice and recompense will be available to they ? although it be tragic to hear that anybody have be involve in these kind of case , it be good to hear that people be come forward . again , one of the add benefit of the dramatisation be that people be more willing to come forward , and we have see a good number come forward . I be very happy to make sure that my hon . friend ' s constituent be point in the right direction and that they have access to the appropriate scheme to get compensation , because they should be compensate to the degree of both their non - pecuniary loss , for any impact on , for example , their health or any distress or reputational issue , and of their financial situation , as we return they to the position they be in prior to the episode take place . we be keen that his constituent get access to those scheme . as both a defence agent and as Justice Secretary , I be aware that even a postie who fail to deliver the mail , let alone a sub - postmaster who steal the mail , face a custodial sentence . that be view as correct and I accept it , because there be occupation where probity be essential and where exemplary sentence be require to be impose . but this be bad and it be wide . this be a conspiracy to silence . it be a conspiracy by those with reputational , financial and institutional interest to bury the little person and to obtain conviction . they know conviction be come . I believe that the integrity of our justice system and indeed of our society require that nobody be above the rule of law and that , where such action take place , exemplary sentence be impose . will the Minister seek to ensure that ? that be exactly what we want to do and that be why we set up the statutory inquiry to try to identify culpability and responsibility . whether that lead to corporate sanction , in term of contribution to compensation scheme , or individual who might face prosecution or other sanction , that be absolutely right . of course there will be different agency look at different thing that the inquiry uncover as part of its process , include not only crime agency , but the Honours Forfeiture Committee . we be very keen to ensure that that happen . the hon . Gentleman mention financial incentive — as Charlie Munger once say , " show I the incentive and I ' ll show you the outcome . " I be sure that play a part in some of the terrible mistreatment of postmaster . as I have state previously in this House , the Horizon scandal be an absolute travesty . my thank , as should all our thank , go to Alan Bates , for his relentless work to stand up for victim — and they be victim of one of the bad miscarriage of justice this country have ever see . while I be very aware of the legal complexity and the challenge around right these wrong as we go through the various stage , will my hon . friend , who I know be passionate about get this right , confirm that he be work at the very high level of Government to ensure that any blockage , delay or stuttering in this process be clear through ? do he agree that every single current Member of Parliament — all 650 — and every Member of Parliament in the future should make sure not only to watch the ITV drama series , but to read " the Great Post Office Scandal " by Nick Wallis , which originally help to shine a light on this appalling scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work as one of my predecessor . he be an excellent postal affair Minister — for all too brief a time , I think it be fair to say , but he do a great job , and I know some of the thing he put in place in this area be important to the whole process . of course we be work at the high level : the Prime Minister be take a personal interest in these matter , so I see no barrier in term of willingness to right these wrong from anywhere in Government , right to the high possible level . I have a meeting with the Justice Secretary today , who offer some positive way forward in the next few day . I completely agree with my hon . friend that we should all watch that programme to learn lesson about not only this particular scandal , but the potential for future scandal base on the same kind of motivation . he mention the " the Great Post Office Scandal " , write by the excellent journalist Nick Wallis , who have be such an important part of uncover the truth of this horrendous scandal . Harjinder Singh Butoy , my constituent , not only lose his business , lose his home and be bankrupt , but have the agony of be sentence to 18 month in prison for something he know he have never do . justice , for Mr Singh Butoy , be not just get he the compensation he still wait for ; it be see those who sit by , know that he be the victim of an injustice , and watch he go to prison face justice themselves . while it be absolutely crucial that the statutory inquiry take on all the information it need to , it be important that we get justice as quickly as possible . what can the Minister say about how we can ensure that the importance of get all the information do not mean that this process go on for year and year , as with other miscarriage of justice we have see in the past ? it be tragic to hear about what happen to Mr Singh Butoy ; I thank the hon . gentleman for his work in draw awareness to that case . as I say , people in these situation want two thing : rapid compensation and the holding to account of the people responsible . we be keen to deliver on those two key thing . we want to make it easy to overturn conviction and , once that have happen — from what the hon . Gentleman have say , it seem that Mr Singh Butoy ' s conviction have be overturn — we want there to be access to rapid compensation , which we can deliver through the fix - sum award or the full assessment route . we also want to make sure that we hold people to account . Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be responsible for identify exactly what go wrong and who be responsible . it be due to report later this year ; we do not want it to carry on for year , but we want to give it the time and breathe space to do its job properly and we do not want to put any artificial limit on its ability to do that . we hope that the inquiry will end this year and report shortly after . we be keen that any action against organisation or individual can be take at that time . as my hon . friend know from meeting and debate , my constituent , sub - postmistress Nichola Arch , move I to tear when she describe the public shaming and abuse that happen in our usually kind Stroud constituency at the time of the scandal . her grow - up child have only ever know she as the post office lady fight faceless corporation who lose job and her house in the meantime . give how people be treat and their loss , there be no one type of victim . that make the issue hellishly complicated and it be really difficult to compile evidence . will my hon . friend use the national energy now behind this case to work with his excellent official , who have work incredibly hard on this , to simplify the scheme yet far ? for example , could the £ 600 , 000 lump sum be do at level that require limited and define evidence , so that people be not exhausted yet far ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and her work on behalf of Nichola Arch , whose case be one of the most prominent in this scandal . she be right to say that assess loss be complicated , which be exactly why I work with official . I agree with her description of they as excellent ; they be just as passionate about deliver compensation as member of this House . we be work on a daily basis . my hon . friend be also right to say that the fix - sum award for overturn conviction simplify thing significantly . a significant number of people have full and final settlement on an overturned conviction — 30 people have choose that route so far . but I hear what my hon . friend be say about a simplified process in other area of compensation . that be certainly something we be work on and look at wherever we can . ITV and the power of drama deserve our praise for galvanise Government action far fast than the question I have be ask here since 2020 . as well as Mr Bates there be Mr Patel , who be force to give a false confession to avoid prison . he have the humiliation of attend the graduation of his son , my constituent Varchas , while electronically tag . despite Mr Patel ' s conviction have be quash in 2020 , he have have zilch compensation and suffer huge ill health . can the Minister sort that , make sure that head roll and make good on Paula Vennells ' s promise to I in 2018 , when she pull the plug on Acton crown post office , that we will get a post office again ? we be still wait . I thank the hon . Lady for her question and work on behalf of Mr Patel . if Mr Patel ' s conviction be overturn in 2020 , he should have receive £ 163 , 000 in interim compensation , which be make available to anybody with an overturned conviction . he can also access two route : either a fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 or the full assessment route . he can make a decision base on whatever level of compensation he and his adviser think he be due . one route be undoubtedly quick than the other due to the complex nature of assess claim . I agree with the hon . Lady about people be hold accountable , as I say in my statement and in response to other member . pick up her point about Acton post office , Paula Vennells do not have much influence over that any more , but we can ask question about that on the hon . Lady ' s behalf . when I first become an MP , I meet two constituent who have suffer as a result of the Horizon scandal . I be strike by the utter betrayal they feel . they have lose the job they love and that they have see as a form of public service , serve their community for many decade . I welcome everything that the Minister have set out on future action , but may I push back gently on his suggestion that the network be in a good place today and that there be no reputational damage ? in the town of Porthleven and in Newlyn , a large village , we can not get a business to touch the Post Office . can the Minister do more work to restore the reputation of the Post Office , so that people have the service of a sub - postmaster or sub - postmistress where they need they ? my hon . friend be right to point out the nature of the public service provide by sub - postmaster . the great passion and the store set by sub - postmaster , such as Jo Hamilton , about their role in the community and the service they provide to that community come across loud and clear in the ITV broadcast . it be not just about lose a job , but about lose their place in the community , so my hon . friend be right to draw attention to that . it be important to resolve these situation quickly now , for the reputation of the Post Office , overturn conviction and get compensation out of the door to everyone affect by the scandal , and we be work towards that every day . the post office network be still revere across the country , so I believe it still have a strong reputation at an individual level , but we must make the network more sustainable and viable . if the network be more lucrative , that will attract more people into become sub - postmaster . we be work on that all the time , through initiative such as the banking framework and other opportunity . many constituent have contact I look for swift and straightforward action . I be interested in what the Minister have outline , but it will be important to see further flesh on the bone as we progress , and very quickly . I would like to hear more from he about how we can well deal with those hard - to - reach case , such as people who may have walk away absolutely scunnered and significantly out of pocket , who may not come forward without the concerted action that they deserve . the protract nature of the issue have dampen people ' s enthusiasm for take on a post office — we can not shy away from that and our community deserve that we do not do so . in my constituency , the post office in Neilston will close on Saturday in what be know as a " temporary closure " , but it be only temporary if someone will come forward to take it on . too many community in East Renfrewshire and far afield do not have post office , which be essential . I take on board what the Minister have say , but what more can be do , over and above what he have set out ? much more be need to make sure that people have the confidence to take on the post office that our community need so much . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . she be right that we need to make the compensation scheme and the overturning of conviction swifter and more straightforward , and she be right to point to the fact that some people be reluctant to come forward in the first place . we be keen to deliver a solution that do not require sub - postmaster to come forward in order for we to overturn a conviction , as have be call for by member of this House . we have be look at that and we be work on it right now . I represent a rural constituency and the Government provide significant financial support of £ 50 million a year for rural post office . we be determined to restore the reputation of post office through this work and make they more financially stable generally , by increase the remuneration opportunity for postmaster . we think that be the route that will ensure people will come forward and run post office in rural location , which be as important to I as it be to the hon . Lady . I apologise because this will obviously be repetitive , but the action and governance of the Post Office have be incomprehensible . many people will only have realise what have happen because they see the ITV programme — I encourage they all to come to I or to any other MP if they do not know where to go to . I first engage with this situation as a member of the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee along with colleague in March 2020 , and it shock I then as it do now . for I , the most shocking aspect , as have be repeat across the House , be the number of people who be tell they be the only one . the obvious cover - up from people within the Post Office deliver those statement be wrong , shocking and outrageous . can I encourage the Minister to do everything he can to ensure that those people feel the full force of the law so that the sub - postmaster , who be the real victim , feel like they have get some justice at the end of this outrageous situation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I reassure he that repetition be no barrier to contribution in this place , as he will recognise . I also thank he for his work on the Select Committee , which be hugely important . we hear the word " you ' re the only one " time and again in those dramatisation . it be horrific . it be a blatant lie , and somebody must have know that it be a blatant lie . those lie lead to some people go to jail and other suffer other form of financial detriment , and detriment to their health and that of their family . should prosecution flow from that wherever possible ? I would say yes . I share the thought of almost everyone — there have be almost cross - party unanimity on this issue — but I be still worried about the ongoing treatment of sub - postmaster and their liability . in 2018 , my local post office be subject to an armed robbery . those who run the post office be haul up to the regional office , where they be interrogate . they feel like criminal . they be not allow to bring their rep from the Communication Workers Union ; they be tell they could bring rep only from the National Federation of SubPostmasters , which they have no trust in . in the end , although of course they be find not to have give over the money willingly , they leave and hand over the post office to someone else . there be a problem with the liability of sub - postmaster , and particularly the fact that the Post Office have close Crown post office , which would not have such liability . will the Minister look again at how liability work for sub - postmaster ? I echo the call that we should look again at private prosecution . the ccrc say in its 2020 report that the private prosecution process be haphazard and the fact that the Government do not even know what private prosecution be go on , because there be no central register , be detrimental to the very reform they might need to make . will the Minister at least look at have a central register of private prosecution , and a regulatory overview , possibly of the Crown Prosecution Service ? it be create for the very purpose of separate prosecution from the police , and we now need to do that for other public service as well . I thank the hon . member for raise that troubling case , which I be happy to look into on his behalf , if he would like . I think he say that case be in 2018 , since when I feel there have be a change in relationship between the Post Office and the network — I be not say that it be universally good or universally support by the network , but there have be some improvement — include the recruitment of 100 regional manager , so there be more of a relationship - base approach between the network and Post Office Ltd . on private prosecution , as I say early , we should look at that in the context of this particular scandal as well as the wide connotation of private prosecution . the Justice Secretary have commit to do that , and I be sure that he will report to the House in due course and take on board the Justice Committee ' s important recommendation on this matter . the Minister have today provide the House with what I see as three key assurance : namely , that compensation will be pay quickly to all victim ; that wrongful conviction will be overturn ; and that those responsible , whether from the Post Office , Fujitsu or elsewhere , will be hold to account , ideally with criminal prosecution . do he agree ? can he reassure my constituent in Bracknell that a judicial system that preside over so many wrongful conviction will also be review ? my hon . friend be right ; rapid and fair compensation be exactly what we be seek to deliver . it have to be see to be fair . we also need an easy route to overturn conviction , and we be determined to take that forward , as well as individual be hold to account . he raise an important point on the judicial system , and potentially the trust we place upon computer record seem to have play a part in this case . that be a lesson we potentially need to learn across the legal framework , and I know the Justice Secretary have that in mind . the Minister be aware that this be not just about those who be wrongly accuse and convict ; it be also about those who be falsely accuse , be not prosecute but who still experience consequence . I have a constituent who believe she be a victim of Horizon false accusation . she lose her post office franchise as a consequence , but the associate pressure lead to she lose her main business as well . can the Minister confirm whether she would be eligible for compensation ? how do she go about access compensation ? for similar victim of false accusation without prosecution who sadly have die , how do the deceased ' s family access compensation ? there be three compensation scheme for good reason — it be not ideal to have three different scheme , but we be where we find ourselves . we have the Horizon shortfall scheme , the group litigation order scheme and the overturn conviction scheme , and it sound as though the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent would fit into the Horizon shortfall scheme and should be able to apply to that . I be happy to make sure that he be aware of the route that his constituent can take . in assess financial loss , consequential loss be a part of that assessment , and it sound as though there be a case for consequential loss in that particular case . it can certainly be something that financial compensation take into account . with regard to the family of deceased individual , they can still claim to the same compensation scheme and should be compensate in exactly the same manner and to exactly the same degree . the building on Queens Road in Craig - y - Don in my constituency , where Alan Bates serve the community as sub - postmaster , be now a charity shop . it be one small reminder of the damage that have be do to life and livelihood across the country . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his tone . I welcome the progress that the Government be make , but I also know that he have see the interim report from the inquiry . he have hear the mood of the House this evening , which be that a great scandal require a great response . do he agree with I that , in addition to prompt payment of fair compensation , now be the time to consider legislation for the overturning of unsafe conviction , to consider the power of the Post Office and to consider Fujitsu ' s status as a framework provider for Government contract ? do he agree that we need to see justice where actual wrongdoing have occur , and soon ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that he have do on this , and I share his ambition on deliver . this have be a great scandal and we need a significant response to it . our discussion today with the Lord Chancellor be very much along the line of attempt to do something unprecedented in this space , and we be work on that right now . I hope to give my hon . friend something more definite in that regard in the come day . with regard to Fujitsu and individual , we think it be right for the inquiry to be give time to ascertain who do what , who do not do what , and who be responsible for the scandal . when the inquiry report in due course — it should be conclude by the end of this year , with a report hopefully soon after — we should be able to make decision on those area at that point . certainly , our prosecution authority should be able to make decision with clear sight of the information and the evidence that have be ascertain . I thank the Minister very much for his clear commitment and dedication to this issue . on both side of the Chamber , we be impressed that he want to find a solution and a way forward . I commend the ITV drama , which clearly illustrate the impact on the ordinary , normal , wee people — as they say themselves — and the brutality of the Post Office Horizon scheme on good people who be so badly wrong . all of we in this Chamber be here as elect representative to speak up for those people who be badly wrong . have see some of the horrific effect — in particular , a 20 - year - old girl be imprison because of the defective scheme and have her entire life mar by that system — I seek clarity about the possibility of the Minister oversee not just a vital and necessary reimbursement scheme but an official pardoning scheme to have the record wipe in England , Scotland , Wales and for we in Northern Ireland . as the only MP from Northern Ireland in the Chamber at the moment , I wish to see the same justice and compensation for those people as well . I thank the hon . member for his contribution and his kind word . even though I be very familiar with all the detriment that postmaster have experience due to the scandal , the most shocking part of the dramatisation be the brutality show by some of the Post Office manager — it be inconceivable . I completely share how appalled he be by what he see in the programme . anybody who have not see it should watch it . across the board , we be look very closely at overturn conviction . we be determined to do that not just for England but UK - wide , and we be work with the devolved administration to make sure that we do something right across the piece . although there be different prosecution authority in different part of the UK — in Scotland , for example — the Post Office seem to have be involve in the compilation of those file in every part of the United Kingdom , so it make sense to have a scheme that cover every part of the United Kingdom . I thank the Minister for his statement and for all his effort on this issue over a long period . I echo his tribute to all those who have campaign on this issue for many year . the Post Office Horizon IT scandal be an outrageous miscarriage of justice , affect so many innocent postmaster and their family . many constituent have contact I to express their concern and outrage over this miscarriage of justice . will my hon . friend reassure I , the House and the country that this Government will do all they can to compensate all the victim as soon as possible , include by look at exonerate they all collectively , so that this wrong can be make right both swiftly and compassionately ? my constituent have also write to I , appal and outrage at what have happen . again , we should pay tribute to the people behind the programme who have bring it to the public ' s attention . I agree ; we be look for a process where all victim can be compensate quickly . we have compensation scheme in place already , and 64 % of those affect have be compensate . on overturn conviction , we be look at a collective exoneration to see what be legally possible . that would open the door to rapid , immediate compensation of £ 600 , 000 for people who choose that route . the full assessment take more time , and people would have to choose the right route for they . it should deliver on all the ambition that he set out . this disgraceful scandal reach every single part of the country , include in Scotland , where the Crown Office hold prosecutorial power rather than the Post Office . in 2020 , the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission identify 73 potential victim , of whom only 16 have come forward to date . clearly , there be still work to do to get the message out to people that they be entitle to have their conviction look at . of course , the scheme only reach the people who have a conviction in the first place — many affect by the scandal never have their case take forward but still lose their reputation and their livelihood . today , the First Minister of Scotland say that he will look at a mass exoneration in relation to these conviction , and I think that be the right approach . I wonder whether the Minister will confirm that he and the Lord Chancellor will take that forward in England , because across the whole of the UK , we need a system where everyone understand what will happen next , so that no victim anywhere in the country who be affect by this scandal be leave with justice not serve . again , I share the hon . member ' s ambition in every part of his remark . we , too , be disappointed that we have not have more people come forward to have their conviction overturn , for a number of different reason . those people have be write to several time by different body , include the ccrc . we be keen to get the message out , but we do not think that that be the whole problem . we think there be a confidence issue for some of those people in come forward after so many year , after what have happen to they , so we be very keen to say to they , " you will be treat fairly and deal with as quickly as possible . " a mass exoneration scheme , as the hon . Member describe it , be something we be look at . I can not confirm that today on the Floor of the House , but we certainly think that that kind of blanket overturning of conviction , together with a rapid compensation scheme , will mean that more people get access to justice more quickly . that be something we be very keen on , and to deliver it UK - wide would absolutely be the right thing to do . as a former sub - postmaster , last week ' s drama bring up many emotion from my time serve from 2014 to 2019 . I have mention Fujitsu five time in this Chamber , ask five time about its involvement . we now know , finally , that it have a back door into the live system . Minister , when will Fujitsu face justice for its utter incompetence in all of this ? how can it be make to contribute compensation for the many postmaster with claim , instead of that be do the taxpayer , who be not responsible for this scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for be a constant contributor to these debate . he bring real - life experience of these matter , which we very much value and appreciate . I would be very happy to keep up our regular engagement on these issue . he be not shy of inform I of different thing that I need to be aware of and I appreciate that engagement . of course , the back door into the sub - postmaster account seem to have be a key contributor to this scandal , and Fujitsu seem to have have that back door . we be yet to establish how much of that be Fujitsu do it unilaterally or whether it be be do on the instruction of the Post Office . the inquiry be there to give we those kind of answer . the inquiry be commit to conclude by the end of this year and report shortly after . at that point , we will know who be responsible for what , and we should then be able to identify who can be make responsible through potential financial contribution , rather than the taxpayer alone have to pick up the tab for this very significant compensation package . I be just as ambitious as my hon . friend be to make sure that those who be responsible pay for what they have do . I , too , pay tribute to the ITV drama — many constituent have write to I about how powerful it be — and to the BBC ' s podcast , " the Great Post Office Trial " , which I listen to a couple of year ago . Horizon be accounting software , yet at every turn it seem that it lack the very principle of account that those who study the fundamental in accounting recognise . where be the check and balance in the system , and why do the governance of the Post Office also lack the same check and balance ? it appear that no reconciliation be do to cross - check the software , and the principle of integrity , objectivity , professional competence and due care be clearly not apply to this critical software in the way that accountant be hold to they in the code of ethic . after many year , why be we only now hear that there be a fail pilot and that that could have avert this disgraceful abuse of power and miscarriage of justice ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution . I , too , have have many constituent contact I who be appal by what they have see on television . she be right to draw attention to the fact that this be not the first time that this have be publicise . there be Nick Wallis ' s book , " the Great Post Office Scandal " , and his podcast , which be well worth listen to . he go into these matter in even great depth , and she be right to pay tribute to those broadcast and publication . all the question that the hon . Member ask be valid . when be it establish that this be go wrong ? where be the check and balance ? where be the duty of care ? that be what the inquiry be there for . the inquiry be establish after the court case and there be vigorous debate in this House about the type of inquiry it should be . it be ultimately settle on that it should be a statutory inquiry because of the great power that a statutory inquiry have , so it should be able to get to the bottom of the question she rightly ask . once we have get to the bottom of those question , we can start to identify who be responsible specifically for what and make sure that those people be hold to account . I thank the Minister for his work on this really important issue . it be a really heartbreaking story of injustice , and I be sure we would agree that it have be allow to drag on for far too long . it be incredibly heartening for I that so many constituent be move by the powerful ITV dramatisation to write to I about this injustice and ask what I will be do about it as their MP , but it be also tragic to see that it have to come to this , after year of powerful and brave campaigning by some of the postmaster affect . we owe it to they to act with the urgency the situation require . while I acknowledge that the Minister have set out some challenge in give certainty about timeline today , can he at least provide a timeline for when we will be able to say with certainty that everyone affect will have receive compensation and that all those who be wrongfully convict will have their conviction overturn ? alongside that , accountability be such an important issue here , and I would welcome some detail from he on how he will work with colleague from different party to make sure that all those who be accountable , include Fujitsu , be hold to account . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . I agree that it have take too long to get to this point . if it be not for people like Alan Bates , some of the journalist who be refer to early , Lord Arbuthnot , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and many other , this may have never come to light , but it have take too long . we need to act with pace and as quickly as possible to expedite many thing here , as we have refer to already . we be keen to overturn conviction very quickly . it may require legislation , and I be sure we will get support from both side of the House for any legislation we may need . the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) be right to push we on timeline . as we have say , we be keen to deliver compensation , wherever possible , by August this year . we want to overturn conviction as rapidly as possible . ideally , we would like it to take week , not month , to do that , but it will obviously be dependent on a number of factor . the compensation will come through all three scheme . the first scheme have practically be deliver for the 2 , 417 people who apply within the appropriate timescale . one hundred per cent of those people have be make offer , and 85 % of they have accept . there be some people who apply to the remain scheme out of time , so we be work on those application right now and hope to deliver they as quickly as possible . I think 75 % of they have be make offer , but we be leave with the GLO scheme and the overturn conviction scheme . we hope to overturn the conviction by August this year , if not far soon than that . that be a very important statement and be much need . I thank the Minister for stay at the Dispatch Box for so long . I also thank ITV , because it have certainly make the country aware of this absolute scandal against innocent people . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the urgent question and statement today have run for significantly long than anticipate . the Horizon statement have be give significant time , which be right give the seriousness and gravity of the issue . the second reading of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill will therefore not take place this evening . it be a significant piece of legislation that be crucial to the UK ' s energy security , and it can not be properly debate between now and 10 o ' clock . the Leader of the House will update the House in the usual way on the date for which the Bill will be reschedule . however , I fully expect it to be within the next two week . offshore PETROLEUM Licensing Bill Bill to be read a second time tomorrow . Rural Transport Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) how nice it be to see you come back to the Chair , Mr Speaker , when your instinct must have suggest that you go elsewhere . I want to raise with the House a bizarre issue . for some reason , the Order Paper seem to have be misprint . for example , it have give I an " s " on the end of my name . also bizarrely , the presentation of the fix - term Parliaments Bill seem to have disappear . I can not understand what happen to the leader of the Liberal Democrats , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , and why he would not want to be here — order . just to help , that might be the case , but it be not a matter for the Adjournment , as you well know , so get on with your Adjournment debate instead . I be clearly far too nice to you , Mr Speaker . let we start with the fact that 21 . 3 % of the english population live in a predominately rural area . that be 12 million people who can contribute even more towards economic growth . yet without great thought about investment in infrastructure and innovation for transport in rural region , that untapped potential be not be maximise . the Government have do much to support transport link with the north and in the devolved nation , despite the vibrant though poorly connect local economy in area such as North Herefordshire . to maximise our growth and ensure that we meet our climate ambition , as a nation we can not afford to leave anyone behind . rural resident be distinctive because they be absolutely reliant on road . some 96 % of journey be make on local highway in the UK , and local road make up 98 % of the highway network in England . road improvement can , unsurprisingly , have a significant impact on rural area . in Herefordshire , the town of Leominster would benefit immensely from a northern link road — a brilliant £ 12 million investment that I raise some time ago . of course , nobody should ever forget the tragedy and vandalism of the famous and now much - miss Hereford bypass . it would have make a phenomenal improvement to the city ' s air quality and congestion . everybody should remember that the opportunity for fund our bypass be idiotically throw away by Herefordshire ' s previous Green and independent council — a phenomenal failure for which they must never be forgive . today , in try to rectify that , we be limit by the cyclical nature of Government funding cycle . I live in hope that a funding window for the future Hereford bypass will open before 2030 . the long cycle benefit civil servant , but leave vital short - term development at the mercy of local authority , which may themselves face funding constraint . local project be of course dependent on local planning rule ; however , central Government can do much more to facilitate those project by provide capital for road to local authority at short notice period . I be delighted to learn that Herefordshire Council will receive an additional £ 1 . 8 million to help to repair the county ' s road . I praise the Government for redirect fund from HS2 in that way . the importance of such funding can not be overestimate in rural region where car dependence be so high . the hon . Gentleman be right about rural road and transport . at my advice centre , just this Saturday past , one issue that local people bring to my attention be the contact between village and local town , and the rural transport reduction there have be . as the hon . Gentleman and I know , it be so important for people who live out in the rural community to have connectivity with village and town such as Newtownards in my constituency . do he agree that there need to be more rural transport on the road to help people get to big town and have a normal life ? I believe the hon . Gentleman be name as one of the busy parliamentarian , so I be very pleased that my Adjournment debate have not miss his attention . of course , I agree with he . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this Adjournment debate on such an important topic . like his Herefordshire constituency , my East Devon constituency have run through it an a - road that be pot with dangerous pothole . I be pleased to hear that we might soon receive additional money for deal with those pothole , but do he agree that level up be not just for village in rural area such as our but also a concept that need to be apply to the road surface ? I notice that the hon . Gentleman keep look at note . that be how it be in the countryside : we have to keep look for the pothole all around we . I absolutely agree . it strike I , as my hon . friend describe the situation in Herefordshire , that he could be talk about Wales . I know that some three quarter of the population there live within 90 minute of Cardiff , but the reality of life for many across Wales be that it be a rural country . do he agree that the policy be pursue by the Labour Government in Wales — the curtailing of road development , the constant attack on driver , and now the 20 mph speed limit impose across pretty much most part of the country — be hinder economic growth and hurt rural economy and community that depend on road transport ? I do not agree with my hon . friend that the road in Wales be bad — in fact , I will talk about that in a moment — but I do agree about the 20 mph speed limit . the people of north Wales be lucky to have member such as he look out for their interest when their effort to get to work , see their family and go shopping be completely sabotage by the lunacy of the Welsh Government , who seem to think that people should be go even slow than they already be . there be an image of a wonderful scene in " Pretty Woman " where Julia Roberts be lean into the car , and the caption say : " no , I ' m not look for a good time . I ' m just follow the 20 mph speed limit . " I think that say it all about the madness of the Welsh Government . member will remember that image later . safe road mean less congestion and therefore few emission . that be really important . driver can save up to an estimate £ 440 on their vehicle repair bill when road be properly maintain . I hope to see continuous Government support for road maintenance in rural community . I be not usually keen to ask Ministers to spend a single penny of taxpayer ' money , but as a road tax payer I believe that car driver have every right to expect that their hard - earn money will be use to maintain the infrastructure for which it be levy . the misspending of that funding mean that hypothecation be justify for road tax . the Treasury take money from car driver to fund overpay train driver and an inefficient Network Rail that could have be privatise year ago . More money be waste on bus lane , cycle path and not - very - smart motorway , yet the wretched pothole escape unrepaire . in Herefordshire , we have more road per capita than any other county . our rural road be so neglect that the need to fill pothole have be supersede by the need to resurface the entire road as the damage be beyond patch . driver can tell when drive over the border into Wales , because the noise they hear while bounce and lurching disappear as the Barnett - fund highway allow they to glide along the Heads of the Valleys road . of course , we do not want Wales ' s 20 mph speed limit or NHS waiting list , but its road be a source of great envy . there be room for much more innovation in rural community . I rise briefly to make the point that my hon . friend describe the road in south Wales . the head of the Valleys road be indeed south Wales . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure such an important debate on such an important issue . he be talk about the road as vital capillary that keep people connect . I be sure he will be well aware of the report by the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee last year on rural mental health . one of the key finding be that connectivity be pivotal to people ' s health and wellbee in rural community , and part of that be our rural bus network . often , that be run by volunteer , such as the Fellrunner and Border Rambler service in my constituency . do my hon . friend agree that our rural bus network must be support to keep people connect and well in our rural community ? I will come to bus in a moment . I be not convince that the very fat bus that we have nowadays that hardly fit down rural lane and be usually empty be necessarily the good way to transport people around our rural community . however , my hon . friend ' s point about mental health be fundamental to the wellbeing of our constituent , so more innovation , well delivery and well transport will be at the heart of that issue . just to expand on the importance of the bus solution , I have villager in Trimdon , Fishburn and Sedgefield who want to get to employment . it be not just about mental health ; it be about employment and the whole gamut for people live in those place . the road need to be flat so that the bus can run on they , and we must find solution , whether it be little bus , thin bus , big bus or whatever . they need to be in place and use the funding that be available from the Government . I will get on to the subject of bus , but my hon . friend be right and his constituent be truly bless to have such a diligent Member of Parliament . let I come on to the Government ' s " future of Transport : rural strategy " , which I hope will contain some of the answer for my hon . friend . in this instance , it highlight the opportunity for rural resident to move to electric and self - drive vehicle . the latter might be one of the solution for people . I be always astonish whenever I see a picture of a self - drive vehicle — why do they have wing mirror ? it be extraordinary . a constituent once ask what happen if a self - drive vehicle be steal , and I say that it would probably come back by itself . the transition require reliable charging point infrastructure . to match demand , 300 , 000 charging point will be require by 2030 . currently , rural area have only one sixth of the public charging point for electric vehicle that be available . in Herefordshire , there be only 12 public charging point , despite the fact that rural area constitute 90 % of England . the limited range of electric vehicle be also problematic for rural resident who may need to travel long distance . that be not to mention the need for four - wheel drive , which be essential when the road be cover in snow and be not clear , as they be in London . the real solution for rural community for the future be hydrogen . we have plenty of water , and we need and use heavy machinery . there will never be an electric digger that be even half as good as the hydrogen - power JCB backhoe . brilliantly , JCB have develop its direct - burn hydrogen fleet , which substitute hydrogen for diesel and mean that already heavy plant do not need giant battery . with machine such as the JCB Loadall telehandler , we can continue to fight climate change from the farmyard — something we do well . but help be need so that farmer can move to hydrogen - power JCB - manufacture machinery . at the moment , hydrogen be not a recognise road fuel . we need to license it for road use , and that mean that regulation 94 of the Road Vehicles ( Construction and Use ) Regulations 1986 need to be amend so that that barrier to hydrogen be remove . I hope the Minister will tell we that he will make that happen immediately , in conjunction of course with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . we also need to recognise that farm machinery be get large as we have more people to feed . some common sense be require by the Department for Transport , which should allow the police to fight rural crime rather than escort combine harvester over 3 . 5 metre wide . and that be if the police have be give five day ' notice , which be especially difficult during harvest time when rain be beckon . we need uniform rule so that combine can cross police force border without need to go through these application again and again . the current system of dispensation order be a good first step , but we really should catch up with the time and deliver a well way to cut corn . meanwhile , heavy good vehicle pose a challenge for the wind road in rural region . although the use of drone be a possible solution in some city , that be unlikely to be true in the countryside . such problem mean that it be important that the Government provide some sort of oversight and police so that green activist do not try to disrupt or destroy national infrastructure in the way they do in Hereford . to increase productivity , we should ensure that people get to work around the country more quickly . increase speed limit on motorway would help to do that but , as Lord McLoughlin tell I many year ago , there be no evidence available about the safety implication . that mean that we need to test and trial increase speed limit along with safe car and well brake . an excellent place to test these thing would be the M50 , which be the perfect motorway on which to try to increase the speed limit . it be short and safe , and be a truly excellent motorway , where we could easily monitor the safety of a high speed limit . road maintenance be also vital from a safety perspective , particularly for cyclist and motorcyclist . that be often forget by those who advocate cycling , but it be especially important that this safety angle be not forget as people consider the potential uptake of electric bike and micromobility solution such as e - scooter in rural area , although I would not recommend that particular form of transport , because a small - wheeled scooter be ill - equipped to cope with the muddy and mucky road . rural road pose significant danger for all motorist . there be overhang tree , and there be green plant growth on the road sign . bad of all be the gravel that be wash into the road by rainstorm , which be an absolute nightmare for motorcycle , and the hazard can of course be fatal . rural road be the site of over half the cyclist death that occur between 2016 and 2021 , and between 2018 and 2022 rural road be the site of an average of 66 % of motorcyclist death . cycling be also not a solution for the 25 . 5 % of the rural population who be over 65 . the Government could also look at the advice from IAM RoadSmart , which be campaign for vat - free status for air vest . motorcycle airbag vest and jacket can prevent certain type of injury in the event of a collision . although there be a stated maximum intervention time of 200 millisecond to achieve british standard EN 1621 - 4 : 2013 , there be currently no requirement to comply with that standard . Helite , a manufacturer , confirm that air vest provide injury mitigation , say that they maintain " the cervical vertebrae and the head " and the " Rigidification of the trunk to stabilise the vital organ : thorax , lung , pancreas , abdomen , stomach , liver . " they also offer " complete protection of the spinal column " and " Kidney and hip protection . the trunk be maintain to … resist hyper - flex . " separate research by IAM RoadSmart discover that nearly two third of motorcyclist believe that the cost of safety wear have prevent they from purchase item that would enhance their safety while on a motorcycle . turn to public transport , rural resident be heavily dependent on their car because public transport be not widely available to they . limited travel option may restrict resident ' ability to find a job . business also rely on transport infrastructure for access to rural talent pool and customer . when I speak to the Minister — then the employment Minister — and branch manager at Leominster Jobcentre Plus last March , the need for improved transport link to the large employer in Herefordshire be a particularly useful point that be raise . I must commend the Government for the progress they be make with the pilot scheme for demand - responsive transport , which have see 17 local authority be grant £ 20 million to pilot scheme in rural and suburban region for on - demand bus . an interim report find that the use of the scheme in the area analyse be increase , and that in respect of those that begin before October 2022 , the average number of monthly passenger have be between 282 and 1 , 725 . it be important for public transport to be affordable as well as convenient , and the Government ' s capping of bus fare be generous , but traditional bus be themselves face decline . between 2022 and 2023 nearly 20 % of bus route be reduce , and , accord to the County Councils Network , bus service be now at a " historic low " in rural region . will the hon . member give way ? I should be delighted . I could do with a breather . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important debate . in my constituency , I have be campaign to keep vital rural bus route in service for those who can not or do not wish to drive . Somerset Council be await the outcome of its bid for the Department for Transport ' s zero emission bus regional area scheme , which , if successful , would bring crucial and environmentally friendly transport to our community . do the hon . Member agree that these fund must be release as a matter of urgency to improve the life of our constituent , so that they can have access to service , job and education ? the Government be be very generous — the hon . Lady may have forget to mention that — but the important point be that bus be not the success story that I wish they be . I be very lucky in that Bromyard have Dave Morris ' s fantastic drm transport business , but I think we need to think carefully about how we can make public transport affordable , reliable and efficient . simply throw money at the challenge have fail so far to deliver a sustainable long - term solution , although " bus on demand " be certainly a good idea . I therefore hope that the national bus strategy will help bus company to compete with train and continue to deliver well public transport . and now for train : oh , dear ! will my hon . friend give way ? I will , before I steam on to train . I just want to make a final point about the bus agenda , and the importance of those bus . when people be evaluate a bus service , if the service be poor and become bad and bad , they will abandon it . Durham have see the big drop in bus use in the country . we need not only a good road but a good service , whether it be demand - responsive or not . do my hon . friend agree that we need to take a long - term view and ensure that there be a service offer that encourage people to use bus until we get the good service out of our bus route ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend : he be quite right . People do " wise up " to inefficient public service — and there be no well example than the train service . I be most grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I apologise for arrive have miss his opening remark . do he agree that community bus service , which be demand - responsive and help to supply service to remote rural community that be not serve by regular bus , may well be the solution that he seek , as they provide access for people who can not travel on their own account ? I entirely agree with my right hon . friend — a friend , neighbour , and brilliant Chairman of the Environmental Audit Committee . not only be he right , but that be particularly true in Herefordshire and Shropshire , where the most vulnerable people , the child and the elderly , need public service more than anyone . they be the one who be miss out . so bus by demand be definitely where the future lie because , turn to the railway , the train service have a lemme - like determination to kill itself off . the number of train in service be reduce and that be particularly problematic for rural resident who rely on train line to access their workplace . many of my constituent have highlight issue concern the train line between London and Ledbury . it be difficult to leave Ledbury at a time when normal people would hope to travel to work . return to Ledbury be also a random experience as the last train leave at about teatime from London , and then it be finger - cross that the driver do not give up in Worcester . so while the Government be aim to increase rail freight by 75 % , for resident to utilise such a boost to service frequency the road network need to be in place to facilitate access to the station . that be important because the midland offer a unique opportunity to enhance connectivity through the heart of the country . midland Connect have call for the midland rail hub to improve connectivity in the region . this hub would mean that the large urban centre in the midland would no long be more than an hour ' s reach through public transport to an extra 1 . 6 million people . on that point , in Northumberland we have the Northumberland line which be go to connect Ashington through Blyth and Seaton Valley into Newcastle , and that will go two way : it will take people into Newcastle and it will also bring people into the area so that they can use the beach and the park . it be a fantastic way to use those train service and that have be deliver by this Conservative Government . I be delighted , and all I can say be that the people of Blyth Valley be lucky to have such a marvellous mp , such a marvellous rail service and such a positive step forward , and , as potentially I suppose that be fund by the hs2 decision , a marvellous Prime Minister as well . so all good , but let we hope that they be not get the same train service that my poor constituent get between Paddington and Hereford , which be woeful . I have campaign for many year on the issue of accessibility to the train station in my constituency and be pleased when improvement for people with disability be make to the station in Leominster , but accessibility continue to be problematic at Ledbury . the station have a b3 accessibility rating and an eastbound platform that be not accessible to those with limited mobility . the station be also difficult to navigate for those carry luggage and those with pram . all of these issue contribute to an unpleasant travel experience , which discourage rural resident from make use of public transport . as I say , the railway seem determined to put off the traveller who most need train to get about . I hope that common sense have finally trickle through when my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) tell I at Prime Minister ' s question that Ledbury be in line for disabled access , but , alas , that dream be shatter shortly afterwards by a junior Minister in the Department for Transport . in October I bring this problem to the attention of the Secretary of State for Transport , who inform I that Ledbury station have be nominate for the Access for all scheme . while that be welcome news , we have be there before . I be concerned that I have to raise this issue at all give that disabled user of public transport should be protect by the Equality Act 2010 . unfortunately , it appear there be many station like Ledbury in the UK ; I be appal to learn that step - free access be in fact not available in three quarter of the UK ' s train station . a 2019 study find that the only disability measure in approximately 190 station be a hearing induction loop . accessibility be also relevant to the building of new rural home . in November the Government announce that £ 2 . 5 million will be make available to support affordable housing development in rural area , yet without efficient transport connection the successful uptake of these new property be also likely to be limit . I therefore ask the Government to do all they can to insist that local authority ensure that public transport be accessible for all rural resident . in conclusion , I want to praise the Government for do something I would not normally approve of . the Air Balloon pub have be completely destroy . there be nothing leave of it . normally that would be a tragedy , but not when the a417 be be improve . it be so long overdue and so welcome that the loss of the pub be a small sacrifice to pay , and I must thank and encourage the Government for that vital progress . the advantage of well rural transport be not limit to rural community . by unlock the productivity and connectivity of rural resident , we can enhance our effort towards prolonged sustainable growth as a country . for far too long there have be an unfair divide between our rural and urban community . it be time we close that gap , and the way to do that be by deliver rural transport , just as we would expect to see in urban area . that be a tour de force , by any interpretation , from my gallant and hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) . it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government on the vital issue of rural transport and to his thought - provoke speech this evening . I know his constituency well ; I ride my first winner as a jockey there at Garnons point - to - point , back in the 1840 , and he understand that , as a Member for a rural constituency myself , I share his concern and his desire to have well transport in rural area . it be a measure of the importance of this debate not only that my hon . friend take a very considerable time to make his case , but that many parliamentary colleague come in for an Adjournment debate in circumstance where there be much to answer . rural transport be an issue that have be transform by the Prime Minister ' s decision to cancel the second leg of HS2 and attribute significantly large amount of funding , which I will go through , to transport infrastructure across the country , and in particular to support rural community . there be no doubt whatsoever that the point make by several hon . friend be utterly right . as part of Network North , we have announce £ 8 . 3 billion of funding to fix pothole and maintain our road . we have already commence pay that money , and I will go through the Herefordshire funding , because it matter to see the transformation in funding that have take place . we should bear in mind that in 2008 - 09 and 2009 - 10 less than £ 10 million in funding be allocate to Herefordshire Council . that , in reality , have now double to £ 18 . 76 million this year , up 31 % , by reason of the announcement that I will go through . there be the baseline funding of £ 14 million , on top of which there be an increase of £ 2 . 56 million as part of the 2023 budget . on top of that there be a furth £ 106 million in additional funding as part of the Network North 11 - year period of funding up to 2033 - 34 . finally , Herefordshire have already receive the first instalment of £ 1 . 8 million , in December 2023 . I think I be achieve a parliamentary hat - trick by respond to the Adjournment debate on the second - to - last day of the winter term , on the last day of the winter term and on the first day of this term . I commence with a robust no . 10 in my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) on 18 December , an interesting but genuine no . 11 on 19 December , and then an open bat in the Graveney mould on the first day of this term . the particular relevance of this be that the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) state in this and previous debate that Devon be not get any funding . he will be aware that it receive in excess of £ 6 . 6 million over the next two year to combat pothole in his constituency , over and above the baseline funding and the 2023 budget . for context , in this year alone that equate to a 16 . 6 % uplift in his county council ' s pothole budget . will the Minister give way ? I will move on . the — order . one of we be go to sit down , and it will certainly not be I . Minister , it be a bit naughty to mention the member while he be here but then not allow he to come back . you take he personally to task , which be not a problem , but then when he stand up you want to move on , which I think be a bit unfair . Minister , it be up to you . Mr Speaker , with respect , I be go to allow the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton to intervene . I have a lot of member to deal with and I be go to address pothole funding first , but I will of course allow he to respond . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I appreciate his point about the money be release to place such as Devon , but I speak to constituent who think that one reason why speed restriction be be impose on rural road be because of pothole . that be clearly not the Government ' s intention , so be this a form of speed restriction ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the copious answer I make on those point on 19 December . the reality of the situation be that , in addition to the Herefordshire funding , there be a furth £ 4 . 7 billion for local authority in the north and midland through the new local integrate transport settlement , which will allow authority to deliver a range of new transport scheme to help reduce congestion and upgrade junction , as well as to invest in active travel and zero - emission bus . my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire specifically raise the Hereford bypass , which do not proceed under a previous local authority . I be happy to meet he and the present local authority , because clearly there be opportunity through the local integrate transport settlement , and other form of funding , for local authority to bring forward proposal in relation to potential bypass . it be for the county council to make that case , and I look forward to hear from it . as the House have debate in detail tonight , bus have a key role to play in improve connectivity and support rural area to develop and grow the economy . that be why the Government have invest so heavily in bus over the past few year . follow the introduction of the national bus strategy , the Government be provide over £ 1 billion of support to help local authority to deliver their bus service improvement plan , and this support will remain in place until at least April 2025 . it be up to local authority to determine how this bus funding should be spend , include by assess the need of local community . in addition , Herefordshire , like many rural area of the north and midland , will benefit from hundred of million of pound that the Government have allocate from the hs2 money , through Network North , to help level up bus service . that include £ 1 . 9 million of bus service improvement plan funding , and it will receive further money through Network North funding . as part of our regular funding , we also support bus through the bus service operator grant , which be worth over £ 259 million a year to bus and community transport operator . my hon . Friend speak about particular bus service , and the demand - responsive service mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) be a good example . I totally agree , and I strongly believe that it be up to local authority to drive forward successful operator . I be aware of the Border Rambler and Fellrunner bus service mention by my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) . and my hon . friend the Member for Sedgefield ( Paul Howell ) rightly make the case that it be up to his local authority to ensure that bus service , particularly in the southern part of his constituency , be make available to his constituent . I deprecate those individual provider that have not take up the £ 2 bus fare , which be a key change we have make . with great respect , the introduction of the £ 2 bus fare have be transformational in my Northumberland community and across the country . I be delighted that , follow the launch of Network North , the £ 2 bus fare will continue to run for a considerable time . we know that rural bus fare can be expensive , for obvious reason . before the introduction of the £ 2 cap , many user of rural bus service find themselves have to pay more than £ 5 a trip . I be particularly pleased that we have extend the cap , which clearly support local community and local economy by make travel to employment , health and leisure service in our beautiful rural region more affordable and more accessible . on a local level , it have be utterly transformational in place such as Haltwhistle in Northumberland . I share the disappointment that some bus operator , include some in Herefordshire , have not sign up to the £ 2 bus fare , and I would urge they to do so . over £ 600 million have be make available for the scheme to reduce the cost of bus travel . although participation be voluntary , the Department for Transport have encourage as many operator as possible across the whole region to continue to participate . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) make a similar point in respect of his rural community , which I know very well , have be to Newtownards and around his part and have live in Northern Ireland , just outside Moy , for the good part of a year . I accept his point , which he make as eloquently as ever — it would not be a proper Adjournment debate without his outstanding contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) rightly make the point that the Welsh Government have get themselves into a bizarre situation . the petition against the 20 mph limit , which be clearly an attack on driver , be probably the most successful petition in the history of this country on any particular issue . I fear that the Welsh Government will rue the day that they go down that particular route on something so extremely unpopular . on speed limit , my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire raise the issue of the M50 and whether there be the potential to introduce a change of speed limit . I accept that he make the point for an increase . the point I would make to he be that it be a matter for he , and more particularly his local authority , to sit down and discuss that with National Highways , which govern the strategic network , and then set speed limit on individual road . they have the local knowledge and be well place to do so , but it be for the local authority to drive that forward with National Highways in the first instance . I be sorry to interrupt the Minister ' s excellent speech , but the motorway do not seem to be a local authority issue because it will travel through a great number of local authority area . be there anything the Government can do to assist that discussion , because he know very well that most public servant , of all sort , be risk averse ? I do not think it be for I to comment on the nature of public servant and their willingness to embrace risk or otherwise , whether on a motorway or off a motorway , at speed or not at speed . what I would say be this : all major road be part of the strategic road network run by National Highways . however , local authority — there be not many that cover the M50 ; I think it be just Herefordshire and Worcestershire — and Gloucestershire . and Gloucestershire . local authority can come together and sit down with National Highways and potentially drive forward change if that be what they wish to do , but it start , fundamentally , with the local authority . my hon . Friend rightly raise , and have be an ardent campaigner for , rail station accessibility . I know , because I have discuss it with he , that he have make a considerable effort over many year to make Ledbury station much more accessible . that point have be hear very loudly and very clearly . he meet my boss , the Secretary of State for Transport , and make that point to he in October . he will be aware — I be not the Minister in charge of disabled access to train , but I will go away and try to get detail on this point — that the Access for all budget be presently be consider . the bid be in and consideration be be make . Ledbury be one . he be right to make the point that , slowly but surely across the country , we be upgrade and improve railway station . we be go as fast as we possibly can . we would like to go fast and we would like to include Ledbury . I promise he that it be on the list to be address and I totally accept his point . have work with I on an area share by both of we , the Minister will know Gilsland station . I urge he to really make the case from within , as part of his ministerial portfolio , for the reopening of Gilsland station . I wonder when the issue of restore a railway would feature in tonight ' s debate , and I be not disappointed . as my hon . friend the Member for Blyth Valley ( Ian Levy ) make clear , we have the amazing example of the good line in the country : the Northumberland line . it be see multiple station be restore as we take a massive step forward in restore transport connectivity in Northumberland . I have campaign on Gilsland for only 14 year ; in Herefordshire , there be Pontrilas and there be other station — whether they be kill by Dr Beeching or other down the year — that be seek as an opportunity for a reopening of our railway infrastructure . as we have see with the Waverley line in Scotland , there be a definite desire for such railway to be reinvigorate and for new station to return . without a shadow of a doubt , I will personally take the issue up with the train Minister . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Recall of MPs Act 2015 : member for Wellingborough Text of notification receive by the Speaker : Recall Condition the petition start because Peter Bone MP have be suspend from sit in the House of Commons for a period of 6 week for breach the code of conduct for mps . petition signing period from 9 am on Wednesday 8 November 2023 until 5 pm on Tuesday 19 December 2023 . the Outcome of the Petition be as follow : in accordance with section 14 ( 3 ) of the Act ( determination of whether recall petition be successful ) the petition be successful number of register elector eligible to sign the petition 79 , 402 number of register eligible elector who validly sign the petition 10 , 505 Percentage of register eligible elector who validly sign the petition 13 . 2 % number of reject signing sheet due to : want of official mark 0 unmarked or void for uncertainty 82 total number of reject signing sheet 82 sign : Adele Wylie Petition Officer Dated : Tuesday 19 December 2023