Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Industrial Action : impact on Children and parent what step she be take to help reduce the impact of industrial action by teacher on child and parent . last year ' s strike be one of the big outbreak of industrial action in a generation . over 25 million school day be lose , with far - reach consequence across our society . we can not afford a repeat of that disruption , and it be my duty to protect child ' s education . that be why we be consult on minimum service level to end further disruption to education , while provide certainty to parent . msl will balance the right to strike with child ' s fundamental right to a good education . the issue extend to university student as well . my constituent ' s final degree paper be not mark this year because of industrial action . that put in jeopardy her postgraduate course and her employment offer . her degree be issue only after her mother personally visit the dean of the university involve and demand action . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that degree exam paper be mark on time in the current academic year ? our young people should never be pawn in the dispute of adult . the behaviour of University and College Union member be disgraceful , and their action cause untold disruption and stress for thousand of student . although the high education sector be independent of Government , the damaging impact of strike action can not go unchecked . that be why we be consult on minimum service level in this sector , unlike the Labour party , which always bow to its union paymaster . it be a pleasure to be call to ask a supplementary to the first question . I be ever mindful of the importance that the industrial action finish . have the Secretary of State have any opportunity to discuss this with the Department of Education in Northern Ireland ? I understand that she have no responsibility for Northern Ireland , but it be important that we work together to try to solve the problem of industrial action . it be affect load of school , particularly those whose pupil have special educational need . I be really concerned . the hon . member put his finger on it . industrial action have a massive impact , particularly on vulnerable child , those with special educational need , and those in exam cohort . I be always happy to share with my counterpart in the devolved administration , and I be very happy to share what we be do on minimum service level . School Funding : County Durham what step her Department be take to ensure the adequacy of school funding in County Durham . nationally , school funding will rise to over £ 59 . 6 billion next year , the high ever in real term per pupil . this year , the north - east have the large percentage increase in per pupil funding in the whole of England . I welcome the Minister to his place . every day be a school day , but I wonder whether the new Schools Minister be familiar with the School cut website , which indicate that 214 out of 240 school in County Durham face spend cut in 2024 - 25 . the cumulative impact of cut in County Durham amount to £ 113 million , equate to a £ 175 cut per pupil . do he believe that restrict school budget will help or hinder the educational opportunity and life chance for child in my east Durham constituency ? I have see the website that the hon . member mention . its calculation be base on some very speculative assumption , and the conclusion that it reach should therefore be treat with great caution . next year , County Durham will receive over £ 391 million base on current pupil number , which be an extra £ 7 . 8 million for school . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , welcome the Minister to his place . on Friday , I join labour ' s candidate Alan Strickland on a visit to Ferryhill School in County Durham . the staff team and student be amazing , but staff be leave teach in portacabin , the dining room and the sport hall , the staff room be behind a curtain on a stage , and year 10 and 11 be in a different town . last week , yet more school be add to the list of those with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , and the Secretary of State could not confirm how many will need complete rebuild . give the urgency , can the Minister tell parent , child and staff when this chaos will end ? Mr Speaker , allow I to take this moment to pay tribute to all school staff , leader , child and their family , who have show great fortitude in deal with the disruption cause by RAAC . we have move quickly to make sure all school with suspect RAAC be survey and to work with school to put in place alternative arrangement . of course none of that be perfect , but school have show great flexibility in work towards that , such that we now have 99 % of affected school back with full - time face - to - face education . Childcare support : Working Parents what step she be take to increase childcare support for work parent . what step she be take to increase childcare support for work parent . the Government announce early this year transformative reform to childcare to benefit child , parent and the economy . by 2027 - 28 , we expect to spend in excess of £ 8 billion every year on free childcare hour and early education , represent the single large investment in childcare in England ever . in recent month , I have visit several early year provider across Bracknell Forest , where it be clear that the improved provision and ratio will make a big difference both for work family and for the provider . could the Minister please outline what more could be do to well incentivise work parent to return to work ? last week the Department for Business and Trade publish its response to its consultation on flexible working , make clear that this Government be commit to change to legislation that will enable more flexible working . together with our expansion of childcare , that will ensure parent have more choice over how , when and where they work . welcome back , Mr Speaker . the Early Education and Childcare Coalition have find that 57 % of nursery staff and 38 % of childminder be consider leave the early year sector in the next 12 month , and Stroud business say the same thing . that absolutely can not happen . they be a skilled and amazing workforce , whom parent trust with the most precious thing , and the Government have back the industry as integral to the growth strategy . what evidence do my hon . friend have that the UK be retain nursery staff and childminder , and what can we be do to ensure the new system be successful ? I thank my hon . friend for her work champion the early year workforce and join she in the tribute she pay to they . the total number of pay early year staff have remain stable in recent year , and between 2021 and 2022 the number of staff increase by 2 % , or 5 , 900 people . we will publish update statistic in the come week . be it not a fact that after 13 year of the Conservatives in government , our country be in a situation where preschool and out - of - school care be the most expensive in Europe and beyond ? we have so many talented people — especially woman , but man as well — who be not come back to use their high skill to recharge the economy , because they can not afford childcare . what be the Minister go to do about it ? what we be do be make the single large investment ever make in childcare . that be go to save the average family up to £ 6 , 500 per year on the cost of childcare , in contrast to the hon . Gentleman ' s party , which have no policy for this area whatsoever . t - level what recent assessment she have make of trend in the number of student complete t - Level course . what recent assessment she have make of trend in the number of student complete t - level course . I be very proud that more than 4 , 000 student now have t - level on their cv . in the summer , 3 , 119 student complete their t - level with a pass or above , mean that we have a pass rate of 90 . 5 % before factor in remarking and retake . we will publish a t - level action plan with more information early next year . in my constituency , Christ the King Emmanuel sixth form college do fantastically well in educate young people , but an Education Committee report state that in the first year of the T - Level transition programme , just 14 % of student go on to start the t - level . the Government have yet to publish the datum for subsequent year . can the Minister outline when the new datum will be publish and whether that progression rate have improve ? I be very glad that Christ the King Emmanuel sixth form college be offer T - level , and that the hon . Lady have have 8 , 300 apprenticeship start in her constituency since 2010 . our t - level transition year be a new thing that we have introduce — it be now call the foundation year — and very close to 50 % of student go on to do a level 3 . however , I say in my opening answer to she , we will have more information about these matter in the next year . welcome back , Mr Speaker . accord to make UK , 36 % of manufacturing vacancy be hard to fill because of a lack of skill . there be 170 , 000 few apprenticeship start than in 2017 . the Prime Minister cast doubt on the future of t - level in his conference speech , when he say that he think they should be scrap . just what be the Government ' s plan , or will they leave it to my hon . friend the Member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) to address the chronic shortage of technical skill over which they have preside ? I would have think that the hon . Gentleman would celebrate the 9 , 000 - plus apprenticeship start in his constituency since 2010 . we have build our skill revolution in everything from apprenticeship and our t - level programme to our high technical qualification , free boot camp and free level 3 course , and that be drive the increase skill uptake . it be worth note that we have have 337 , 000 apprenticeship start over the past year . he should welcome that . I call the shadow Minister . shockingly , result last summer reveal that one in three student drop out of their t - level course , which be high than for early cohort . something be go very wrong . in April , the Education Committee raise major concern about t - level roll - out , regional variation and fall employer engagement . access to opportunity really matter , so should the Minister not now pause and review the defunding of alternative qualification , as Labour would , and urgently bring forward the 2023 - 24 t - level action plan in order to address concern raise by the Select Committee and Ofsted and bring much - need clarity and support for college , employer , parent and student ? not content with be in the anti - apprenticeship party , give her plan to weaken the apprenticeship levy and halve the number of apprenticeship , the hon . Lady be also take on the mantle of t - level denier . we have 18 t - level ; we have , as I mention , a 90 . 5 % pass rate ; we have 10 , 000 student do our t - level programme ; and we expect the datum that we will release early next year to show that many thousand more student be do the t - level programme . [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 7mc . ] I be very proud of our t - level programme . I know that the hon . Lady will be eat mince pie at Christmas , but I suggest that early next year she may be eat humble pie , because our t - level programme be something to be proud of . after - school Childcare : long - term Educational Outcomes if her Department will make an assessment of the potential impact of after - school childcare on long - term educational outcome . in October , the Government announce the allocation of £ 289 million of start - up funding to local authority for wraparound care , which we know support parent to work , as well as have the potential to improve attainment , engagement and attendance . [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 7mc . ] I recently visit Muschamp Primary School in Carshalton and Wallington , where I observe the Junior Adventures Group UK — a lead provider of school - age childcare in my constituency — in the crucial support that it give child , particularly those with special educational need , beyond school hour . however , it be evident that school - age childcare need reform . I welcome that £ 289 million , but can my hon . friend explain how the framework will ensure that that investment effectively support family , specifically those with requirement for special educational need and disability ? my hon . friend make an important point . we have set out clear expectation that all wraparound provision should be inclusive and accessible . we have give local authority flexibility in how to spend their funding , but we expect they to distribute it in a way that ensure equal access to provision for parent of child with special educational need . pupil with SEN and Disabilities what step her Department be take to support pupil with special educational need and disability . we want all child to receive the right support to reach their full potential . that be why , since March , we have open 14 new special free school , with 78 more approved ; we have launch our £ 70 million change programme , benefit every region in England and test key SEND and alternative provision , include innovative approach to speech and language therapy ; and , to help young people with special educational need into work , we be double the number of support internship to 4 , 500 by 2025 . by next year , we will have increase high - need funding by 60 % , to over £ 10 . 5 billion , in just five year . last year in Buckinghamshire , one in three education , health and care plan be issue outside the legally require 20 - week timeframe . will the Secretary of State outline what concrete step the Department be take to improve access to educational psychologist and reduce waiting time for ehcp ? I know how hard parent fight to get the right support for their child . sometimes that take too long , and I be determined to make that easy , which be why we be simplify and standardise the EHCP process . however , to deliver that support , we need our fantastic teacher , teach assistant and specialist SEND teacher ; without they , we could not provide child with the support they require . that be why we be boost training opportunity through a new national professional qualification for special educational need co - ordinator , which will be launch in autumn 2024 , and invest a furth £ 21 million to train 400 more educational psychologist . we be also train up to 7 , 000 early year specialist , over 5 , 000 of whom have begin their training . we now have 280 , 000 teach assistant in our school , an increase of over 60 , 000 since we have be in office . one in 10 child in education in my constituency receive special educational need support . thank to the Department for Education , we have have a new special school , the Austen Academy — that be a free school — and significant increase in budget , but can we also ensure that teach child with special need be a mainstream part of teacher education ? support child with special educational need every day be now a mainstream part of school . I thank my right hon . friend for her question . that be exactly why we be develop a new NPQ for senco , which will launch in autumn 2024 , and be inputte into the standard for teacher training to ensure that everybody have an understanding of how good to support child . there be now a lot of child with special educational need , and we all need to know how to support they well . from my citywide consultation of parent of child with SEND , it come to light that the particularly harsh and punitive disciplinary process be exercise in school be have a very harmful effect on many of those child . will the Secretary of State or the Schools Minister meet I to discuss a particular multi - academy trust in my constituency where those process be have a very negative impact on young people ? I be very happy to confirm that the Minister for child and family will be happy to meet the hon . Lady . will the Secretary of State join I in thank Julie Nixon , head of the Spectrum of Light charity in Rossendale and Darwen , for the work she do on Saturday by bring together parent from across Lancashire and Rossendale and Darwen on a Zoom call ? those parent be exactly the same as I , in that they all have an autistic child , and I be appal to hear from they about the time they be have to wait to see an educational psychologist . will the Secretary of State agree to write to Lancashire County Council to find out what the heck be go on with those parent whose child be miss school and be unable to access an education , health and care plan ? I be very happy to work with my right hon . friend to improve thing in Lancashire . spectrum of Light sound like it be do an amazing job — there be many people who be look to well support our child with special educational need . of course , we recognise that we need to improve aspect , which be why we publish an improvement plan in March this year . I call the shadow Minister . would - be educational psychology trainee for September 2024 have be leave in limbo because of delay in the Department confirm the available funding . the number of educational psychologist have fall since 2010 , despite request for education , health and care plan increase every year . that national shortage of qualified practitioner be contribute to the crisis in SEND that be affect so many family across the country . do the Secretary of State agree that this uncertainty about Government funding for educational psychology training be unacceptable , and when do she expect it to be resolve ? we announce in November 2022 that a furth £ 21 million be go to be spend to train more than 400 educational psychologist . pupil with SEN and Disabilities what step she be take to reduce waiting time for child with special educational need and disability to receive support . in our improvement plan , we set out plan to deliver consistent early support through our new national standard , back by a 60 % increase in high - need funding and in programme such as our £ 13 million investment in the Partnerships for Inclusion of Neurodiversity in Schools programme , which support the need of neurodiverse child . More than half of child with an education , health and care plan be now experience a delay , and even after receive an EHCP , my constituent ' s child be hold back a year and have to wait another year before find a space in a special school . over 1 . 5 million child in the UK have special educational need , so can the Minister tell I what he be do to ensure that parent and child such as my constituent get the support they need quickly ? we be invest £ 2 . 6 billion to transform the special educational need and alternative provision system . that have include a 36 % increase in funding to Birmingham , where the timeliness of ehcp have be get well each year between 2020 and 2022 . [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 8MC . ] beyond the traditional method of support for SEND , the Minister will know that council give specialist provision , and we have hear a lot today about some of those long - term provision , for child in particular , and the time involve . what assessment do the Department make when look at the distance that some of these child need to travel to get this specialist support , particularly when it be out of county — for example , shropshire into Staffordshire ? it may not seem a long distance , but on some of those meandering , serpentine road it can take a very long time to travel 20 mile . my right hon . friend make an important point . out of county placement be not ideal for the child and their family or for the cost to the local authority , which be why we have 78 new special school in fruition . we be also committed to see the child whose need can be meet in a mainstream school be support at an early enough stage with their special educational need . I call Mark Francois . thank you , Sir . it be good to see you back safe and well in the Chair . as this be the near I be ever go to get to it — no . 10 , please ! [ laughter . ] special need education : access what step her Department be take to improve access to special need education . I wonder what be happen there , Mr Speaker . as part of our £ 2 . 6 billion investment to reform the SEND and AP system , we have announce 41 new special free school , with a further 37 in the pipeline . we have also set out plan for new national standard to make clear the support that should be available in mainstream setting for child with special educational need . when do the vacancy come at no . 10 ? can I take this opportunity quickly to thank the Secretary of State , her junior Ministers and official for all the help for the school affect by RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — in my constituency ? turn to SEN , demand in Essex far outstrip supply . the Secretary of State will know that just prior to the summer recess , I launch a campaign for a new SEN school in south Essex . I be delighted to tell she that we have a trust that be seriously interested , we may have a site and we may even have some money . on that basis , could I meet she or one of her junior Ministers — early in the new year , please — to update she on where we have get to and to ask for help to make this dream a reality ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on his campaign , with which we be very familiar in the Department ; we would be delighted to meet he . where local authority do feel there be a need , they can open a new special school through the free school presumption route , which I would be happy to discuss with he far . the Minister mention the £ 2 . 6 billion that the Government have invest , but this be not filter down . that be the key issue for parent access SEN provision , and so many parent be raise it at my surgery . one concerned mother tell I : " parent and child be be put under intolerable stress and anxiety with a system which be inefficient and create a significant mental health burden " . the Minister mention the national standard . will the standard include the fact that SEN child and child with autism be be arrest and their mental health be not be treat properly because school simply do not have enough training and support ? will the Minister please address that ? I thank the hon . Lady . we be keen that school be as inclusive as they say they will be when it come to child with special educational need . we have nine change programme partnership to try to make sure that the system work a lot well . the money be give to local authority , and we should already be see an improvement , but I would be happy to discuss it far with she . local Skills need : Education Providers and business what step her Department be take to help ensure that tertiary and technical education provider work with business to meet local skill need . what step her Department be take to help ensure that tertiary and technical education provider work with business to meet local skill need . we be transform skill through our local skill improvement plan , back by £ 165 million and support by business , further education and high education , and though a £ 300 million investment in institutes of technology , which be collaboration between business , high education and further education to revolutionise our tertiary education offering . I thank my right hon . friend for that response . stoke - on - Trent College have recently launch its new " Skills Ready , Future ready " strategy and have be work with a number of employer locally to fill skill shortage , and it be very welcome to see the local skill improvement fund investment of around £ 3 million for Stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire , but give our industry locally and the skill shortage , we need to go far , so what will my right hon . friend be do to help fill some of those skill shortage — to support our industry to help people earn well wage and get skilled now ? my hon . friend be a true champion of skill in Stoke - on - Trent and , as he mention , we strongly support the £ 3 . 2 million we be invest through the local skill improvement fund . that be underpin by £ 3 . 8 billion of additional national investment and my hon . friend will be pleased to know we will be open the Stoke - on - Trent Staffordshire institute of technology in September 2024 , with £ 13 million of capital funding as part of our revolution in tertiary education . my constituency be at the beat heart of motorsport valley and it be critical for motorsport ' s future success that we get skill training and education right for young people who want to go into that sector . the Grand Prix Trust be support that effort , have launch a £ 100 , 000 annual bursary scheme to help disadvantaged college student become part of the dynamic british motorsport sector , a partnership with the National College for Motorsport and Silverstone University Technical College . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome this fantastic initiative , and tell I what more he can do to help promote this important work ? my hon . friend highlight the skill revolution we be have in this country , and the initiative he have mention increase the collaboration between business and skill provider to help disadvantaged student in his constituency to climb the ladder of opportunity in a high - profile industry . I extend my thank to Pat Symonds , chief technical officer of Formula 1 , and Martin Brundle , chairman of the GPT trustee . my hon . friend will be pleased to know that the South Central Institute of Technology base in Milton Keynes be also explore opportunity to work with motorsport in the area . Plymouth be home to world - class skill in marine and nuclear engineering . demand for apprentice in our city be grow , especially with the construction of new berth and dock for nuclear submarine at Devonport dockyard . do the Minister agree that skill training and apprenticeship be just as important as new crane and new dock in make these project a success and support our armed force , and will he meet I , a delegation of Plymouth business , our city council and City College Plymouth to look at how we can turbocharge create more apprenticeship in our city to deliver these exciting and innovative project ? the hon . Gentleman will be pleased that his constituency have receive over 14 , 910 apprenticeship start since 2010 , which be really good news , but he be absolutely right that our skill offer be the key for future employment and job and to ensure people climb the ladder of opportunity . we have the apprenticeship , the bootcamp , the high technical qualification and the free level 3 course , but I will look at what he say and would be happy to meet he and other Plymouth mp to work through the important issue he mention . tertiary education provider be themselves business that seek to meet local skill need , and the University of Exeter be no different . it host international student who contribute £ 486 million to Devon ' s economy . People in Devon do not think of these student as immigrant , give how this funding help boost skill among local people , so will the Minister talk to his counterpart in the Home Office about take student out of the net migration figure ? as a former Exeter University student myself , I know how brilliant it be , and it also have a huge and incredibly successful programme of degree apprenticeship . I be very supportive of international student ; they bring a lot of income to our country . visa matter be always matter for the Home Office but I be sure there will be discussion about the issue raise by the hon . Gentleman . School Support Staff Vacancies : Trends what recent assessment she have make of trend in the number of support staff vacancy in school . support staff play a vital role in our school . we have give school the freedom to recruit the staff they require to meet their own need ; although we do not collect central datum on vacancy as a result , I can tell the hon . Lady that the number of support staff work in school have increase for the past three year . we have already hear in this Question Time about delay in get the education , health and care plan in Lancashire . as a consequence , rural school like Quernmore , which I have the privilege of visit on Friday , be leave with more child with special educational need in mainstream but without the financial support package that should come with that . these small rural school be therefore have to support child with additional need and do not always have the right number of staff to be able to do so in the way they would like . be support available to rural and small school , especially in Lancashire , to meet the need of all child ? we must meet the need of all child ; and at some level , every teacher be a teacher of special educational need and disability . I recognise that there can be particular difficulty for small school in rural area , as the hon . member mention . we have the wide EHCP system , which be well than the previous system . on place available in special school , where child be in mainstream school , I recognise the central role play by teach assistant . that be why we have set out in the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan how we will look to consolidate that position and give further advice on the good deployment of ta . teacher Workload what step she be take to help reduce the workload of teacher . reduce unnecessary workload be a priority for the Department and for I . we have convene a workload reduction taskforce of expert , teach union and practitioner to make recommendation on how to minimise workload for teacher and school leader . it be good to see you back , Mr Speaker , and look so well . the last - minute nature of ofsted inspection be cause huge anxiety to my small rural school in Meon Valley . that mean that teacher and in particular headteacher be put off activity , such as residential school trip , educational trip and professional development course , in case they get that call from Ofsted . will my right hon . friend consider change the notice period for inspection so that teacher can plan their workload well ? I value all those activity that my hon . friend set out that school undertake for their child . like she , I represent a rural constituency — indeed , we have next - door constituency . I recognise what she say about small rural school . inspection have an important role to play , but Ofsted also have the flexibility in the framework to take account of the particular position of small school . teacher workload be be exacerbate by teacher vacancy that school be struggle to fill , and funding pressure be result in cut to support staff , who often support the most vulnerable and needy child . that be lead to an exodus of teacher from our school . just last week , we see the staggering figure from the Government that teacher train recruitment target have be miss by a whopping 50 % in our secondary school , with the sharp fall in math , which be allegedly a priority for the Prime Minister . how bad do it have to get before the Government will produce and implement a proper workforce strategy ? I can confirm that there be 27 , 000 more teacher and 60 , 000 more teaching assistant in our school compare with 2010 . we have the most talented generation of teacher ever , and we continue to focus on a strong recruitment and retention strategy , so that we continue to get the good talent to teach our child . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the workload and stress level of teacher rise exponentially during an inspection . I be sure that the Minister will join I in offer condolence to the friend and family of Ruth Perry . in the light of the coroner ' s verdict that the " rude and intimidate " nature of the ofsted inspection contribute to Ruth Perry ' s tragic suicide , how be the Minister ensure the welfare of school leader be prioritise during inspection ? I of course extend my condolence to the friend and family of Ruth Perry . it be the most awful tragedy . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will say a word on that tragedy and Ofsted in a moment . for now , let I just say that of course the inspection framework and process must both be fully informative to parent , and supportive to teacher and school . Free School Meals : impact on Children and parent what recent assessment her Department have make of the impact of free school meal on child and their parent . free school meal support disadvantaged family to the value of £ 480 a year , ensure that eligible pupil receive a healthy , nutritious meal . the Government have expand free school meal more than any other in recent decade ; now , more than a third of pupil in England receive they , compare with a sixth in 2010 . recently , we have have high food inflation . while I welcome the fact that the Government have now halve inflation , one of my small school have tell I that it be unable to provide free meal within the money allocate , as it can not benefit from the same economy of scale as large school . will my right hon . friend review the fund available for small school ? I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s point . the national funding formula recognise that some school be necessarily small and do not have the same opportunity to realise economy of scale . every school receive a lump sum , irrespective of its size — £ 134 , 000 for next year — and the Government have reform the sparsity factor , increase funding for that from £ 42 million in 2021 - 22 to £ 98 million in 2024 - 25 . high Education Institutions : International Students what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of trend in the level of university application from international student on the long - term sustainability of high education institution . I be pleased that we have surpass our target , with well over 600 , 000 international student . they remain an important source of income and a source of pride for our university , and the total impact of international student be worth £ 37 billion across the duration of their study . as the Minister have just mention , the economic benefit of overseas student be some £ 37 . 4 billion spread between university and economy across the UK , but application in this ucas admission round be down . with increasingly stiff competition from elsewhere , UK institution can not simply rely on their excellent reputation , so what more can the Minister do to ensure that the UK remain an attractive place for international student to study ? as I say to the hon . Lady , we have something like 689 , 000 international student and our target be 600 , 000 a year . [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 8MC . ] we be work very closely with Sir Steve Smith . we want to diversify to a whole range of different country to advertise ourselves to international student but , as I say , the trend be good . the hundred of thousand of international student who be here benefit our economy and provide an important source of income for university . I call the shadow Minister , Matt Western . it be great to see you , Mr Speaker . as well as contribute to Britain ' s world - lead research , the financial contribution of international student be vital to UK university , particularly at a time of rise cost pressure and real - term fee value erosion . any sudden change in the number of international student come to the UK obviously put the high education sector at risk . the Minister speak of his pride , but I would like to stress the point and ensure that he put this on record . can he absolutely give his assurance to the House that the Government remain robust in their ambition to continue to attract 600 , 000 international student a year , as lay out in the international education strategy ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question . I be absolutely committed to the target of 600 , 000 . as I say in response to the previous question , we have surpass that , with well over 680 , 000 student . [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 , Vol . 742 , c . 8MC . ] as I say , they be of benefit to our university and our economy , and they be a very important source of income for all our high education institution . violence in Classrooms what recent assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of trend in the level of violence in classroom . of course , no one should face violence in school . in England , we have take decisive action to improve pupil ' behaviour through strengthen the behaviour in school guidance and invest in give support and propagate good practice through the behaviour hub . the late PISA figure , which be release in the last few week , show a stark picture of violence in school across the whole UK . nowhere else in the OECD do rate of violence reach anywhere near the level in the UK . pupil be almost twice as likely as the OECD average to witness a fight in their school — 39 % in England and 36 % in Scotland — and , as a teacher , I can say from experience that violence in school disrupt every part of pupil ' learning . exclusion clearly be not work , and the Scottish Government ' s recently announce proposal in Scotland be to put all the responsibility on teacher . what more can the Government do to illustrate a way forward for school to deal with this problem , so that young people ' s learning be not hamper by violence in the classroom ? for completeness , we ought to note that the PISA study note that the great majority of pupil in England report feel safe in school — very similar to the OECD average — and be less likely than the OECD average to see the most serious manifestation of such behaviour , such as see gang at school or see somebody with a weapon . it be absolutely true that school must have the full range of measure at their disposal . there be no right level of exclusion , and it should not be use lightly , but it have to be there ; it have to be available . early in our time in government , we make it clear that teacher can use reasonable force . we also extend search power , remove the requirement to give parent 24 hour ' write notice for after - school detention and simplify advice on how to prevent and tackle bullying , because a safe and ordered environment be essential for both child ' s education and their general wellbeing . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Ruth Perry ' s death be a tragedy that leave a hole in the heart of her family , her community and her school . throughout this year , I have be honour to work closely with Ruth ' s sister Julia and her friend Lisa and Edmund to introduce important change to inspection practice alongside Ofsted , which ensure that headteacher can share their inspection outcome , include with colleague , friend and family . our new change mean that if a school be grade " inadequate " due to ineffective safeguarding but all other judgment be " good " , it will be reinspecte within three month . that have now happen at Caversham Primary School , which be regrade as " good " this summer . we also double the wellbeing support for our school leader . in life , Ruth dedicate herself to her school , and we will build on her legacy to help ensure that such a tragedy never happen again . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement ; I agree with those sentiment . this Conservative Government will fund a new school to replace the flood - prone Tipton St John Primary School , which have have to close three time this year and have another near miss last week due to intense heavy rainfall . it be vital that spade be in the ground next year for the new school . will she meet I to discuss this urgent matter far ? our school rebuilding programme be transform 500 school across England , and I be delighted that Tipton St John Primary School be one of they . the school be currently in a flood zone and be impact by the recent storm . we be work actively with the diocese of Exeter and Devon local authority to identify suitable site for the school . I be happy to agree to meet my hon . friend very soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I start by again send my condolence and those of the entire Labour party to the family of Ruth Perry ? we must all now listen and learn to deliver an inspection system that work in the good interest of child , school staff and community . the Education Secretary have say that her Government be do everything to get child into school , yet this term the attendance rate have decline consistently , hit a terrible new low in the late figure . be not the real truth simply that the Government see attendance as a problem affect other people ' s child ? absolutely not — attendance be my no . 1 priority . I regularly meet and chair the attendance action alliance group , and we be determined to help ensure that child be in school , because that be where they can get the good education . we be work with GPs and other medical professional to ensure that everybody be aware that , first , school be a good place to be — actually , a well place to be — for those with mild anxiety and , secondly , we be there to give support in school , and we want everybody to be in school . those effort be start to pay off — we now have 380 , 000 few child miss school — but it be very much at the top of my agenda . if it be the Secretary of State ' s no . 1 priority , why be she not legislate for a register of child not in school ? that measure have wide support right across this House , but it be miss from the King ' s Speech despite the Secretary of State ' s repeat promise to legislate , despite it have be in the Government ' s abandon Schools Bill and despite it be in her Department ' s submission , accord to the permanent secretary at the Department . will the Secretary of State confirm , as the permanent secretary suggest , that it be block by no . 10 ? no , absolutely not . of course , more thing go into King ' s Speeches than there be legislative time ; that be a process that the permanent secretary lay out . but it be my priority , and I hope to legislate on it in the very short term . I hear from a school in my constituency last week that , even though it have six school counsellor , there be a long waiting list for child with mental health concern to see a counsellor . what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that school be adequately resource to good support pupil in that regard ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . we know that school - base provision work well when all staff be clear about how to support mental health , which be why we be provide senior mental health lead training grant to all state school , 14 , 400 of which have claim a grant so far . we be also work with the Department of Health and Social Care to extend mental health support team to cover at least 50 % of pupil by spring 2025 . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . if there be to be hope for a peaceful solution in the Israel - Gaza conflict , the input of palestinian academic will be crucial , but many have already lose of their life . could the Minister make a statement about representation that he have make to Cabinet colleague about introduce an emergency humanitarian visa for academic in Gaza ? I will write to the hon . Lady about that . parental choice be crucial , be it not ? to that end , when will wave 16 of the free school programme open ? my right hon . friend and constituency neighbour have be a long - time champion on this matter , and I know his local work well . there be 701 free school open , and a further 140 - plus be in the pipeline . there be a current round of application for consideration of special and alternative provision free school , but further capital would be a matter for future spending review . the independent review of relationship , sex and health education in school submit its recommendation to the Secretary of State back in September . when will those recommendation be make public ? if they be not to be make public , why not ? as the hon . Gentleman know , we be conduct a review of RSHE guidance . these be important and sensitive topic and it be important to get they right . he will not have long to wait to see the result . the Secretary of State will be familiar with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in Essex , and I thank she and her ministerial team for their support . can she give an assurance that contractor such as Mitie , employ to build a temporary accommodation unit for local school , be work with school to deliver programme on time and to meet their need ? right now , we be see delay that be affect the educational outcome of local child . the temporary classroom at St Andrew ' s Junior School be deliver by Essex County Council , which I thank once again for its exemplary leadership manage RAAC in Essex . the Department be work closely with all party to ensure that any concern be address quickly . work be ongoing today to fix a disabled access door . I can confirm that we will remove RAAC from all school and college . setting will be offer either grant funding or rebuilding project . we be assess the right solution for each case and we will update the House shortly . Swallowfield Primary School have a space - constrain site in my constituency , and rely on temporary accommodation to provide important special educational need and disability intervention for pupil . however , because of an inadvertent breach of section 77 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 , it have have a loss of space and may lose that unit because of the compromise effect on outdoor space . give that the space lose could never have be use for recreational purpose — order . these be topical question . it sound like there be important detail to get to grip with , so I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . the Government be rightly focus on technical as well as academic education with the new british standard . university technical college sleeve would support the Government to enhance pre - 16 technical education in secondary school . will the extra £ 50 million make available for technical education in school in the autumn statement be available for utc sleeve ? my hon . friend be a champion for UTCs and technical education . I be delighted that the Secretary of State recently approve two more utc . a couple of week ago I visit the brilliant Harlow BMAT STEM Academy , which be a utc , and UTC Portsmouth . we will respond shortly to Lord Baker ' s request for a utc sleeve pilot , as she mention . Corpus Christi junior school on Brixton Hill have be close since July due to RAAC . we now have tender approve for the significant work that the Department for Education say be necessary and that it would pay for , but they must begin in January to ensure that they be complete in time . could the Secretary of State explain why , despite repeat request , her Department have still not approve the necessary funding ? any further delay could mean that my young constituent be leave with further disruption and no building to learn in for the next academic year . we be , as the hon . Lady will know , commit to ensure that reasonable cost for temporary accommodation and so on be cover in the immediate term and beyond , to make sure that capital cost be cover for either refurbishment or , in some case , rebuild . there will be further detail to come before long . England have shoot up the international ranking in education , but school in Wales have not . do that not show that conservative education reform be help kid to thrive in school in England ? yes . we have to compare and contrast that with Wales , which have the low educational standard in the UK . the simple answer to why that is , be that it be run by Labour . under Labour , our education standard plummet from eighth to 27th in math , from seventh to 25th in reading and from fourth to 16th in science . thank to the hard work of our teacher and pupil , and the reform under this Conservative Government , we have rocket back up the table to 11th for math and 13th for reading and science . every time labour get power , education standard fall . the Conservatives be the only one take the long - term decision to deliver a well education for our child . please work with I to enable everybody to get in . despite my private Member ' s Bill on statutory guidance to reduce the cost of school uniform — the Education ( Guidance about Costs of School Uniforms ) Act 2021 — far too many school require a plethora of logo and brand item . when can we expect more robust intervention from Ministers to deal with this issue ? school should be reasonable in what they do and that be what our guidance set out . staff at Bramhall High School have work extremely hard to maintain the education of student follow the discovery of RAAC . I be grateful for the support give by the Department and Stockport Council to ensure that temporary classroom will be in place in the new year . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the headteacher and the staff for all their hard work ? give the exist condition of the school , will he join I in call for it to be include in a new build programme ? can you just help I to get through ? member have not get in yet and I really do want to help everybody . I join my hon . friend in thank and pay tribute to all the staff , child and family at Bramhall High Street . she be a great advocate for they . school and college will be offer either capital grant to fund refurbishment or permanently remove RAAC , or rebuilding project where they be need . last week , the Government publish an update of the list of school with RAAC . will the Minister confirm that the Department be seek to cross - check its list of school affect by RAAC with the BBC , because it remain the case that the BBC journalist have more of a grip on this crisis than the Government ? we have a lot of people work on this and rightly so , include make sure that all the survey get do . we have also commit to be transparent , which be why we publish regular update to the list . we continue to work at pace to try to resolve the problem as quickly as possible for the good of the child . Malvern College in my constituency employ hundred of local people , support the local economy , earn export earning for our country , ensure that people around the world love the UK , and be a huge supporter of our local school . what kind of destructive ideology would put all that at risk and make the UK the only country in the world to tax education ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be a dreadful policy and it will have exactly the opposite impact . it will probably actually cost money and mean child move school , and all because the Labour party just play the politic of envy . I offer my deep condolence to the family of Ruth Perry . follow the inquest last week , will the Secretary of State now consider the removal of the single - word judgment from ofsted inspection report ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for arrange the initial meeting with Julia Waters — Ruth ' s sister , who I know be his constituent — and attend the first few . I will be work very closely with the new chief inspector of school when he start three week today to see what more we can do , but we must remember that Ofsted play an important role in keep child safe and standard high . order . may I ask everyone to help I out in future , please ? some may not realise that topical question be mean to be speedy , so that all member can be accommodate . Israel - Hamas War : diplomacy ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the international diplomacy surround the Israel - Hamas war . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . the Government be undertake extensive and global diplomatic engagement to get much great aid into Gaza , support british national and the safe return of hostage , and prevent dangerous regional escalation . day after Hamas ' s brutal attack , the then Foreign Secretary be in Israel to see for himself the devastation work by this heinous act of terrorism , and his successor visit in late November to continue dialogue with israeli leader . last week the Prime Minister discuss the late effort to free hostage with Prime Minister Netanyahu , and stress the need to take great care to protect civilian in Gaza . two day later , the Foreign Secretary discuss the future of the middle east peace process with the US Secretary of State in Washington . the situation in Gaza can not continue , and we be deploy all our diplomatic resource , include in the United Nations , to help to find a viable solution . the scale of civilian death and displacement in Gaza be shocking . although Israel have the right to defend itself against terror , restore its security and bring the hostage home , it must abide by international law and take all possible measure to protect civilian . we have call for far and long humanitarian pause . it be imperative that we increase the flow of aid into Gaza , but as we have say at the UN , call for a ceasefire ignore the fact that Hamas have commit act of terror and continue to hold civilian hostage . we remain committed to make progress towards a two - state solution . Britain ' s long - stand position on the middle east peace process be clear : we support a negotiate settlement lead to a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . I know that you continue with your good endeavour , Mr Speaker , but when it come to a matter as important as this , I think we see why it be so problematic that the Foreign Secretary be not in this House . the scale of death and destruction see in Gaza over the last two month have be intolerable : the child leave under the rubble , the family displace from their home , and the many innocent Palestinians face the threat of starvation and disease . despite international pressure on Israel to change the way it be fight — to not replicate the kind of devastating tactic that it use in the north , to protect school and hospital , and to ensure that humanitarian aid be ramp up — labour share grave concern that those condition be not be meet . diplomacy , not bomb and bullet , be the only route to a last peace . the grave warning from the United Nations can not be ignore , and they show the urgent need for action to relieve the suffering . it be right that the UN Security Council have be debate this war , but it constitute a failure that it have be unable to reach a consensus and to speak with a collective voice . labour want a resolution to pass the UN Security Council — a resolution that properly condemn Hamas terrorist and the appalling 7 October attack on Israel , and call for the release of all hostage ; a resolution that demand a renew cessation of hostility and the protection of palestinian civilian ; a resolution that act as a stepping - stone towards an endure end to this war . we can not give up . too much be at stake . can the Minister explain what step he will now take to help reach that consensus ? can he update the House on any progress to open up the second crossing at Kerem Shalom ? international diplomacy must focus on Gaza , but it must also focus on further escalation in the west bank and the wide region , include Lebanon . will the Government therefore increase pressure on the israeli Government in the west bank by impose travel ban on illegal settler involve in attack , serious criminal activity and the fostering of hatred ? will he say unequivocally , like Labour , that we will not tolerate the expulsion of the people of Gaza or the west bank , and that they must be able to return to their home ? finally , will the Minister and the Government back Labour ' s call for a joint western and arab - lead international contact group to replace the defunct quartet ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I recognise the enormous authority that Lord Cameron hold in these matter and the right hon . Gentleman ' s request that he should be available in the House . I will do my good to satisfy he on the question that he have ask . as he know , Lord Cameron be keen to engage with the House of Commons in every possible way . the right hon . Gentleman ask why Britain do not support the UN Security Council resolution . I can tell he clearly that there be a lot good stuff in the resolution that Britain do support , but there be no condemnation of Hamas , and for that reason we feel unable to support it . however , we do not oppose it , because it have a lot of useful and important stuff in it , and we therefore abstain . he will recall that there have be a number of resolution . we vote yes to the UN resolution draft by the Americans , but that be veto by China and Russia , apparently because they could not bring themselves to condemn what Hamas have do on 7 October . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about settler violence . the targeted killing of civilian be completely abhorrent and we be seek that those responsible should be not just arrest but prosecute and punish . on his comment about travel ban , I can tell he that planning be go on . the Foreign Secretary discuss this with his US counterpart last week and I hope it may be possible to say something about that shortly . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about Kerem Shalom . I think that the position of Kerem Shalom be be enhance at the moment and I hope very much that that will lead to some facilitation , but those discussion be ongoing at this time . I be sure that the Minister will want to condemn the gratuitous sign of antisemitism that we see on the street again this weekend , which lead to Karen Pollock from the Holocaust Educational Trust describe London as " a no - go zone for jewish people " . I know that he will want to condemn that . on the broad issue of a negotiate ceasefire , will he confirm that the Government ' s position be as it have be throughout — namely , that Hamas can play no role in the future of the governance of Gaza and that it be Hamas who be responsible for what be happen in Gaza today ? I very much agree with what my hon . friend have say . on his point about a ceasefire , at the moment a ceasefire be wholly implausible . first of all , Hamas would not agree to one . they have make it absolutely clear that they want to replicate the terrible act that take place on 7 October , so I fear that that be not go to happen . that be why we call for extended humanitarian pause , and as I understand it , that remain the position of his Majesty ' s Official Opposition . I call the SNP spokesperson . humanitarian aid agency be now repeatedly warn in strong and unmistakable term that they simply can not fulfil their mandate in Gaza . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency have say that Gaza be " hell on earth " . over 2 million Palestinians now need food assistance . what the hell be the UK Government do allow people to starve to death when they could do something about it ? what in God ' s name make they think it be acceptable to stand by as more than 49 , 000 people be injure and the hospital that would have treat they be be bomb and starve of supply , when they could have an influence over that ? how on earth have we reach a time when 18 , 000 people have be slaughter in Gaza by Government say - so and still they be not call for a ceasefire ? do they know that thousand of people in the UK be now scream in horror at their tv screen because they just can not believe what they be witness in Gaza , and that they be stun by the UK ' s response , which be to say that Israel have the right to defend itself ? all country have the right to defend themselves , but how can kill the former Glasgow University student Dima Alhaj and her six - month - old baby ever be describe as self - defence ? why do the UK abstain on the UN resolution call for a ceasefire ? the former Home Secretary call that disappointing . I call it shameful . I recognise the passion with which the hon . Lady speak , but I have explain in some detail why the Government feel it be not possible to support the resolution . we do not oppose it ; we abstain . I urge the hon . Lady to think again , as a ceasefire be wholly implausible . it be much more sensible to try to get these humanitarian pause , where we have see some success . we urgently need to see more , for the reason she set out so eloquently . the Prime Minister have repeatedly express his unequivocal support for Israel ' s right to defend itself . may I urge the Government to maintain that position , to stay the course and to ensure that we continue to give Israel our strong support ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we have make it clear that Israel have every right to defend itself , but that it must abide by international humanitarian law and the law of war . it be " wrong and illegal to target civilian … international law be very clear that there mustn ' t be the targeting of civilian " . those be not my word , but the word of the new Foreign Secretary , and then Prime Minister , during the 2014 war in Gaza . give that over 10 , 000 palestinian child alone have be kill , can the Minister confirm whether the Foreign Secretary , and therefore this Conservative Government , still believe that Israel ' s target of civilian be wrong and illegal ? what step be he take to hold the israeli Government to account ? again , I recognise the integrity with which the hon . Gentleman speak . I can tell he that , no , the israeli Government never target civilian , but they be pursue a strategy of degrade and eliminate the appalling perpetrator and the military machine that work the terrible disaster that take place on 7 October , which I remind he be a pogrom . More jewish people be kill on that day than on any single day since the holocaust in 1945 . even if the Foreign Secretary be at the Dispatch Box today , I doubt if he would do a well job than my right hon . friend . can he say whether the Government have make any estimate of the number of Hamas fighter who have be kill ? we seem to get very precise estimate of the number of civilian who have be kill but , clearly , a large number of Hamas fighter be engage in oppose israeli force on the ground . be any other people , other than Hamas fighter , resist israeli force on the ground ? I thank my right hon . friend for his kind personal remark . truth be often the first casualty in war , and none of the figure that we be hear can be rely upon . word now fail to describe the despondency feel by those of we who stand for peace . when I say " we " I do not just mean those of palestinian descent ; I also mean people in Israel who have fight for peace over many year . the only way to have a last peace — a peace without fear — be to have two state , so I will repeat the question that I put last time : what be this Government do ? later today , I will table a Bill to recognise Palestine . will the Minister meet I to discuss it ? how do we prevent this from happen ever again ? I will , of course , be very pleased to meet the hon . Lady . we have previously discuss the content of the Bill in another situation , but I will be very pleased to meet she . we be develop proposal . the hon . Lady specifically ask what we be do and , obviously , we be try to lift people ' s eye to the political track that will , at some point , be possible . we be look in detail at develop proposal for support for the Palestinian Authority to build up the sinew of statehood , in pursuit of the establish policy of both the major political party in this House that there should be a two - state solution , with Israel live behind secure border and Palestine as a free and independent state . the Minister do say that too many Palestinians have die in pursuit of a solution to the Hamas problem , but I wonder : do he genuinely believe , and be it the Government ' s position , that a military solution — a military defeat of Hamas — be possible ? I have no doubt that it be possible to degrade and stop the military machine that work the terrible disaster on 7 October . when address an ideology , however , it be extremely important to recognise that a political process be absolutely essential . that be why the Government be spend , along with our ally , enormous amount of time in try to work through how that could be achieve . shamefully , our Government refuse to back the ceasefire at the UN Security Council last week , when a motion be support by 100 country , include France , Spain and Portugal , among other european nation . in the face of the indiscriminate killing and suffering that we be see day after day in Gaza , be it not a failure of moral leadership to refuse to back a ceasefire ? will this constant refusal to back a ceasefire not be see as give the green light to Israel to commit yet more war crime ? I think the hon . Gentleman would receive the same response from those on his own Front Bench as he will receive from I . as I have already say to the House , a ceasefire be simply impractical , because we have to have two side that be willing to sign up to a ceasefire and there be absolutely no suggestion , at any point , that either of they will . a Minister in the iranian Government , General Ezzatollah Zarghami , formerly of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , have tell iranian medium that this " first mission " as the " production manager " of Iranian - make rocket be to supply those rocket to be fire into Israel and hit civilian . he openly tell iranian medium that he live in Hamas terror tunnel " for some time " . that be an iranian Minister openly admit to have live in terrorist tunnel and supply rocket . do my right hon . friend share my concern about Iran bankroll and arm Hamas ? yes , I share that concern very much , as do the Government . on illegal settlement , do not the experience of the past two decade show that word have absolutely no impact on Prime Minister Netanyahu ? I welcome the Minister ' s announcement today that the Government be examine sanction the violent illegal settler , follow in America ' s footstep , but why can we not have a ban on all trade between the United Kingdom and the illegal settlement ? the Government have always make it absolutely clear that the settlement be illegal under international law , and we will continue to make that case as forcefully as we think appropriate . I agree with the deputy Secretary of State ' s comment on degrade Hamas , but do he agree that the malevolent force in the region be Iran ? although , obviously , we do not want a direct conflict with Iran , what more can the Government do , with our partner and ally , to ensure that we can degrade the capacity and capability of Iran to inflict the suffering that it have inflict on the region ? my right hon . friend will know that the Government have be clear that measure need to be take , and we have use our own military asset in this respect , to make sure that the conflict do not widen . we have send a very clear warning to Iran in that respect , along with our ally , and he may rest assure that we continue to watch this issue with extreme care . in response to an early question , the Minister talk of dangerous regional escalation and the scale of the loss of life . how do his Government hope to prevent either , and support a just and last peace , without call for a ceasefire ? how can they claim to support a two - state solution when they do not recognise the state of Palestine ? one plus zero have never equal two . it be , I think , the policy of both side of the House that we should not pursue the possibility of a ceasefire , because there be no possibility , for very trenchant reason that have be set out . the hon . Lady be , however , right to point to the political horizon , to ensure that we take advantage , as soon as the moment be plausible , of build a political track . as part of that , we be look to build palestinian state capacity . we know that Gaza should be under palestinian control when this be over . Hamas have no place in a future of Gaza and we must never allow they ever to be able to entrench themselves in the civilian population again . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . what recent engagement have my right hon . Friend have with qatari counterpart in relation to their pivotal role as mediator between Israel and Hamas ? discussion with Qatari go on all the time . indeed , my noble Friend Lord Ahmad , the Foreign Office Minister with responsibility for the middle east , have be in Qatar recently . the Minister will have see picture of the horrific loss of life in Gaza , which start up again over the weekend , and of half - naked man be parade through the street . the Geneva convention prohibit turn prisoner of war into object of " public curiosity " . he will also know of the grave concern about report of the use of rape by Hamas fighter on 7 October . all of this show that we will need a very clear mechanism for the investigation of allegation of war crime and for accountability , if war crime be find to have happen . will the Minister set out what the UK Government , who have say that international law must be uphold , believe that mechanism should be ? I have a great deal of sympathy with the point that the hon . Lady make . the british Government have make it clear that all party in this terrible conflict must abide by international humanitarian law . we continue to identify and look for mechanism for ensure that there can be no impunity in that respect , and that there will be transparency over the action that the force take . it be good to see you back in the Chair , Mr Speaker . the humanitarian pause give an opportunity for the welcome release of israeli hostage . however , as a result of palestinian prisoner be release , there be a concern that Hamas be gain ground in the west bank and could end up be the major force in the whole of the area that we call Palestine . what effort be my right hon . friend make to ensure the release of the hostage without any condition ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to focus on the terrible plight of the hostage . I can not give the House a run commentary on what be happen in respect of the hostage , but there have be no new development . he will know that the Ministry of Defence be supply surveillance flight over Gaza to assist in that general endeavour , but he may rest assure that the plight of the hostage be at the top of our list of concern . the Israeli Defence Ministry have tell the UN that it " must do well " at deliver aid to Gaza . this be not a natural disaster ; it be deliberate military action , during which israeli force have so far kill 130 UN aid staff , mostly alongside their family . how many more innocent people must die before member on both Front Benches realise the scale of the atrocity and demand a permanent ceasefire as the only way out ? I understand the right hon . Lady ' s strength of feeling , but she do no service to member on either Front Bench , who have make it clear that the reason why a ceasefire would not work be know to the House and that try to secure humanitarian pause — the long the well — be the way to release humanitarian support to those who be suffer in the way she describe . the despicable action of Hamas and Iran be responsible for this conflict , but proportionality be important in the rule of war , as my right hon . friend know . can he explain what we be do , work with our friend in the middle east , to encourage a sense of proportionality in Israel ' s response , so that we minimise the many civilian casualty while respect their need to take military action ? my hon . friend express the balance very clearly and very well , particularly in the first part of his question . the important point , which Britain make continually to Israel , be that its response must be proportionate , and it must operate within international humanitarian law . we urgently need to see step towards a permanent ceasefire and an end to hostility on all side , but the Minister be right that neither Israel nor Hamas have agree to that . in seek the release of hostage , and know that we need to see an end to Hamas ' s influence and place in Gaza , there ultimately need to be an alternative to Israel ' s current strategy , with hospital now at break point , food and medicine not get through , and effectively the de - development of Gaza . what be the Government do to push for a consensus at the UN , and for a strategy to ensure that the International Criminal Court will be able to hold all party to account for their conduct ? the hon . Lady make an important point about the critical need to get support into Gaza . yesterday , 100 truck get through , and 300 , 000 litre of fuel get through during 9 and 10 December . it be nothing like enough , but we be do everything that we can in respect of the humanitarian effort , alongside our likeminded partner , to galvanise the international humanitarian community to get aid into Gaza . it be not an issue of get aid into the region ; the aid be there , and there be plenty more back - up to come . it be about actually get it into Gaza . we be stretch every sinew to try to achieve an increase in humanitarian support as fast as we can . few would deny Israel ' s right to defend itself against an internationally proscribe terrorist organisation , but as a military man , I do not always find it easy to reconcile that with what we be see on the ground in Gaza , or the broader operational nature of that campaign . could the Minister please assure I of the effort be conduct behind close door to ensure israeli restraint ? my hon . friend be right to underline the concern about the humanitarian casualty , but as I have say repeatedly in response to this urgent question , we be do everything we can to make the point that he have emphasise . Hamas be an obstacle to peace and a two - state solution , and they must release all hostage now . while push for that as a means to further pause in hostility , can the Minister confirm what discussion be take place with international partner to create the condition where Israel be secure and Palestinians can see a path to reconstruction , renewal and statehood in Gaza ? I reassure the hon . Lady that those discussion be indeed take place . the Foreign Secretary be in Washington DC last week , and he have discussion with his counterpart . the Prime Minister have a lengthy conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu on 5 December , and at COP the Prime Minister meet Israel , Qatar , Egypt and Jordan . he emphasise throughout the importance of provide a political horizon . the hon . Lady be right to identify the set of action that be require , but she may rest assure that the Government be do everything we can to pursue they . I be profoundly disappointed by the Minister ' s comment when he dismiss call for a humanitarian ceasefire as be implausible . if it be so implausible , can he explain why that be the position of every other country in the world with the exception of the United States of America , and do he not understand that it be damage this country ' s credibility to be an honest broker in the necessary international discussion that have to follow ? can he name one action by his Department that have be design to try to gain the trust of the palestinian people in this conflict ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s last point , I be in no doubt that Lord Cameron ' s visit to the west bank will have do just that . on his first point , perhaps he should ask those who be advocate for a ceasefire the question that I have seek to answer : how can there be a ceasefire when neither party to the military action would be willing to accept one ? since the terrible attack by Hamas on 7 October , more than 250 Palestinians have be kill by illegal settler in the west bank and there be unconfirmed report of the involvement of the Israel Defence Forces in the violence . the criterion outline who can receive arm export licence from the Government include strong wording on violence against woman and child . what diplomatic engagement have the Minister have to ensure that any arm export from this country be not use to facilitate unlawful military activity ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to make it clear that the target killing of civilian be completely unacceptable . that be why I say in response to the shadow Foreign Secretary that we seek not just the arrest but the prosecution and punishment of those responsible . in respect of arm licence , she may well know that Britain have the most demanding export licence regime of any country in the world . I think that can give we all confidence that those export licence be grant on the right term . be it not very obvious that Israel be herd the entire population of Gaza , in a state of utter desperation and poverty , with a lack of food , medicine and water , and with serious injury that can not be treat , and that its ultimate aim be to expel the population of Gaza and to reoccupy it ? do the Minister not think it be time that we support the call for a ceasefire , as every other nation in the world have do , and stop be isolate in this ridiculous approach of say that somehow a ceasefire can not work ? we have to start somewhere to save life . we have to start somewhere to prevent this catastrophe from get even bad , on top of the 18 , 000 already kill in Gaza . I have set out what we be try to do to relieve the suffering the right hon . Gentleman so eloquently describe in Gaza , but I have to caution he that a simple call for a ceasefire be not the answer . much well , in the view of the Government , be to make it clear that humanitarian pause — preferably extend humanitarian pause — offer hope of the sort of relief that he and I both wish to see . when this terrible conflict come to an end , as all war must , both Gaza and the west bank will require substantial investment to restore and enhance the economic wellbeing of the palestinian people . what discussion be my right hon . friend have with other country about how they may take a role in an economic revival of the area , which could play a role in a last peace ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to emphasise that the economic reconstruction and rebuilding of Gaza will be an essential element in any political settlement . more widely , as I have set out , the Government be try to make sure that , when there be an opportunity to drive forward that political horizon , that be precisely what we will do . I have just meet with Othman , a constituent from Halifax , who be originally from Gaza and be utterly distressed about what his family back home be endure . the UN Secretary - General have declare that " nowhere in Gaza be safe " for civilian . we know that the aid get in be utterly insufficient and the humanitarian situation can not be address until the violence end . I have hear what the Minister have to say , but the humanitarian pause that have be secure might have feel impossible at the start of this conflict . we urge he to redouble his effort to work towards an endure humanitarian ceasefire , which surely be the next logical step . I agree very much with the hon . Lady about the importance of secure a humanitarian pause . that be exactly what we be do ; she will be pleased , like I , to hear that the United Kingdom permanent representative at the United Nations be on a visit to the region at this time to see , among other thing , how we can achieve precisely that . the Minister talk up the UK ' s arm export licence , but Amnesty International have identify a particular loophole in those licence : the 2002 incorporation guideline allow UK component to be send to third destination for onward export to Israel . can he give I any assurance that , unlike in 2009 and 2014 , that be not happen right now ? I have set out the fact that Britain have the tough export licence and regulation anywhere in the world . of course , if the hon . Lady have any evidence of those licence be infract in some way , she should bring it to the attention of the authority . the Minister will be aware that , as far back as 10 October , the independent UN commission of inquiry say : " there be already clear evidence that war crime may have be commit in the late explosion of violence in Israel and Gaza , and all those who have violate international law and target civilian must be hold accountable for their crime . " as of Saturday , the death toll be more than 17 , 000 people , of whom nearly 13 , 000 be woman and child , and thousand more be believe to be bury under the rubble . every passing day be another day of child die . like so many of my Vauxhall constituent who email I , it be hard not to feel powerless when we watch the scale of death and destruction day after day . do the Minister agree that the International Criminal Court should be the jurisdiction that address the conduct of all party in adhere to international law ? the Government have make clear what the role and remit of the International Criminal Court be . as the hon . Lady will be aware , the british Government be a strong supporter of the International Criminal Court . the situation that she describe only emphasise the requirement — the demand — that we achieve another humanitarian pause and be able to get deeply need humanitarian supply into Gaza . with hundred of thousand of Palestinians now homeless and part of northern Gaza render effectively uninhabitable , there be understandably real concern that many people will not be able to return to their home . can the Minister tell we what representation he have make to make it absolutely clear that permanent forced displacement of the Gazan population be unacceptable , not just across international border and into the west bank , but within Gaza itself ? the hon . Lady will know that , in order to help those people , the possibility of provide safe area in which support can be give be be actively look at by the United Nations . the problem with safe area be that they have to be absolutely safe , and we must have the understanding that both Hamas and Israel , and every other entity , will guarantee safety when people be bring there to receive support . that be an ongoing discussion , but it be an area of considerable concern to the United Nations and other humanitarian , which be seek to operate in this space . the Labour party continue to call for a cessation of hostility in Gaza to give we the time and space to alleviate the immense suffering of palestinian civilian by get the require food , water , medicine and other aid into blockaded Gaza , and to facilitate the release of all remain hostage . do the Minister agree that the international community can and must use the next cessation of hostility to make political progress towards what we all want : an end to the conflict and a permanent ceasefire ? the hon . Gentleman be not , I think , stray from the policy that have be set out by his Front Benchers . we all want to see those pause develop so that urgently need humanitarian aid can get into Gaza , so in that respect , I think that he and the Government be in agreement . I have hear the Minister ' s explanation of why the UK make the deeply disappointing decision not to support the UN Security Council resolution call for a ceasefire . over the weekend , he may have hear the comment of Tom Fletcher — a former ambassador and no . 10 adviser — who say that when the UK support such a resolution in 2009 , it help to move the US away from a veto and towards abstention , ultimately secure a ceasefire . be the Minister at risk of let the good be the enemy of the good , when we should be grab every possible opportunity to end the bloodshed and the suffering that we see in Gaza ? the Government be do everything we possibly can . I have set out clearly the difficulty of achieve a ceasefire when neither of the prime party to it be willing to accept it . I hope that the hon . Lady will reflect on that . the UK ' s abstention on the UN Security Council resolution on Friday be shocking and wholly wrong . it have be report today that Egypt have invoke resolution 377 to circumvent the US veto on the Security Council , act to maintain peace . two million Gazans be displace and face disease and starvation , and 18 , 000 people have be kill , 70 % of whom be woman and child . will the UK now back a ceasefire — I implore you , Minister — at an emergency session of the UN General Assembly ? that be the only way peace will be achieve . we have quite a few people stand . I be go to finish at 4 . 30 pm , and I do not want member to miss out . the hon . Lady make an eloquent call for a ceasefire , but she need to address the point that have be make elsewhere in the House about why a ceasefire can not be achieve . I hope she will feel that the Government be do the right thing in try to secure humanitarian pause and increase the flow of humanitarian supply through Rafah and other entry into Gaza . do the Minister share my upset and deep concern that the UN Security Council be unable to find the wording for a resolution to end fighting in Palestine that all its member could agree on and to make political progress towards the permanent ceasefire we all desperately want ? if he do agree that a newly word UN resolution be need , what role will the UK Government play ? I pay tribute to the british team at the United Nations under its leader , Barbara Woodward . that team have an extraordinary effect , punch above Britain ' s weight in try to corral people to agreement , but I hope the hon . Lady will understand that in the circumstance of last week , it be not possible for Britain to agree to a resolution . in many respect , it be a very good resolution , but as I point out , if there be not the will to condemn Hamas for the appalling atrocity commit on 7 October , we simply do not feel we could support it . I have to tell the Minister that a humanitarian pause be merely a delay : innocent child be be bomb , and a humanitarian pause do not stop that . however , can he tell we what consideration be be give to the huge number of Gazans injure in the IDF ' s indiscriminate attack , for whom proper treatment be utterly impossible ? constituent who be NHS clinician have get in touch with I , look to offer their assistance in the region just as soon as it be practical and safe to do so . have any discussion take place about facilitate such offer ? if , as I think the hon . Gentleman be say , those be offer to provide hospital and medical support , we — along with other — be actively look at what support we can give to those who be injure in Gaza and may come out of Gaza . the Minister say early that international humanitarian law must always be uphold with no impunity , but what do that mean in practice ? what mechanism be he propose we use , and what specific conversation have his Department have with the International Criminal Court to investigate potential breach of humanitarian law ? have it withdraw from the position of the former Prime Minister that Israel be outside the jurisdiction of the ICC ? I must make it clear to the hon . Gentleman that the Government ' s position on the International Criminal Court have be well set out — not least that it be not for minister to make those judgment , but for judge , the prosecutor and the court itself . I be afraid that I can not help he on that point , but on the importance of abide by international humanitarian law , of there be no impunity and of there be retrospective judgment on that , the hon . Gentleman will know that the British Government have be one of the foremost government around the world in insist that impunity should never exist . do the Minister agree with Labour that Israel must not besiege or blockade Gaza , must comply with international law , must protect innocent life and must not replicate the devastating aerial bombing tactic that have be use in northern Gaza and , accord to israeli report , have result in 61 % of death be civilian ? the hon . Lady ask whether the Government agree with Labour on these matter . as she know , there be agreement on many of these thing across the two front Benches , in particular that call for a ceasefire be not the right thing to do . israeli Defence Minister Gallant have be report as say that , " Gaza win ' t return to what it be before . we will eliminate everything " , and that , " we be fight human animal and we act accordingly . " he be not the only israeli political leader to make such dehumanising statement . all the while , war crime be inarguably be commit by israeli force , who have kill close to 20 , 000 palestinian people . do the Minister believe that such statement indicate genocidal intent , and what concrete step be he take to sanction those responsible ? what I can say be that , in Gaza , there will in the future be no place for a Hamas Administration . the IDF promise we precision and intelligence , but what the world be witness be the wholesale destruction of a society and a people . what must change for the UK Government to vote tomorrow for a UN Security Council motion for a cessation of hostility that will ultimately lead to a ceasefire ? the two point I have mention about the UN be that there be plenty of good line in the UN Security Council resolution on which we abstain , but that we will not support a resolution that do not condemn Hamas for the appalling event that take place on 7 October . I welcome the shift in the UK Government position to abstention at the United Nations last week , a different position from that take by the United States . Qatar say that the former willingness to discuss pause be not in place at the moment , and the Minister have rightly say that event in Gaza can not be allow to carry on . what do he think it will take to re - establish the willingness to discuss pause as a first step , hopefully , towards the permanent ending of the conflict ? the right hon . member be right to focus on secure these pause , because there be precedent and the hope that we can achieve that . what be most important be that everyone should press for these pause for as long as possible — previously , we be ask for five - day pause as a minimum — so that the humanitarian supply and support can get into Gaza . to clarify something the Minister say about the United Nations resolution , if it have rightly condemn Hamas , would the UK Government have vote for it so that we can all see an end to the killing ? unfortunately , it be not possible to achieve that compromise when it come to negotiate the UN resolution , but the hon . Member may rest assure that in all these matter Britain be a force for good at the UN in try to achieve the end aim that everyone in this House agree be require . could the Minister clarify whether the UK Government fail to support the UN Security Council resolution because it do not mention Hamas or because they oppose a ceasefire in any event , or both ? if the Government have doubt about Israel ' s adherence to international humanitarian law , should they not call for a ceasefire observe by all side until they be persuade that palestinian civilian be not subject to collective punishment ? it be the plausibility of a ceasefire that inform our decision on that matter , but on the hon . member ' s specific question , we be unable to support the resolution because it do not make an absolute condemnation of what Hamas do on 7 October . do the Minister now accept that if Israel ' s intention be to raze Gaza to the ground , which it seem as though it be , that can not possibly help move the situation towards a long - term two - state solution , or do he suspect there may be some in the israeli Government who have no intention of want to achieve that solution ? I do not believe it be Israel ' s intention to raze Gaza to the ground . Israel ' s intention be to ensure that Hamas terrorist can never inflict on the state of Israel the appalling event that take place on 7 October . give that the UN Security Council be unable , regrettably , to achieve a ceasefire because of the decision of the US and UK Governments , what discussion have take place about create a ceasefire in the south of Gaza , to which many Palestinians in Gaza have be send for their security and safety , and would the Minister advocate such a position ? for reason the hon . Member will understand , there be no discussion about a ceasefire within the government — I have very clearly set out the reason — but on southern Gaza , we be explore every possible mechanism to bring the relief of humanitarian supply , include the extremely difficult but plausible advent of safe zone . it be possible to condemn both the brutal rape and murder carry out by Hamas and Israel ' s indiscriminate and illegal killing of woman and child , and we now have 800 scholar of genocide state that this continued bombardment of Gaza be at grave risk of be genocide . with that in mind , at what point will the Government consider support a permanent ceasefire ? as I have repeatedly set out to the House , the reason why the Government , and indeed the Opposition Front Bench , be unable to call for a ceasefire be very clear . at the end of last week the US veto a Security Council resolution bring about by the UN Secretary - General trigger article 99 . what be the Government do to encourage our friend in Washington to support , or at least abstain on , a resolution that do refer to Hamas and that be acceptable to other permanent member of the Security Council ? the team in our mission at the UN in New York work night and day to try and get progress on the terrible event take place in the middle east and it will be encourage by the hon . Gentleman ' s word that more can and should be do . United Nations Secretary - Generals initiate article 99 very rarely ; I understand this be only the seventh time that this have happen , and it be only initiate when the Secretary - General believe an event threaten the maintenance of international peace and security . as the UK abstain on the resolution and 13 member support it , with the US against , the UK be in an isolated position ; do this mean the UK Government disagree fundamentally with the position of the UN Secretary - General ? the UN Secretary - General and the british Government work extremely closely together ; it be an extraordinarily important and close relationship for both party . but I have set out very clearly why it have not be possible for Britain to support a ceasefire , and above all it be because of the impracticality of call for it . I thank the Minister for his clear answer and clear understanding of the conflict . the destruction and dismantling of the Hamas terrorist group must be achieve and conclude before any permanent peace can be find . story in the press today tell of those who come so close to be release ; the return of hostage be an urgent matter for the family , who have wait over a month imagine the horror be face by their love one . what progress be be make to see at least the woman and child return , and can our Government and our Minister say whether anything far can be do to help to see this war end and people return to a semblance of normal life ? my hon . friend speak for many in the House with his compassion and determination to improve what be a dreadful position , as have be so clearly set out throughout this urgent question , and the whole House will join he in hope we can make progress in the come day and week . former Afghan Special Forces : deportation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on former afghan special force face deportation from Pakistan to Afghanistan . I thank the shadow Minister for ask this urgent question . the afghan relocation and assistance policy be far more generous in design than predecessor scheme such as the ex - gratia scheme . none the less , ARAP be a specific scheme intend to support those who work for , with or alongside the UK armed force in support of the UK mission or national security objective in Afghanistan . while we be acutely aware of the difficult circumstance in which many Afghans find themselves , not everyone will be eligible even if they work for the Afghanistan security force . many Afghans have work in proximity to UK armed force but this may have be in service of the Afghan Government , in a nation - building capacity , or though work directly with other nation . CF333 and atf444 , know as the Triples , be Afghan - lead taskforce set up to counter drug trafficking and organised crime and they report into the Afghan Ministry of Interior Affairs . they be therefore a component of the afghan national security force and be not automatically in scope for relocation under ARAP . regrettably , we can not relocate all former member of the afghan national security force under the ARAP scheme . that mean that some Afghans , whose bravery and heroism be in no doubt whatever — indeed , I serve alongside many of they myself — such as certain member of the CF333 and ATF444 taskforce , will not be eligible for relocation under ARAP . each ARAP application be assess on a case - by - case basis . all application , include those from former member of the Triples , be scrutinise on their own merit and in line with our publish policy and eligibility criterion , available on the Government website , and in line with the immigration rule . all applicant , irrespective of job role , will be eligible only if they individually meet these criterion outline in the publish policy . I must emphasise this point for the record : any suggestion that we be make blanket decision — eligible or ineligible — for any cohort of applicant , or that we have any preconceive position on any application to the scheme , be simply untrue . that be not the approach that Defence take on processing application as a matter of policy . the MOD consult the evidence provide from each applicant and our own internal record and engage with internal stakeholder and other Departments when determine eligibility in line with the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the immigration rule . since before the fall of Kabul , the Government ' s treatment of Afghans who work alongside british troop have be a shameful saga of failure . minister have fail to deal with the ballooning backlog of ARAP application , broken housing promise , data breach and Afghans stick abroad in limbo fear for their life . today , we have learn from report that former afghan special force who serve alongside british troop be possibly face deportation back to Afghanistan . let we be clear : that mean that life could be put at serious harm from the Taliban . all of we in this House want to see the Government finally and fully honour the commitment give by Britain as a nation to these Afghans . that be why we be all here today . urgent detail be now need from the Minister about this escalating situation . first , how many former afghan special force who serve alongside our force be at risk of imminent deportation from Afghanistan to Pakistan ? what assessment have be make by the Ministry of Defence of the threat to these afghan elite force if they be deport back to Afghanistan ? what assessment have be make of the threat to their family , and be it as grim as we all fear ? what be the current backlog in ARAP case ? in a parliamentary question answer last week about the safety of afghan refugee in Pakistan , the Government say that they have " receive assurance from the Government of Pakistan that Afghans be support … under the Afghans Relocations and Assistance Policy ( ARAP ) and Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ( ACRS ) will remain safe in Pakistan while they await relocation to the UK . " in light of today ' s news , what be the original assurance give to the UK by the Pakistani Government ? can the Minister confirm that zero Afghans pende ARAP or ACRS application decision or relocation will be send back to Afghanistan ? General Sir Richard Barrons , who serve with the British Army for 12 year in Afghanistan , describe the failure to relocate these former afghan special force to the UK as a " disgrace " and a " betrayal " . he be right , be he not ? there can be no more excuse . minister must fix their ail afghan scheme and honour the commitment give to our afghan friend before they be deport back to Afghanistan and potentially kill by the Taliban . I be not sure where to start on that . what the hon . Gentleman I think be knowingly do be conflate a number of separate issue . there be the issue over the processing of those who can legitimately come to the UK under the ARAP scheme . find those applicant in among ten of thousand of application — many of which be duplicate and many of which be bogus , though plenty be not — have be a heck of a task for the team within the MOD that have be task with that over the past two year . however , we be get to the bottom of the pile . crucially , those who be eligible under category 2 , which be those who work directly for the british armed force , whether as patrol interpreter or cultural adviser and so on , be know to we . we have the employment record , so , as I have say to the House many time , we have be able to go into the list of application , find those whom we be look for and whom we know to have work for we and accelerate their approval . as we get through the tail end of the application , we be see lot of rejection , because frankly we have already go ahead and find those who match the employment record that we have from our time in Afghanistan . on those who be eligible for the core of the scheme , I have a great deal of confidence that we really be reach the bottom of the list , and we be move at pace to bring they out . I will first answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question about the deportation of those who be eligible . I speak to both the UK high commissioner to Islamabad and the Pakistan high commissioner to London this afternoon before come to the House . both be entirely comfortable with the assurance we have receive from the Pakistan Government that those for whom we have make an eligibility decision will not be deport . I know of one case where somebody who have receive a rejection be deport before their appeal be hear . I be not sure that there be necessarily anything we can do to mitigate that — Pakistan be , after all , a sovereign country and have every right to say who can and can not be in the country — but that person , whose review be successful , be successfully bring back into Pakistan and be now wait to come to the UK . as for those in Islamabad , wide Pakistan or any other third country and who may have work for the afghan special force , the answer be that we can not possibly know that , because we do not have the employment record of the afghan special force . therefore , we can not say who do and do not work with they . we know who have apply to ARAP , and every time someone do , we make an individual judgment about what that person do . be they just a member of the Triples — heroic and important , but not necessarily work directly for and with we — or be they a member of the Triples who routinely work with UK special force or the intelligence community , who would thus be eligible under ARAP category 4 ? I appreciate that that be a suboptimal answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , but if we do not know who work for the afghan special force because they work for the Afghan Ministry of Interior Affairs or the Afghan Ministry of Defence , it be impossible to say how many of those people may or may not now be in Pakistan . I think I be right in say that the International Security Assistance Force be officially a NATO assistance force to the then Afghan Government , so what be there to prevent NATO country from band together and make joint representation to the Pakistani Government that whatever they do with former service personnel who , at our request , fight against the Taliban , they should not now mercilessly deport they to the tender non - mercy of the Taliban , who be currently out for vengeance ? I understand my right hon . friend ' s question . he be a great champion of this cohort . NATO country — and , indeed , country beyond NATO , like Australia — routinely make representation to the Pakistani Government , who have be incredibly flexible and supportive in work for we . the challenge — it be sad to have to say this — be that there be many people who claim to have serve in the Triples who may well not have do . if my right hon . friend be to go through the casework file on our system , he would see the same picture submit again and again as evidence by people claim to have work in the Triples . absent those employment record from the Afghan MOIA or the afghan MOD , it be incredibly hard to say who be and who be not legitimate , give that often people be access on social medium stock photograph that they seek to use as evidence . I have every confidence that the Pakistan Government be be incredibly flexible and supportive , but it be very difficult to ask they to allow everybody who claim to have serve in a unit to stay when that be incredibly hard to verify , other than when people in the UK MOD , the US DOD , the Australian Department of Defence or wherever else can personally vouch for the relationship they have with that operator . I be sure the Minister will recognise that it be not only Members of the House , but some of his ex - comrade in arm — even people like my own brother , who serve two tour of duty in Afghanistan — who be deeply concerned about the idea of their former comrade in arm be force back into the hand of the Taliban . to they , it seem to reflect a reality : there be a lack of clarity about why some people be not get access to scheme to access the UK , especially those who flee without paperwork — because , as I be sure we can imagine , the Taliban will not be give ex - special force any passport anytime soon . I wonder whether the Minister answer two specific point . do he recognise the reality that ex - special force from Afghanistan would face if they be give back into the hand of the Taliban ? do he agree that while Pakistan may have the right to do so , it have not always be the good arbiter of relationship with the new regime in Afghanistan and have sometimes go out of its way to undermine a collective approach to they ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s last point , I be reluctant to join he in make that criticism , because , in my experience of deal with the Pakistan Government — of whom I have ask an awful lot , as do the Chief of the General Staff when he recently visit and be host by the Pakistan chief of the army staff — they have be incredibly accommodate ; they have arguably be more accommodate to the UK ' s request than those of other ally and partner . on the hon . Gentleman ' s first question — a deeply uncomfortable one — I do indeed recognise the danger . I recognise the danger face by the kandak that I serve alongside in the upper Helmand valley . I recognise the danger that exist for every other afghan army and air force unit , which be undoubtedly closely relate to ISAF force throughout the campaign . but , for they , none of the resettlement scheme from any of the ISAF country or their partner allow they to come , because they be not set up for those who serve in the wide afghan force . as a veteran of that conflict — someone who live cheek by jowl with a kandak — I can tell he that it make I sick , but that be the reality . to make they all eligible would be to give eligibility to hundred of thousand of servicepeople , and five time that again to bring their dependant . that be simply not an endeavour that the UK can undertake . I know from work with the Minister on Operation Pitting the passion that he bring to this work and the deep debt of gratitude he personally owe to those who fight alongside he . he will appreciate the House ' s concern that we could see someone who fight alongside our force force from Pakistan back to Afghanistan . I take on board his point that the entirety of the special force work with the whole mission , and not just with the UK , so what discussion be he have with our ally about perhaps have a quota for move people over ? that be a clumsy way of put it , but it be the good way I can summarise it . what work be he do with Home Office resource to ensure that there be no backlog in ARAP place , and what be he do with colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that housing be available for those who need to be relocate from Pakistan ? my hon . friend be right to ask whether it be possible for country that have relocation scheme to club together to share the burden of any particular grouping . the difficulty be that , without the employment record , there be no way of know the entirety of those who serve in that grouping . thus , as I say previously , member of the Triples or other unit — the National Directorate of Security , for example — tend to be grant category 4 because there be a member of the UK armed force or UK intelligence community , or veteran , who can personally vouch for the role they play in the conflict . that will be the same for the Australians , the Canadians , the Americans , the Danes and whoever else . it would be impossible to say that an entire taskforce — CF333 or ATF444 — could all come without know the totality of the employment record , because there would be simply no way to determine who do or do not serve with those unit . I thank the Minister for his statement . I have a constituent who be a member of the special force in Afghanistan — I will not name he — and who approach I several month ago about his family stick in Pakistan . the bureaucracy and disconnection between different part of Government be astounding . finally , we have relocate his family to the UK , but it be not an easy process . it take a long time for I to wade through the treacle of the various Government Departments . who be in charge of that ? we have just spend £ 200 million on the Rwanda resettlement scheme . surely , put some money and effort behind the scheme would solve the problem . a number of policy decision and reality around wide immigration in this country have mean that ARAP have move at a variable pace . ultimately , ARAP sit under the MOD and , thus , I . ACRS sit elsewhere . since the Pakistanis make it clear that they would start to deport those without document , we have be able to accelerate movement both from Afghanistan to Pakistan and from Pakistan to the UK . I regret that it come on the back of a number of month of relatively little movement , but we be now move with an urgency that I feel much more comfortable standing in the House and talk about . I have just come off the phone to a friend who live in the mountain and work with the 333 . he explain how the Foreign Office pay they through the Ministry of Interior Affairs , but he and his colleague give they cash to top up their payment — effectively to pay they special force pay . he say that the MOD position be " the most ludicrous argument I have hear in my life . if it be not so sad , it would be hilarious . " the 444 work with every single brigade in Helmand and be describe as an indispensable part of Task Force Helmand , do outreach and reconnaissance . do the Government not need to take a slightly hard look at this ? the Government be look at it very hard indeed . we consider every case on its individual merit . if an individual serve in one of those taskforce or in the National Directorate of Security and be not entitle to come , but there be evidence that they work closely with UK intelligence community , UK special force or our embassy , we be make the case for they to come under category 4 . as I could have say in response to many question , where a colleague feel that they have the evidence need to show direct connection between the individual and the UK , rather than simply their service within a unit , we will consider that evidence on the individual basis that we set out . I be in Afghanistan at the very beginning with the Triples . it be particularly painful that , despite commitment and assurance from the UK Government , this cohort of Afghans and their family be leave fear for their life . I listen carefully to what the Minister have to say , but I have see credible evidence of an individual who serve with the Triples and who be reject for the ARAP scheme by the MOD . he be subsequently arrest by the Taliban , beat and kill . do the Minister know of any Triples who have die under similar circumstance ? if he do , what more can be do to prevent the loss of life of the hero we serve alongside ? the House may think that I be speak relatively plainly in response to these question . undoubtedly , a significant number of people who serve in the afghan national security force , like the person the hon . Gentleman refer to , be in mortal danger as a consequence of have serve in the afghan army , air force or special force . it be also a reality that no country have set up a relocation scheme that extend beyond those who work directly for that country and that verify the service of those people , unless directly alongside the UK special force or UK intelligence community . that be extraordinarily hard . I would like to sit down with the hon . Gentleman , who be a great champion of this cause , to talk through the case that he know of . there be no point pretend that there be not many other . but there be also the reality of how hard it be to verify the service of those who just serve in the unit rather than explicitly alongside UK personnel . give the contrast between the rhetoric and promise of resettlement , and the shambolic reality face many Afghans who work for we , with we or fight alongside our troop , as detail by many member across the House , what assessment have the Minister make of the likely impact of his apparent bad faith on the willingness of foreign national to offer we their assistance in future ? I push back on the idea that this be all some sort of failure . the reality be that we have move out very nearly 14 , 000 people . we have continue to do so against incredible difficulty in Afghanistan and while need to work very carefully alongside the Pakistan Government to meet their requirement , so I do not accept that initial characterisation . as for the hon . Lady ' s wide question about what impact the scheme may have on our ability to work with partner force and locally employ civilian in future , I would turn the question round the other way . my grave concern be that , while I think we be do the right thing by those we serve with and alongside in Afghanistan because of the circumstance of our departure from Afghanistan , if we set the precedent where every time our military work anywhere in the world those who work for we or alongside we in a partner force have an expectation of immigration right in the UK , that will make it incredibly difficult to operate . that be not the question she ask , but I think the counterfactual be equally worth consider . early this year , the Minister say that the backlog for ARAP would be clear by August , and early he say that he be get to the bottom of the pile . exactly how many application be still outstanding ? I apologise to the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , if I say that we would do it by August and we have not . I own my word and thank the right hon . Lady for point out that I have not achieve that . my knowledge be that there be less than a few hundred eligible application that we need to find . there be around 2 , 000 people in Afghanistan who we need to move out and around 1 , 800 leave in Pakistan who we need to bring in . in all , I would expect another 4 , 000 to 4 , 500 arrival . we be aim to that get do as quickly as possible , because the Pakistan Government be keen that we do so without delay . we be work with they to achieve that . I be grateful to the Minister for explain what engagement he have have with representative of Pakistan ' s Government in Islamabad . do the assurance he receive from Islamabad in relation to personnel who will not now be deport to Afghanistan extend to their family ? yes , absolutely . for those who be in Pakistan with an acceptance or eligibility , we have be work with the Pakistan authority through our high commission in Islamabad to make sure that the afghan principal and their family be protect from the work the Pakistan immigration service have under way . if the hon . Gentleman , or indeed other member shake their head knowingly know otherwise , I would be grateful for the name of the people they be concern about and I will make sure that be discuss with the Pakistan high commission without delay . the Minister say that he be process the people who have be accept for ARAP to come to the UK from Pakistan at a pace . since the hotel they be stay in be close down , include in my constituency , how many who be eligible and have be give the paperwork have actually come to the UK ? secondly , where somebody believe they have be wrongly deny ARAP , will he undertake to look at case where there be very clear evidence that a decision may have be make wrongly ? in the last couple of week , I think — off the top of my head — about seven flight , so about 1 , 700 people , have come to the UK . in December , we will move significantly more than in any month since August 2021 , when Operation Pitting happen . those move be a combination of ARAP and acr . the reason we be able to move they at such pace be that we have mobilise quite a significant amount of the MOD training estate to act as transitional accommodation . we be try to move people through as quickly as possible into service family accommodation which we have make available . we be hugely grateful to local authority all over the country for how closely they be work with we to deliver that . while no one doubt that this be a complex situation , the case that we be bring up reflect how it have be manage , and I think that that be what present the challenge . I have two separate constituent who be under the direct supervision of UK force ; indeed , the UK pay for they to be train , so there should be a record in the UK that they be work for the afghan force . the Minister say himself that he feel sick about people who would have work alongside colleague who may now be at risk of harm as a result of be deport back from Pakistan to Afghanistan . will he meet those of we who have constituency case that we believe should meet his threshold for an intervention so that we can establish whether anyone have be miss out , and ensure that we do not miss out people who serve with our colleague for want of a piece of paper ? of course I would like to meet the hon . Lady to discuss those case . give the way she describe they , my instinct suggest that these may have be people who serve in unit that be mentor or partner by the UK armed force ; indeed , my own battalion , on the tour on which it go shortly after I leave , do exactly that with the kandak who be base in Helmand at the time . that do not quite constitute what ARAP be set up to do , but I would love to sit down with the hon . Lady to talk through the detail of the case . if I be right and she be wrong , I should like to explain , and if she be right and I be wrong , we will of course look at the eligibility of those people . I be sure that the Minister will have hear some of the comment from senior former UK military leader who have speak about this issue in the last day or two . it sound as if , somehow , the UK Government have desert these afghan hero who support we through the conflict . can the Minister tell we whether any Afghans await an ARAP decision have be deport from Pakistan to Afghanistan and be now at risk from the Taliban ? I do not have the number , and I be not sure how I would obtain it , but I will inquire within the Department whether I can . if I can , I will write to the hon . Gentleman , and if I can not , I will write to he to say that I can not . to those of we who have serve , the term that the hon . Gentleman use in the first part of his question have a particular meaning . I suspect that he mean it in that way , but that be not what have happen here . the offer that the UK have make in comparison with that of every other country , give our size and the size of our military commitment , be one of the most , if not the most , generous . we have work incredibly hard to bring people out in very difficult circumstance , and it break the heart of all those who have anything to do with operation in Afghanistan — on the military side , in the intelligence community or in a diplomatic context — not to be able to bring everyone here , but that be simply an unrealistic aim . ARAP be set up to be what it be , likewise the acr , and the hon . Gentleman , while disappoint in the Government ' s policy , will need to accept from I that we be work as hard as we can to bring both those scheme to a resolution as quickly as we can . I thank the Minister for the helpful clarity that he have provide today , in particular on the eligibility of member of afghan special force for the ARAP scheme . that have be say , however , I would suggest that whether , and wherever , people be fight alongside UK or other NATO troop in Afghanistan , they be still fight the Taliban . they be still cause they attrition and loss and pressure , on whichever front that might be . I should have think , at the very least , that under the acr , member of special force have assist in stand up for value such as free speech , woman ' s right and the rule of law . give that they have do that , would not discretion be the well part of valour , especially when we be speak about people who potentially fight with great valour ? the Minister have talk about get to the bottom of the list . that be great , but it be not the target ; the target be to get everyone we possibly can back to safety in the UK and free from the clutch of the Taliban . be that still the Minister ' s position ? I think I have answer that question , in different form , over the past half - hour . it be the case , sadly , that not everyone who serve alongside the british force within an afghan unit will be eligible . it be also impossible , I think , to verify the service of those who do not serve directly alongside the british armed force , in circumstance in which there be someone within the british system who can vouch for the closeness of that service . the sad reality be that there be ten of thousand of desperate people in Afghanistan who be wrongly apply to the ARAP scheme out of desperation — the same be happen with the acr — and show evidence that be not real . we have do our absolute good over the last two year to find the people we be look for and to verify the service of those who be not on employment list . our effort in those regard across the UK special force intelligence community and the military have be extensive , but it would be impossible to just say that everyone who have serve in one unit could come , because we would have no way of know who have and who have not . I thank the Minister for respond to urgent question . we be now go to move on to the presentation of Bills , which should at least shorten our winter because we have a number of they . in order to save time and get on with today ' s main business , for member present more than one consecutive Bill , I will accept private notice of the Second Reading date for those Bills . those date will be minute accordingly in Hansard and in the Votes and Proceedings . member present individual Bills will name the date for second Reading as usual . BillS present International Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Fiona Bruce present a Bill to require the Prime Minister to appoint a Special Envoy for International Freedom of Religion or Belief ; to establish an Office of the Special Envoy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 39 ) . child in Hospital for Extended Periods ( Report to Parliament ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Oliver Heald present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of provide financial support for parent of child receive care in hospital for extended period . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 40 ) . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Paul Beresford present a Bill to create an offence of child criminal exploitation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 41 ) . Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Zarah Sultana present a Bill to make provision for an inquiry into the end use of arm sell to foreign state to determine whether they have be use in violation of international law ; to immediately suspend the sale of arm to foreign state where it can not be demonstrate that arm sell will not be use in violation of international law ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 42 ) . Online Services ( Cancellation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Natalie Elphicke present a Bill to provide that , if a service can be subscribe to online , it must be possible to cancel that subscription online ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 43 ) . access to Telecommunications Networks Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to require provider of electronic communication network to grant other such provider access to their apparatus where that be necessary to ensure consistent network coverage ; to prevent those provider from charge more than the standard market rate for such access ; to require the regulator to impose penalty on provider who unreasonably fail to grant such access ; to make provision for the purpose of incentivise provider to allow customer of other provider to use their network where access can not be grant to their apparatus ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 44 ) . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Th é r è se Coffey , support by Sarah Dines , Sir Robert Goodwill , Selaine Saxby , Philip Dunne , Caroline Nokes , Stephen Hammond , Virginia Crosbie , Craig Williams , Alicia Kearns , Kit Malthouse and Robin Millar present a Bill to make provision change the law about the offence of livestock worry , include change to what constitute an offence and increase power for investigation of suspect offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 45 ) . Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Maria Eagle present a Bill to increase the minimum require height of guard in multi - storey car park ; to make provision about the height of guard in exist multi - storey car park ; to require 24 hour staffing of multi - storey car park ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 46 ) . Health and Social Care ( Recruitment and Retention of Staff in Rural Areas ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Jamie Stone present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy for the recruitment and retention of health and social care staff in rural area ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 47 ) . Consular Assistance Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Christine Jardine present a Bill to make provision for a right to consular assistance for british citizen abroad in case where there have be , or where there be a risk of , a breach of human right , denial of access to legal representation , or torture or other human right abuse ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 48 ) . child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mrs Flick Drummond , support by Mr Robin Walker , Ian Mearns , Sir Gavin Williamson and Dr Caroline Johnson present a Bill to make provision about the maintenance of register by local authority of child in their area who be not full - time pupil at any school ; to make provision about support by local authority to promote the education of such child ; to make provision about school attendance order ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 50 ) . bullying and respect at Work Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rachael Maskell , support by Andy McDonald , Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck , John McDonnell , Bell Ribeiro - Addy , Imran Hussain , Caroline Lucas , Andrew Jones , Beth Winter , Rachel Hopkins , Ian Mearns and Yasmin Qureshi , present a Bill to provide for a statutory definition of bully at work ; to make provision relate to bully at work , include to enable claim relate to workplace bully to be consider by an employment tribunal ; to provide for a respect at Work Code to set minimum standard for positive and respectful work environment ; to give power to the Equalities and Human Rights Commission to investigate workplace and organisation where there be evidence of a culture of , or multiple incident of , bully and to take enforcement action ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 52 ) . grocery Code Adjudicator ( Powers and Duties ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Alistair Carmichael present a Bill to make provision about the power and duty of the Groceries Code Adjudicator ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 53 ) . prison Media Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Katherine Fletcher present a Bill to prohibit the creation and uploading of unauthorised medium content relate to prison . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 55 ) . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) James Daly present a Bill to make provision regard pet with microchip ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 56 ) . Puppy Import ( Prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to prohibit the import of young puppy ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 57 ) . worker ( Rights and Definition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to make provision about worker ’ right ; to amend the definition of worker ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 58 ) . court ( Remote Hearings ) Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Andy Carter present a Bill to allow for certain civil and family court hearing to be conduct remotely . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 59 ) . Titles Deprivation Act 1917 Amendment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Bob Seely present a Bill to amend the Titles Deprivation Act 1917 to deprive in certain circumstance prince of their british Dignities and Titles . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 60 ) . support for Infants Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sally - Ann Hart present a Bill to require the provision of information relate to support available for parent and carer of infant for the purpose of support those infant ; to require the Government to publish an annual report on the support available for infant and the impact that that support have have on outcome for infant and child ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 61 ) . Animal Welfare ( Responsibility for Dog Attacks ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Anna Firth present a Bill to amend the Animal Welfare Act 2006 to require a person in charge of a dog to take all reasonable step to ensure that that dog do not fatally injure another dog ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 62 ) . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to review , and publish a report on , the merit of increase the relevant statutory sum under the Vaccine Damage Payments Act 1979 for all claim since 1 January 2020 by an amount represent the amount of inflation since 2007 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 63 ) . School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Vicky Ford present a Bill to make provision require local authority to exercise their function with a view to improve and promote regular attendance by register pupil at school in their area ; and to make provision require school proprietor to have an attendance policy to promote regular attendance . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 64 ) . local Government ( pay accountability ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Paul Bristow present a Bill to make provision about the approval of remuneration pay to local government employee . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 65 ) . Chalk Streams ( Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Green present a Bill to provide for a category of protection for chalk stream for the purpose of provide additional protection from pollution , abstraction and other form of environmental damage ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 66 ) . conservation and sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity ( Ratification of Treaty ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Kevin Foster , support by Dr Th é r è se Coffey , present a Bill to make provision in connection with the ratification by the United Kingdom of the Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Conservation and sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 67 ) . member of Parliament ( Oil and Gas Companies ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Burgon present a Bill to require the Leader of the House of Commons to move a motion prohibit member of Parliament from receive any financial or other benefit from oil and gas company ; to require the Leader of the House to publish proposal for divestment of the Parliamentary Contributory Pension Fund from oil and gas company ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 68 ) . Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Fleur Anderson present a Bill to require landlord in the private rent sector to remedy hazard in lease dwelling ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 69 ) . Zoological Society of London ( Leases ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Bob Blackman , support by Dr Th é r è se Coffey , present a Bill to amend the Crown Estate Act 1961 to increase the maximum term of the lease that may be grant to the Zoological Society of London in respect of land in Regent ' s Park . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 70 ) . Fertility Treatment ( Employment Rights ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Nickie Aiken present a Bill to require employer to allow employee to take time off from work for appointment for fertility treatment ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 71 ) . Water Quality Monitoring Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Foord present a Bill to confer power on and place duty on the Environment Agency in respect of the monitoring of water quality ; to make provision about environmental permit for water discharge activity ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 72 ) . Cancer Research Funding ( Report to Parliament ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Daisy Cooper present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament an annual report on the allocation of research funding into cancer with the low survival rate in the UK , include lung , liver , brain , pancreatic cancer , and certain childhood cancer , include an assessment of the option for increase funding for research with the aim of increase survival rate for those cancer ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 73 ) . Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Layla Moran present a Bill to make provision in connection with the recognition of the State of Palestine . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 74 ) . Social Energy Tariff Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Marion Fellows present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a social tariff for energy . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 77 ) . Telecommunications Infrastructure ( Consultation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dame Diana Johnson , support by Karl Turner and Emma Hardy , present a Bill to make provision about mandatory local consultation in relation to the installation of telecommunication infrastructure in residential area ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 79 ) . carer and Care Workers Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish and implement a Care Workers Employment Strategy , with the aim of improve the recruitment and retention of care worker ; to establish an independent National Care Workers Council with responsibility for set professional standard for care worker , for establish a system of professional qualification and accreditation for care worker , and for advise the Government on those matter ; to require the Secretary of State to commission an independent assessment of the support available to unpaid carer , include financial support and employment right ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 80 ) . bus Services Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Helen Morgan present a Bill to place a duty on the Government to ensure that every town with a population of more than 10 , 000 people have a regular bus service operate seven day a week , and that local health service , include hospital and GP surgery , be serve by those bus ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 81 ) . Veterans ( Non - custodial Sentences ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Owen Thompson present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish annual datum relate to veteran who be give non - custodial sentence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 82 ) . nuclear Veterans ( Compensation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Owen Thompson present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a compensation scheme for veteran who have experience ill health as a result of exposure to radiation while on active service . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 83 ) . Employment Equality ( Insurance etc ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mrs Natalie Elphicke present a Bill to amend Schedule 9 to the Equality Act 2010 to prohibit age discrimination by employer in relation to the provision of insurance or a related financial service ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 84 ) . public Liability ( Compulsory Insurance ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mrs Natalie Elphicke present a Bill to require company and certain other person to insure against their liability for injury to third party and premise ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 85 ) . british Goods ( Public Sector Purchasing Duty ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to place a duty on public body to have a presumption in favour of purchase good of british origin in purchasing decision ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 86 ) . consumer Pricing Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to prohibit the practice of offer preferential pricing to new customer compare to exist customer ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 87 ) . broadcasting ( Listed Sporting Events ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to expand the list of sporting event that must be make available for broadcast by free - to - air television channel ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 88 ) . employment ( Application Requirements ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to regulate the use of minimum qualification or experience requirement in job application ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 89 ) . public Sector Website Impersonation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to create the offence of impersonate a public sector website for the purpose of collect payment or personal datum ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 90 ) . armenian Genocide ( Recognition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to require his Majesty ' s Government to formally recognise the armenian genocide of 1915 - 16 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 91 ) . House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ( Abolition of by - Elections ) ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) John Spellar present a Bill to amend the House of Lords Act 1999 so as to abolish the system of by - election for hereditary peer . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 92 ) . food Poverty Strategy Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy for end the need for food bank by 2030 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 93 ) . deduction from Universal Credit ( Report ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the impact of deduction from Universal Credit on level of destitution among claimant . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 94 ) . corporate Homicide Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to amend the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007 to make provision about the offence of corporate homicide ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 95 ) . Asylum seeker ( Accommodation Eviction Procedures ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to make provision for asylum seeker to challenge the proportionality of a propose eviction from accommodation before an independent court or tribunal ; to establish asylum seeker accommodation eviction procedure for public authority ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 96 ) . Health and Safety at Work Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to amend the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 to make provision about civil liability for breach of health and safety duty , and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 97 ) . Benefit Sanctions ( Warnings ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to make provision for warning to be give to benefit claimant before they be give sanction ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 May 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 98 ) . Housing Standards ( Refugees and Asylum Seekers ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to make provision for national minimum standard in accommodation offer to refugee and asylum seeker ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 99 ) . disability Benefit Assessments ( Recording ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to ensure that applicant for Disability Benefit be give the option of their eligibility assessment be audio record ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 100 ) . full Employment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to place a duty on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to pursue a policy of full employment ; to make associated provision for an employment guarantee scheme for benefit claimant who have be unemployed and look for work for long than six month ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 101 ) . Universal Credit Sanctions ( Zero Hours Contracts ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to amend the Welfare Reform Act 2012 to provide that a Universal Credit claimant may not be sanction for refuse work on a zero hour contract ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 102 ) . Social Security Benefits ( Healthy Eating ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish annual calculation of benefit and tax credit rate that would be require for a representative household to afford to buy meal in accordance with the Eatwell Guide to eat healthily ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 103 ) . devolution ( Employment ) ( Scotland ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to grant legislative competence for employment matter to the Scottish Parliament . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 104 ) . parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ( Powers ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to grant power to the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman to identify and investigate systemic problem in the benefit system and make associated recommendation to the Secretary of State ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 22 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 105 ) . under - Occupancy Penalty ( Report ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of repeal those provision of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 which provide for person to be pay reduce rate of housing benefit or universal credit because their accommodation be deem to be under - occupy . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 106 ) . eviction ( Universal Credit ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to prevent the eviction of Universal Credit claimant in rent arrear ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 1 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 107 ) . Asylum Seekers ( Permission to work ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Chris Stephens present a Bill to make provision for grant permission to work to asylum seeker who have wait six month for a decision on their asylum application ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 108 ) . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to amend section 58 of the Highways Act 1980 to restrict the defence available to highway authority ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 109 ) . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to make provision about financial assistance to person who have suffer disablement follow vaccination against Covid - 19 and to the next of kin of person who have die shortly after vaccination against Covid - 19 ; to require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of a no - fault compensation scheme to provide such financial assistance , on whether there should be any upper limit on the financial assistance available , on the criterion for eligibility and on whether payment should be make in all case where there be no other reasonable cause for the death or disablement suffer ; to provide for a special time limit under the Limitation Act 1980 for action in respect of personal injury or death follow a Covid - 19 vaccination ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 110 ) . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to provide that a draft statutory instrument which be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure may be amend by either House before it be approve ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 111 ) . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to provide that , before make any order to designate a type of dog for the purpose of section 1 or 2 of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 , the Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation and publish a comparative review of datum show the incidence of fatality result from bite of dog of that type in the last three year . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 112 ) . dangerous Dogs ( Licensing ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to provide for an exemption from the provision of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 relate to dog breed for fighting and other specially dangerous dog for person who hold a licence ; to make provision relate to such licence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 113 ) . arm ' s - length body ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to make provision for Arm ' s - Length Bodies to be directly accountable to Parliament . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 114 ) . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to exempt from Value Added Tax good or service which be beneficial to the environment , to health and safety , to education or for charitable purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 115 ) . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to amend the Mobile Homes Act 1983 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 116 ) . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to create an offence of disclose the identity of a person who be the subject of an investigation in respect of the alleged commission of an offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 117 ) . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to establish an independent review of disablement cause by Covid - 19 vaccination and the adequacy of the compensation offer to person so disabled ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 118 ) . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to place a duty on the Secretary of State to improve the diagnosis and treatment of person who have suffer or continue to suffer ill effect from Covid - 19 vaccine ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 119 ) . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to exempt from vat supply of electricity , oil and gas for domestic purpose ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 120 ) . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to amend the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 to make provision about parliamentary scrutiny of regulation make under that Act ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 121 ) . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to exempt motor home from caravan site licensing requirement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 122 ) . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to make provision about arrange alternative non - NHS England treatment for patient who have wait for more than one year for hospital treatment ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 123 ) . british Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to make provision for the privatisation of the British Broadcasting Corporation ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 124 ) . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to extend the definition of child ' s clothing for the purpose of exemption from vat ; to extend the vat exemption to further category of school uniform ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 125 ) . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to de - criminalise the non - payment of the BBC licence fee by person age over seventy - five ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 126 ) . regulatory Impact assessment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to require a Regulatory Impact Assessment to be publish for all primary and secondary legislation introduce by the Government ; to make provision for associated sanction ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 127 ) . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to report to Parliament on proposal to replace the Barnett Formula use to calculate adjustment to public expenditure allocate to Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland with a statutory scheme for the allocation of resource base on an assessment of relative need ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 128 ) . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to require public authority to exercise their statutory power to investigate and take enforcement action for breach of the law ; to make provision for sanction for fail to take such action ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 129 ) . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to create offence in respect of person who have enter the UK illegally or who have remain in the UK without legal authority ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 130 ) . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to make provision for co - funding and for the extension of co - payment for NHS service in England ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 131 ) . Caravan Sites Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to amend the requirement for caravan site licence application make under the Caravan Sites and Control of Development Act 1960 ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 132 ) . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to limit exit payment make by some public sector organisation to employee ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 133 ) . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sir Christopher Chope , support by Sir Edward Leigh , present a Bill to establish a national register of Green Belt land in England ; to restrict the ability of local authority to de - designate Green Belt land ; to make provision about future development of de - designate Green Belt land ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 23 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 134 ) . secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Dr Caroline Johnson present a Bill to make provision about the notice period for termination of funding agreement for secure 16 to 19 Academies ; to make provision about the Secretary of State ' s duty to consider the impact on exist educational institution when it be propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy ; and to alter the consultation question require when it be propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 135 ) . Affordable Housing ( Conversion of Commercial Property ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Vicky Ford present a Bill to make provision to enable local authority to establish planning obligation relate to affordable housing in respect of the conversion of commercial property to residential use ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 2 February 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 136 ) . we have a lot to look forward to on Fridays next year . I look forward to see you all . [ interruption . ] well , some of you . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . before proceed to the heart of the Bill , may I offer a few word of thank to those who have labour long in this field ? we all know that leasehold and freehold legislation have preoccupy the House not just in this Parliament , but in many Parliaments in the past . indeed , in the 1860 , 1870 and 1880 , much of the House ' s time be take up debate the fine point of such legislation . I be once describe as a young man in a hurry . I be now an old man , but I be still in a hurry , in order to make sure that this legislation make progress and that we liberate leaseholder from many of the unfair practice to which they be still subject . I will say a bit more about that in a second , but I want first to say a special word of thank to my predecessor as Secretary of State , who help to issue the consultation and lie the groundwork for the measure that we be introduce today . I thank my right hon . friend the Members for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) , but in particular I thank the late James Brokenshire , who do so much work to get we to this point . have thank they , I can not but thank my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be a brilliant colleague in the Department and do so much of the heavy lifting to ensure that this legislation be ready to be introduce . she have be a brilliant colleague and a great Minister in so many way . all the good thing in the Bill be down to she ; anything that be lack be down to I . I also thank member of the all - party parliamentary group on leasehold and commonhold reform , who have work so hard for so long to ensure that the ground could be lay for today ' s legislation . I thank the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) for his work and , in particular , his predecessor , the former MP for Poplar and Limehouse , Jim Fitzpatrick . I must thank the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , who have be the single most consistent and brave voice in stand up for leaseholder . I also thank — even though she be not in the Chamber — the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , who speak on behalf of the Liberal Democrats and have contribute to the work of the APPG . the APPG would not have be able to do its work without the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership . in particular , I thank Martin Boyd , who have be hire by the Government to head up our Leasehold Advisory Service , and sebastian o ' Kelly . both have contribute to help leaseholder and provide they with the advice and counsel they need to navigate this tangled landscape . I also thank the campaigner , some of whom I have a chance to talk to early , who have be indefatigable in make it clear that the law need to change . I thank , in particular , Katie Kendrick , Cath Williams and Joanne Darbyshire , all of whom have make an impeccable case for change throughout . what be the problem that we be try to solve ? basically , it be this : leasehold as a form of tenure be essentially a deal where someone be invite to buy a home and then , instead of become a full homeowner , they be treat , or can be treat , as a tenant . it be a fundamentally unfair system and a fundamentally inequitable tenure , because those who buy flat and — increasingly , in recent year — house , in good faith , pay market rate , assume and hope that they would be homeowner in the full sense of the word , have find that , rather than be homeowner , they be at the whim of the ultimate owner of the freehold , who be in effect their landlord . in the past , there be justification . there be case and example where those who hold the freehold operate in an enlightened and paternalistic way . for example , the freehold of property be sometimes hold by trade union or other enlightened organisation that would ensure that the common interest of all those within a particular building be look after . it be still the case that some landowner and freeholder take their obligation towards leaseholder seriously , ensure that the service charge be levy in an appropriate way , keep the ground rent at an appropriately low level , and ensure that the building be maintain in a good state of repair . however , individual leaseholder should not simply have to rely on the good will and good character of whoever the freeholder be ; they need well protection in law , which be what we seek to achieve with the Bill . many of the leasehold home in Rother Valley be build by the National Coal Board to provide home for miner and their family , with the intention that the ground rent would be peppercorn , but since the closure of the pit many of those freehold , especially in area such as Thurcroft , Wales and North Anston , have be sell to private developer who be take advantage of their leaseholder . for example , in Thurcroft , leaseholder be force to represent themselves in court when the freeholder try to raise the ground rent from £ 10 a year to £ 2 , 500 a year , which be absolutely shameful . how can we ensure that freeholder must act reasonably , and not stray too far from the spirit of the original legislation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the miner ' family and their descendant , whom he represent so well , be originally in home that the NCB establish to ensure that those in the pit village he represent would have a proper landlord , provide stewardship , care and support , but as he rightly point out , the freehold ownership have subsequently be use not as an obligation towards the leaseholder but as a commodity to be trade . More and more freehold be in the hand of entity , often base offshore , that regard they as a licence to extort from the leaseholder , rather than as an obligation to be discharge . I have raise concern on behalf of leaseholder in my constituency on many occasion in this House — particularly on the issue of service charge , which the Secretary of State refer to a moment ago , and the lack of transparency around they . I have see again and again case where certain information be not provide to leaseholder , where they be not sure that the money be be spend on what they have provide funding for , or where it be not clear whether , for example , there have be an adequate tendering process for work , insurance and so on . can he explain what will be do on that , and whether it will fully extend to England and Wales ? what co - operation have he have with the Welsh Government about those provision ? it be the case that this Bill cover England and Wales . obviously the hon . Gentleman be aware that there be slightly different tribunal that operate in each jurisdiction , but it will precisely address the situation he mention : it will ensure there be transparency over service charge and , through the appropriate tribunal in each jurisdiction it will become easy on the part of the leaseholder to contest any unfairness . rise — I just want to make one or two additional point and then I be happy to give way . personally , one of the moment where I realise that the system , which be hard to defend in any case , be fundamentally break be in the aftermath of the Grenfell tragedy . we know then that it be important that responsibility be take for remediate building that be unsafe . we know then that individual and organisation have to take that responsibility on their own shoulder . we know then that freeholder , if they be true to the spirit of the original legislation , would say , " yes , we have a responsibility for this building and for all those within it . we have a responsibility to make sure this building be safe . therefore , we should have a responsibility to pay for the remediation . " but do we find freeholder queue up to do that ? absolutely not . they be there ready to extract income at the high possible rate whenever they could , through ground rent and service charge , but when they be call upon to discharge their responsibility to the leaseholder within those flat , they be absent . they run away from their responsibility . that be why I have limit to no patience now with the well - fund lobby group that stand up for those freeholder and seek to ensure that they can continue to extract money from leaseholder . it seem to I that , at a critical point , the argument that be sometimes make on behalf of those people disappear because of their negligence and their moral fault . the right hon . Gentleman say that traditionally it be flat that be leasehold , but increasingly it be house , mainly fuel by the Government ' s help to buy scheme . in my constituency , Persimmon Homes ' s business model be structure around not only sell on the leasehold , but the tactic of include area of the estate that traditionally would have be pass over to local authority as the responsibility of the leaseholder . would he agree that the Government need to take some responsibility for the tsunami of money they throw at some of those developer , and for turn a blind eye to what they be do in their business model ? I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , but he be conflate two thing . help to buy can be criticise or defend on its own term , and I believe it be the right intervention to ensure , in particular , that more first - time buyer could get on to the property market . however , he be also right that leasehold , which as he say be originally a tenure design for flat , be then extend to house , and in a way that be difficult to defend . it have expand over recent year . that be why we be legislate now to ensure that we can stop it . there be two separate argument that can be have there . I particularly look forward to that part of the Secretary of State ' s speech when he will tell we whether this will apply to new leasehold or will be retrospective on those suffer under exist leasehold arrangement . however , there be one step the Government take that have not be helpful to leaseholder , and of which I have personal experience : create a presumption in favour of development where the airspace above a block of flat be sell and the freeholder then insist on have one or two more floor build on top . that can cause immense damage to the building , not to mention disruption , and then who get the bill for pay for the damage ? it be transfer from the freeholder to the leaseholder . the Government should think again about that presumption in allow that sort of ill - consider development . my right hon . friend make an important point on permit development right . on the whole , I be in favour of the extension of permit development right , because I want to see an increase in housing supply overall , but it be incumbent on the Government to review how those right have be operate . he raise one concern , but there be other legitimate concern about the way permit development right , when commercial building have be turn into residential , have mean that the quality of those new residential flat have be insufficiently high . I also know that colleague , not least in London , be concerned about potential future extension of permit development right . there be a responsibility on I and other to review their impact , and that be what we be do , separate from this particular legislation . rise — an embarrassment of rich ! I will give way to all colleague currently stand , and then I will try to make progress . I represent an area with a lot of leasehold house . it be just a cynical money - make scam . some people own a house but be require to pay an admin charge to change the flooring or have a pet , so it do not feel as if they own it . I can understand the floor thing if they be in flat , but not if they be in house . it be just a con . I couldn ' t agree more . one of the challenge here be the lack of voice for our constituent in try to address the problem . the Secretary of State say that he can not defend leasehold . none of we can . it be a feudal process that still deny our constituent a voice over the thing that be most precious to they : their home . if he agree with that , why will he not agree with we that we should move forward to commonhold , whereby everybody have a voice and a say in their own building ? I actually agree that commonhold be the ideal form of tenure , but there be certain technical question about when commonhold can apply , not least if a building also have commercial use on the low floor . when we come to clause 27 , will the Secretary of State clarify whether " good value " apply to leaseholder or to freeholder ? it certainly seem that leaseholder do not get good value when test what additionalitie and enhancement be put into their scheme . that be certainly true and I quite agree . the Secretary of State be talk about leasehold house . I be recently visit by a group of resident from Hampton Wick in my constituency who have be collectively try to buy the freehold on their house . they have a very obstructive freeholder and be now resort to an enfranchisement notice under section 5 of the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 , but that require a valuation from 1965 , for which there be no record available , so they be now be obstruct in buy the freehold by that legislative basis . when the Bill introduce a new methodology for calculate the value of enfranchisement , will that old provision be get rid of ? I believe that it should be , and I encourage the hon . Lady ' s constituent — as I be sure she have do — to be in touch with Martin Boyd ' s Leasehold Advisory Service to be absolutely clear that they be get the support they need . it be a little disappointing that the Secretary of State do not refer to the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee ' s report of 2019 . the Government , work with the APPG , have follow many of the report ' s recommendation , but some of those recommendation — we will come to they later , with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker — have not be include , so I will make just a couple of point . the real challenge be , first , that freeholder who will not comply with any legislation , or will try to avoid it , do not reply to letter . I have exchange information with the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety on how to deal with Coppen Estates and what the penalty will be for non - compliance . secondly , there be freeholder who seek to move the ownership of a property around in order to avoid the legislation . why not give exist leaseholder the right of first refusal before any freehold be sell ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman and his Committee for all their work — it be discourteous of I , when run through the name of those to whom I be grateful , not to mention they . his broad point , about not just the operation of the freehold system but the way in which different aspect of the property market work , be a fair one . the use of opaque overseas entity and special purpose vehicle — the way in which ultimate beneficial ownership can be hide — be all problem that require to be address . the Bill be pretty lengthy and substantial , and deal with many of the issue — I will go on to explain why we have take the approach that we have — but there be other abuse within the property and land market system that require to be address , which we will address , and not just in this Parliament but after we be return at the next general election . I thank my right hon . friend for give way , and for the pragmatic approach that the Government have take in this very complex area . in my constituency of Dover and Deal , we have a fail development — sunningdale home — and a long - stand problem with Persimmon Homes in relation to Sholden . both situation relate to the lack of adoption by local authority , and to service charge and other management arrangement . I would be grateful if my right hon . friend could say more about the way in which those sort of situation will be help , and whether there will be any retrospective help for situation that have remain unresolved for many year . I be very grateful to my hon . friend . she and my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) have be particularly energetic in press I to deal with this issue of leasehold home — fleecehold estate , as they have become widely know — which be , I believe , precisely the phenomenon that the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) be also refer to . the Bill will ensure that there be a ban on new leasehold home , but as well as avert that problem in the future , we be attempt to deal with the difficult situation we have all inherit . we will do so by make sure that we squeeze every possible income stream that freeholder currently use , so that in effect , their capacity to put the squeeze on leaseholder end . that will mean the effective destruction of the leasehold system . do not take my word for it : as sebastian o ' Kelly of the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership have make clear in his writing , " the Bill be a full - on assault on leasehold ' s income stream " . first , we have a consultation on ground rent . I can not pre - empt that consultation , but at its conclusion , we will legislate on the basis of that set of response in order to ensure that ground rent be reduce , and can only be levy in a justifiable way . as I say , I can not pre - empt the consultation , but in a way I already have , because I be ask by the Select Committee last week what my favour approach would be , and I believe that it should be a peppercorn . of course , if compelling evidence be produce , as a Secretary of State with great civil servant , I will look at it , but my preference be clear , and I suspect that it be the preference of the House as well . indeed , it be important to say that that particular squeezing of the freeholder ' s income stream go beyond what the Law Commission recommend . we be really grateful for all of the Law Commission ' s work , but it be a little bit cautious in this area ; we be deliberately say no . I know that some people will say , " what about A1P1 right under the european convention on human right ? you be take property away from people . " I respect the echr , but if it stand in the way of I defend the interest of people in this country who have be exploit by ground - rent massaging , I be determined to legislate on behalf of those people , because their interest matter more than that particular piece of legislation . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for the way he be address this issue . can I draw his attention to a particular variant of this practice that exist in my constituency ? between a developer and a local authority , a scheme be allow whereby resident be — and continue to be — charge for access to public open space on their estate and , indeed , to maintain a neighbouring park that resident across the district can enjoy . that be surely wrong , and I hope he will look into that matter . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : a number of the people who have build , operate and retain the freehold on these estate levy service charge for all sort of thing that , in my view , be totally inappropriate . that be why the Bill make clear that service charge have to be issue in a standardise format , so that they can be more easily scrutinise and challenge . it also make clear that those charge can be challenge in such a way as to ensure that egregious example , such as the one the hon . Gentleman have mention , will end . I be not against what the Secretary of State be try to do , but philosophically there be a reason why the conservative party have be the defender of property right . it be to do with freedom and establish right , so it be nothing to do with the echr or anything like that . before this debate become just about bash landlord , what about the Duchy of Cornwall ? there be excellent freeholder that have traditionally maintain property and do wonderful work in ensure that property be well maintain and in look after their tenant . I quite agree with my right hon . friend . there be good landlord , and the Duchy of Cornwall have be a stand - out example , as have be the Cadogan estate , the Howard de Walden estate and so on — they be responsible landlord , absolutely — but an individual leaseholder should not have to rely on the good will and the grace of his grace , as it be , to get the protection they need . there be no stauncher defender of capitalism and property right than I , but what have happen be that freehold have become utterly tear away from the warp and weft of the capitalist system as we understand it in this country , and have become tradeable commodity that foreign entity be use to exploit our people who have work hard and save to get their own home . so whose side be I on — homeowner who have work hard and save up to secure a mortgage , or shadowy foreign entity that be essentially attempt to rip off british citizen ? I be on the side of homeowner . when the Secretary of State be consider the evidence from the consultation he mention , will he adhere to his own adage of " follow the money " , and remember that those people advocate for a high ground rent probably have a motivation for do so ? my hon . friend be completely right . I will be look at the response to the consultation , and I be sure that some of London ' s fine legal firm and most eloquent solicitor will be put in some very thoughtful contribution , but the question will be : who be pay for they and how much be they be pay ? to my mind , people can buy silver - tongue eloquence , but what be far more important be actually be on the right side of justice . will the Secretary of State give way ? I believe that most of the people in the House be on the right side of justice , especially the hon . Lady . on ground rent , share owner who have staircase their way up to 100 % and become leaseholder obviously have a long lease of 999 year , but face the issue of have their ground rent double every , say , 20 year . clearly , that be an unfairness in the system , so will the Secretary of State ' s consultation address that point ? I believe it will . I must now make progress because I know a number of people want to contribute , so I will try to run through the other argument about why we be take the approach that we be . I mention service charge , and one other example , to which the Father of the House have of course persistently draw our attention , of where those who have be manage property on behalf of the ultimate owner have abuse their position be that of insurance commission . we will be take step in the Bill to make sure that insurance charge be transparent and that fair handling fee be bring in . the fact that I can list all these example just show hon . member the way in which freeholder have operate . many who have get hold of such freehold have be think , " right , okay , we can jack up the ground rent , great ! we can have service charge , keep they opaque and add something . tell you what — insurance ; let ' s try to get more out of that . " it be a persistent pattern of behaviour that do require reform . another pattern of behaviour be the way that lease extension and the whole question of enfranchisement have be go . if someone ' s lease go below 80 year and they want to enfranchise themselves , they have to pay what be call marriage value . that be the principle that , by bring together the ownership of the freehold and the leasehold in one by enfranchise themselves — bring those two together in a marriage — people be enrich themselves . again , however , it have be use by freeholder to bilk leaseholder overall , which be why the approach we be take will in effect eliminate marriage value . it be also why , when we talk about lease extension , instead of people have to extend and extend again generation after generation , we be say that lease can be extend to 990 year . in effect , as I say , this will make sure that one of the approach that freeholder have take to extract more cash from leaseholder will end . I agree with the Secretary of State about the seriousness of the problem of excessive insurance premium be charge to leaseholder , and I will give an example if I be able to contribute later . do the Secretary of State agree that the solution require risk - pool among insurer ? the initiative on that seem to have stall ; can he hold out the prospect of the delay be resolve ? broadly on the whole question of insurance , I be due to meet the chair , Baroness Morgan of Cotes , and the chief executive of the Association of British Insurers later this week to address not just that question but some other relate question . will the Secretary of State give way ? I win ' t at this stage . I freely admit that this Bill do not go as far as some in the House and elsewhere would like . strong argument have be make about how property agent can be well regulate and Lord Best in another place have make argument that I find incredibly persuasive — so why not legislate for they now ? well , as I mention early , this Bill have many clause , deal with technical aspect of property law , require close scrutiny and be likely to face a lobby exercise from deep - pocket interest outside attempt to derail it . legislate to give effect to Lord Best ' s proposal and to set up a new regulator — I be always a wee bit wary about set up new quango but on this occasion he make a good case — would require significant additional legislative time of a kind we simply do not have in the lifetime of this Parliament . there be change we be make overall in order to deal with some of the abuse for which manage agent be responsible , but there be still some unfinished business . I happily grant that , and there be organisation like FirstPort , which many of we will be familiar with from our work as constituency MPs , that require some gentle direction towards behave in a well fashion . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) and Ministers for bring the Bill forward . the Secretary of State speak about leasehold improvement and improve the right of leaseholder , but he will be aware that part 4 of the Bill look to protect and improve the right of family who hold the freehold of their property against the estate management charge about which he be speak ; the Bill do a lot to meet some of the request of many of my conservative colleague on this matter . one issue that be not address in the Bill , however , be the right to manage . in the 2019 response to the 2017 consultation , the Government say they would look at that and introduce legislation . what be the current Government think on give people the right to manage , and therefore to take back control from the estate management company ? my hon . friend make a good point . I be go to say there be two other area in particular that we should look at in Committee : the right to manage ; and the abuse of forfeiture , which be sometimes use by freeholder to intimidate leaseholder . I be very open to improve the Bill in Committee ; we will be improve it ourselves by bring forward the legislation that will ban new leasehold home in the future , so I hope we will have a chance to do that . I mention early that we have be debate leasehold and freehold in this place for a long time . in the preparation of this Bill , one of the brilliant civil servant in the Department draw to my attention comment make by Harry Levy - Lawson , 1st Viscount Burnham and MP for St Pancras , as it happen , when the Leasehold Enfranchisement Bill 1889 be bring forward by another great reform conservative Government under the Marquess of Salisbury . hear , hear ! exactly : the Minister be , like I , a great fan of the Marquess . in that debate the open remark of the Minister be : " we do not claim for this Bill any perfection of draftsmanship , but it be so far complete that if it pass through Parliament , we believe it would be smooth , just and reliable in its working . the principle , however , be now exactly what it have always be , viz . , the grant to urban leaseholder , with a substantial interest in their holding , of the power to purchase the fee simple " — the ownership — " on fair and equitable term . " — [ Official Report , 1 May 1889 ; Vol . 335 , c . 889 . ] this Bill do so much more . be it perfect ? no , I would not claim for this Bill any perfection of draftsmanship . be it substantive — do it move the dial , do it change the business model , will it effectively mean that leasehold will become a thing of the past ? I believe absolutely it will , and I be fortify in that belief by the strong support for this legislation show by leasehold campaigner . I commend the Bill to the House . it be a pleasure to open this debate on behalf of the Opposition . let I say at the outset that we do not intend to oppose the Bill today . simply , it be well late than never . may I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s comment at the start of the debate , because many people have contribute and campaign on this issue over the year that it have be speak about ? many have long need this overdue Bill , and they need it to be improve . leaseholder across the country have be wait for year — six year , to be exact — to see the Government ' s flagship Bill to end leasehold and to break free the million of people trap in what the Secretary of State himself describe as a feudal and absurd system of home ownership . if this be the Secretary of State go in a hurry , I would hate to see his normal pace . it be back in 2017 that his fifth predecessor as Housing Secretary pledge action . he talk a good talk today , and he be theatrical . I love the passion — it be really there — and I love the " squeeze " . we want to see the squeeze , but frankly I have lose count of the number of time Ministers have promise to finally put Britain in line with other develop country across the world that have all end this medieval system . to be fair to the Secretary of State , none of they have say it be an assault on leasehold and a squeeze on income , so he be go a little bit far , but after all that time and all those promise and after that theatrical squeeze , we still have a Bill that do not actually abolish leasehold . I suppose that that be no surprise , as it come alongside a Bill that pledge to ban section 21 no - fault eviction that do not ban no - fault eviction and a Bill to stop the small boat that do not stop the small boat . it be all well and good for the Secretary of State to say that the Government plan to amend the Bill in the usual way , but be it too much to ask for the Government to include a clause that ban leasehold in a Bill whose stated purpose be to ban leasehold ? why make those promise , only to produce a Bill that do no such thing ? in a word , it sound like chaos . even the day before it be publish , the Department ' s press release say that the Bill would ban developer from sell new house under leasehold . give the tiny proportion of leasehold that be house , rather than flat , it be hardly an ambitious pledge , but the Bill do not even introduce that ban . do my right hon . friend agree with what I say to the Secretary of State ? the Government could have stop this , if they have not do the help to buy scheme , which fuel this practice among large developer . they could have stop it in its track , if they have stop the finance to those company . do she also agree that expectation have be raise among a lot of the leaseholder who be put into the trap of their house be leasehold ? they think they be go to get out of that trap , when actually they be not . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . the Government have be in government for 13 year . we have have six year of these promise , and he be absolutely right that there be more than one way that the Government could have ensure that leaseholder be not treat in this way . the botched drafting of the Bill mean we be still wait to see a single clause that prohibit a single new leasehold property , whether it be a flat or a house . it be on 30 January this year that the Secretary of State promise my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , " we will maintain our commitment to abolish the feudal system of leasehold . we absolutely will . we will bring forward legislation shortly . " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2023 ; Vol . 727 , c . 49 . ] in February , he say he aim in the forthcoming king ' s Speech " to introduce legislation to fundamentally reform the system … to end this feudal form of tenure " . — [ Official Report , 20 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 3 . ] in May , the then Housing Minister tell this House that " my Department be work flat out " — [ Official Report , 23 May 2023 ; Vol . 733 , c . 214 . ] on the legislation . if it have take they this long with not a word to show for it , can they guarantee that they will put their amendment to the House by 30 January next year — a full 12 month after the Secretary of State ' s promise at the Dispatch Box ? we have hear the Secretary of State say that it be perfectly normal to bring forward vast swathe of amendment in Committee — believe I , the Committee will be do some considerable heavy lifting . have shadow he through the final stage of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , I would say that perhaps he do think that make endless last - minute amendment to his own Bills be a normal way of legislating , but the anonymous source close to the Secretary of State may have let the cat out of the bag about the real reason the Bill be so empty when they brief the press last month . we know from they what he can not admit today : the Prime Minister be block this Bill from the King ' s Speech in the face of lobby from vested interest oppose the reform . in the chaos of this Government , it be add only at the very last minute . we may have hear many warm word , and the Secretary of State be very theatrical about his ambition for reform , but he be stick in the daily Tory doom loop in which vested interest always come before the national interest . the truth be that the time waste and backtrack all go back to the Prime Minister ' s desperate attempt to extend the lease on no . 10 Downing Street . the fact be that even if the Government belatedly fix their leasehold house loophole , flat owner will be leave out of the picture , yet 70 % of all leasehold property be flat and there be over 600 , 000 more owner - occupy leasehold flat than house in England . have listen to the Secretary of State , those owner will still be wonder just when the Government will fulfil their pledge to they . as I be sure everyone in the House will agree , property law be , by nature , extremely complex , but we can not and must not lose sight of the daily impact that these law have on the life of million across our country , include over 5 million owner of leasehold property in England and Wales . I be sure that most of we in the House know what that mean in human term for our constituent . for most freehold homeowner , ownership mean security and control , yet for far too many leaseholder , the reality of home ownership fall woefully short of the dream they be promise . too many leaseholder face constant struggle with punitive and ever rise ground rent — rent for a home that they actually own , in exchange for which the freeholder need to do nothing at all . leaseholder be lock into expensive agreement and face unjustified administration fee and extortionate charge . condition be impose with little or no consultation . for leaseholder also affect by the building safety crisis , the situation be even bad . the right hon . Lady have make it clear from the Dispatch Box that she oppose excessive ground rent . can she explain why the Labour leader make it clear at the Labour party conference that he would get new house build by create " attractive investment product " that have residential ground rent at their heart ? how can it possibly be the case that she intend to deal with excessive ground rent , when the leader of the Labour party want to fund new development by pursue precisely that policy ? which be it : against they or for they ? I thank the Secretary of State , but he have just use the word " excessive " . if he want to let I deal with this problem , I be happy to take over and show that I be not just about theatrical performance at the Dispatch Box ; I will actually deal with it . he have be give 13 year on the Government Benches and have fail to do that . this Bill still fail to do that , so I would like to see where he will deal with this issue . regulation of freeholder have fall behind that of landlord , leave leaseholder strip of the right enjoy even by tenant in the private rent sector . perhaps the Secretary of State can tell we what measure exist that prevent the bad actor in the market from repeatedly rip off leaseholder in one place after another . my right hon . friend be make a strong speech , and she accurately describe the mental and financial anguish that have be feel by many leaseholder in my constituency . she be absolutely right . in my constituency , this issue predominantly affect those in flat , not in leasehold house , and what they have go through with service charge and fire and building safety remediation have take a toll on many of they . they have find themselves in despair . do she agree that much more need to be do to deal with manage agent on the transparency of service fee ? it be good to hear the Secretary of State mention FirstPort , and I hope to meet it soon , but do she agree that this be a much wide problem that need to be address ? I absolutely agree . as I say before , and as I think the Secretary of State acknowledge , there be a lot of work to be do in Committee on these issue . hopefully , we will be able to help the Secretary of State improve his own Bill , which need significant improvement . I suspect that my right hon . friend will welcome the strengthening of the regulation of management company in the Bill , but we need to go far . just last Friday , I have some heartbreaking conversation with resident on the Froghall Fields estate in Flitwick — a lovely part of the world with which I be sure many member will be familiar from the by - election — who have be leave brutally expose to successive fail management company by ongoing adoption conversation with the council that be drag on and on . do my right hon . friend agree that there be more we can do to strengthen the propose regulation in this area , to ensure that my long - suffer resident finally get the redress and resolution they deserve ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I be so pleased about the work he have be do since he be elect to this place and the way in which he have be a real champion of his constituent , which they do not feel they have previously . he make a really important point , and he be right to point out the huge problem of estate agent charge and fee . the step the Government be take to address the issue be welcome , of course , but we absolutely believe there be room to improve the measure in the Bill . the shadow Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , will look to do so in Committee . follow on from that point , when the Select Committee look at this issue — it be a real problem — we say that whenever a property be sell , the purchaser or leaseholder , and in some case the freeholder , should have a right at the beginning to see precisely what the agreement be between the local authority and the developer about where responsibility for ongoing maintenance of the estate and so forth rest . many purchaser simply do not know who to go to and who be responsible . it would be helpful if that be set out very clearly at the beginning of the purchase . I absolutely agree , and I congratulate my hon . friend on his fabulous work in this area . transparency be incredibly important because it be the first step towards get accountability . we speak before about pet — we all love our pet — and the Secretary of State have rightly protect the reasonable right of tenant to keep pet , yet it be not clear whether he intend to extend that right to leaseholder . I have see lease that contain an outright ban , so I hope he ensure that the Bill reflect that . it be just one example of the restriction that term in lease increasingly impose , but I could cite many more — for example , basic modification or decoration to flat , or the right to conduct business from home . I know that some Government Members may not be keen on work from home , but it be quite another thing to say that someone could lose their home over it . they might be more sympathetic if I point out the impact on the self - employ , who be often ban from run their own business from their own home . there be basic principle at stake for the Opposition , and I hope the whole House can agree that people ' s right to bring up a family , to care for a love family pet , to own and run their own business , and to pay a fair price and receive what they have pay for be basic british right and value . the incredible thing be that they be be deny to people in their very own home — home that they own . that be surely at the heart of today ' s debate , because for leaseholder , their flat or house be not an investment ; it be their home — a place to live , to grow up , to grow old , to raise a family , to get on in life and to be part of a community . a home be more than brick and mortar ; it be about security and have power over your own life . as a leaseholder , someone may have ownership but not control . the dream of home ownership have already slip away from far too many , but it be less of a dream and more of a nightmare for too many who now achieve it . from what the Secretary of State have say , there be some agreement between we on the problem those people face , but the content of the Bill do not quite match up to his sentiment or the energy that he bring to the Dispatch Box . so I hope that in wind up , the Minister will not just tell we exactly how far the Bill address the problem raise today but accept that we can work together in later stage to go far . this be a point that I want to make to the Secretary of State as well . there be a long - stand injustice for leaseholder who experience flooding as they currently do not have access to the Flood re scheme . will my right hon . friend seek — I hope she will — to ensure a level playing field for leaseholder and freeholder in access the Flood re scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for that . just as the Secretary of State early bring enthusiasm to the Dispatch Box on cladding and some issue we face there , I hope that , in Committee , we can explore that and the effect on people who have be affect more and more by flooding . the Secretary of State may not have the support of his Prime Minister , or his Back Benchers — [ interruption . ] many of they be not here at the moment — watch this space ! on the Labour Benches , we be unite behind the decisive action that leaseholder need . if the Government can not deliver it , we be ready to do so . a Labour Government will make commonhold the default tenure for all new property as part of our commitment to fundamentally and comprehensively reform the leasehold system . we will also enact the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , commonhold and the right to manage in full . the fact be , unless and until leaseholder of house and flat get a renew commitment from Ministers on all the Law Commission ' s recommendation , leaseholder will reasonably conclude that the Government have scale down their ambition with the scale - back Bill before we . leaseholder deserve to know the real reason why they be be fob off with such limited step . unfortunately , the answer , as ever , lie in the chaos of this Government . the Secretary of State have talk a good game , but he might be the only functional cog in a dysfunctional government — there be a compliment in there ; I be try . [ laughter . ] I hope that he will face down his Prime Minister and his own back Benchers and accept labour ' s proposal to make the Bill meet the challenge of the moment . but if he do not , a Labour Government will . I call the Father of the House . the House will be grateful to know that the official opposition support what the Government be try to do . I pay tribute , as the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State do , to the people in the all - party parliamentary group on leasehold and commonhold reform — Liberals , Labour , Conservatives and other — who , over the last 11 year , have work together to try to get to a situation where it be not possible for freeholder , on purpose or by mistake , to exploit residential leaseholder . when I first speak on this issue about 11 year ago , I declare my interest as a leaseholder in my constituency with no problem whatsoever . six of we buy the freehold willingly from a willing seller — the person who develop the block of flat — when he retire . I have since acquire an interest in another leasehold property . I do not take part in these debate to try to feather my own nest ; I be try to ensure that the 5 million people who be in a bad position have as good an experience as I have have . it be 10 year since I first start quote Leasehold Knowledge Partnership . in addition to sebastian o ' Kelly and Martin Boyd , whom the Secretary of State refer to as well as the campaigner in the National Leasehold Campaign , I would like to name one or two journalist who have help — in particular , the people at " Newsnight " — and the people who have bat away at the issue . major medium organisation ought to have a housing correspondent or editor rather than put it with home affair . we can not expect Mark Easton at the BBC , when he cover the Home Office , to be able to become expert in residential leasehold in the way that be need . I hope that in Committee , and especially in the House of Lords , the part of the Law Commission ' s recommendation that have not be incorporate in the Bill will be put forward for decision by the House and the other place . the three report that it produce in 2020 should be implement in full , or else , when those report come out the Government should have say what be wrong with the proposal . may I emphasise what the Secretary of State say about the ongoing consultation and continue conversation on modern leasehold — the ground rent issue — where the period of consultation have be extend from , I think , late - December to the middle of January ? People will be grateful for that . there be five option . as Dean Buckner , a trustee of LKP , the campaign charity , have say , those who own freehold interest have know since Scotland abolish leasehold that the gravy train be go to end . when the Government come forward with the proposal that ground rent should not be more than 0 . 1 % of the capital value , they know that their value be not as high as some be estimate , and when people start look at the discount rate — I think in the impact assessment it be about 3 . 5 % ; in fact , long - term debt for the Government be now at 4 . 5 % — they see that that again will reduce it . I make the suggestion , which be also on the LKP website , that the Government can deal with any possible compensation by say that they will tax it at 45 % or high , which will make attempt by people to take it to judicial review or challenge to the Government on human right term null and void , or at least not worth try . may I say to the Government that after the Grenfell fire tragedy , while it become clear that up to £ 15 billion of remediation be need not just for cladding but for other fire defect and that the only people who could eventually pay those cost by law would be the leaseholder who own not a brick in the building , the people who ought to be pay be the insurer for those who be responsible — the designer , the architect , the builder , the developer , the subcontractor , the component manufacturer and the like ; they be all insure ? I commend to the House that , in Committee , it should somehow be write into the Bill that potential claim by leaseholder be gather together in an agency , which could sue the insurance company and those they insure to get a contribution from they . that would reduce the cost both to leaseholder and to the Government , who have be provide a lot of money to try to ensure that remediation have happen . I pay tribute to successive Secretaries of State , who have have to give write instruction to their permanent secretary for some of the compensation for fire defect cost , and I say to the Government that the artificial distinction of 11 metre be unjustified . actually , fire death certificate show that more people die in fire in low building , and high building be not risky . we ought to try to recognise the reality . it be also worth say in pass that when Dame Judith Hackitt produce her report and recommendation , I do not think she be well brief on the law on leasehold , which be why some of her recommendation be not properly appropriate . I be glad that since Gavin Barwell we have have a succession of Ministers who have put the Government on the side of leaseholder ; we now know that there be 5 million to 6 million of they . I thank my hon . friend for what he be say . do he agree that , at some stage or other , these unsafe building be sign off as fit and proper building under building regulation and that leaseholder also have a valid claim against the individual who sign they off , who be also insure ? I agree with my hon . friend and pay tribute to he for his work in this field . it be worth note that building standard be set not by those who sign building off — the building control people — but by the Government or quasi - Government agency , so the Government bear some responsibility as well , as I think they recognise . in my thank . I want to include Katherine o ' Riordan , who have help the secretariat of the all - party group and work remarkably well . give that my involvement as an active campaigner on this matter come through a constituency case , I pay tribute to my senior caseworker , Colette Hanson , who for many year — over a decade — have help to support constituent face awful problem , whether on this matter or other . the Secretary of State refer to James Brokenshire , who carry forward many leasehold reform . I also thank Sir Nigel Shadbolt and Sir Tim Berners - Lee and their Open Data Institute for provide help to LKP , the campaign charity , in get information that be publicly available and put it together so that we could know the scale of the problem that we be face . I pay tribute to the law commissioner Professor Nick Hopkins and his team for their 13th programme of law reform . I also pay tribute to Wendy Wilson at the House of Commons Library , who have since leave , and Hannah Cromarty , who have produce briefing for Members of Parliament , which I commend to those outside this building . if they look at the House of Commons research and the LKP site , they will be as knowledgeable as I and will put across these point as effectively or more so . over and again I want to emphasise that people must respond to the Government ' s very good consultation on ground rent . it be well - write and bring out the issue properly . I would be surprised if the dominant view be anything other than that ground rent should be reduce to peppercorn . at one stage , the Government suggest bring it down to £ 10 , but that still leave most of the superstructure and the problem with leaseholder . it should be bring down to a peppercorn to eliminate those . when the consultation be analyse , I ask the Secretary of State to look with favour on reduce ground rent to zero . if I get any benefit , I will give it to a good cause , but I be not say this for I . I could go on at length , and at some stage I probably will . have make my preliminary remark , I want to say to the House that this be the opportunity , before a general election — whoever win — to get legislation through that may be complicated in law but not in politic . be we on the side of the people who have be at risk or exploit by interest who have own freehold ? I have give my list of past shame , and I will not trouble the House with it now . if people have problem with their landlord or freeholder , they should tell their Member of Parliament so that they can bring it up in Committee or on Report . I suggest that those who have use expensive lawyer to screw residential leaseholder use their money on something else . when a notable charity use expensive lawyer to raise the cost of enfranchisement or lease extension by a third — an issue that should have come to Parliament rather than be do in the privacy of an upper property tribunal — we know that those run charity can get it wrong , too . we have leave this too long . let we now get on with it . I call the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . generally , I welcome what be in the Bill , as do the Select Committee , base on our 2019 inquiry . it be what be not in the Bill that be disappointing — that be the difference . let I go back to our report , which build on the work of the APPG — I congratulate the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , who be now a shadow Minister , on their work . that report lead to the work of the Competition and Markets Authority on mis - selling and the Law Commission report . I want to go through some of the Select Committee ' s recommendation and what the Government have follow through on , which we welcome . I also want to look at the matter omit from the legislation , which could easily be add in Committee if the Government want to . leasehold flat be more complicated , and they will probably not be add to the Bill in Committee . the Select Committee accept the complication , particularly where property be part commercial , part residential . however , our report be four year ago , which be a long time for the Secretary of State to work up a scheme to deal with leasehold flat , but we be not there . in the meantime , I hope that he will commit to the Committee ' s recommendation for a programme of education and information for leaseholder , to ensure a well understanding of what commonhold be all about . there be a lack of understanding and information , and if we be to move to commonhold for new property and encourage leaseholder in exist property to convert , that programme be need . the legislation deal primarily with leasehold house . we welcome the commitment to no new leasehold house — or we will when the clause be add to the Bill . we understand that that be for Committee . we welcome the commitment to remove onerous ground rent . the Select Committee look in detail at the argument about the european convention on human right . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill do not address issue associate with the growth in leasehold house over the last few year ? early , I mention Persimmon , which have leave a lot of resident with lease that include not only their own property but common area . traditionally , when my hon . friend and I be in local government , those would have be take over by a local authority . there be real issue with that , which I be go to address later , but I will do so now . it be important to strengthen the right to manage , both for leaseholder and for freeholder in these estate who own the freehold of their house but not of the communal area . I say early that in all property purchase where common area remain in private ownership , there should be , at the point of purchase , a clear understanding of the agreement between the local authority and the developer about who be responsible for those common area . in many circumstance it be simply opaque . often , purchaser do not know who be responsible and be send on a wild goose chase to find out once they have buy their property . return to onerous ground rent , the Select Committee take counsel ' s opinion , which be quite interesting , and make recommendation in paragraph 114 to 116 of our report . there be two clear argument why remove onerous ground rent from lease retrospectively be completely compatible with the european convention on human right . the first , which most of we may not have think about , be that control or change rent be not confiscation of property but control of its use , so it do not conflict with the article on remove people ' s property right . secondly , the convention include a justification where the proposal have a wider beneficial impact on society , which can be offset against any impact on the property owner . Counsel ' s opinion be that it be therefore perfectly justifiable under the european convention to remove onerous ground rent on exist property . my hon . friend will remember that when the Labour Government overturn the case of Custins v . heart of Oak in 1967 , they use exactly those ground to justify do so . I do remember that far back . many will not remember the Labour Government ' s ' 67 reform , but they be quite important on those ground — absolutely . other good aspect of the Bill include its reduce the price of enfranchisement and try to make it simple . now , I be not sure that it make it simple ; it be still a bit complicated . in the end , it partly depend on the capitalisation rate that the Government introduce , which will determine the price . but a lot of my constituent who be leaseholder live in house , and they often face enormous barrier to carry through the enfranchisement process . I have refer to Coppen Estates in my constituency , which be notorious for simply not reply to letter . I once get it to reply to a record letter at the third time of ask . normally , it ignore everything . that be just its way of try to hang on to its ground rent and its income from lease . how will we deal with those sort of individual and company , and the fact that they transfer ownership around from one company to another ? why be there no right of first refusal for leaseholder in the Bill ? I be pleased that , some year ago , Sheffield Council agree that when it sell freehold , the right of first refusal would go to the leaseholder . that would be a simple reform , and I hope the Secretary of State will consider it . the improvement of the enfranchisement process to make it simple and reduce the cost be right , but I would like further improvement to ensure that it will work . I welcome the standardisation of service charge . one big complaint to the Committee be that leaseholder often simply do not know what they be pay and why . they can not work out which service be suppose to be provide and which be not . that be an important step forward . on commission fee , we hear about the £ 150 to change a doorbell and the £ 3 , 000 to put up a conservatory — complete rip - off . there be no justification for they in house in particular , and very little justification in flat . I be pleased that freeholder will now have to provide a schedule of rate that will be charge . we call for a cap on rate , which might have take reform a little far , but at least there now have to be clarity and transparency . I also welcome the clause that mean leaseholder will not end up pay for the legal and other cost of freeholder where there be any conflict or dispute . a number of other measure have be omit from the Bill , but they could be include very easily . the Secretary of State mention forfeiture . if leasehold be a feudal tenure , then forfeiture be prehistoric — it really be . if a leaseholder in a very small way fail to comply with an element of their lease , they could have the property take off they . that be just unacceptable and unjustifiable . the Secretary of State be right in what he say . forfeiture be not necessarily something that get use , but the threat of its being use put the onus on leaseholder to " behave " or do what the freeholder want they to do . the removal of that with a simple clause would be really welcome . I should have include the hon . Gentleman and the Select Committee in my thank , and I do so belatedly . on forfeiture , we could ban it completely , although there may be time when it be necessary to have an order to sell a property to pay debt . the limit should be raise from £ 350 to a significant figure such as £ 5 , 000 , and any remain equity should go back to the person who own the lease and not be pocket by the freeholder . the Father of the House make a very reasonable point . my point be simply that forfeiture be currently a blanket possibility that can apply to any breach of a lease , however minor , and non - payment of a very small amount could cost the leaseholder the total of the value of their property . that be what we have to stop . why do freeholder not have to join a redress scheme ? the Committee call for they to be include in the redress scheme . the Secretary of State be bring in a number of redress scheme and ombudsman extension , so why can freeholder not be include ? one of the big issue raise with we , where again there be a lack of transparency , be that many leaseholder have to pay into a reserve fund — a sink fund — for their property . can we not have some protection for those fund formally write into law ? currently , many leaseholder have no idea what the money be be spend on . there be no obligation on the freeholder to explain it and certainly no protection that fund have to be use for the purpose for which they be pay . on mis - selling , one of the big complaint we hear when we meet leaseholder — this relate to house in particular ; Persimmon Homes have be mention , but there be other developer too — be the fact that they be be sell a leasehold as though it be the same as a freehold . the solicitor be compliant in that , because they have be recommend by the developer . often , a bonus be throw in : " we ' ll give you new carpet in the living room if you use that solicitor . " the Competition and Markets Authority investigate at our request and say there be mis - selling , but so far nothing have be do about it . the Government have do absolutely nothing to rectify that injustice . can we not see something on that again ? I do not think that there be any great conflict across the House , or between anyone who have be involve in this matter . it be wrong — absolutely wrong . solicitor should not be induce in this way to provide conveyancing to a purchaser , when the developer be recommend that solicitor . it simply be not right and it need address . my final point be one that we raise on the private rent reform that the Government will hopefully pursue — and hopefully this year come , rather than wait any long with regard to section 21 . we have call repeatedly for a housing court . I know the Secretary of State will explain again why he do not want to do that , but I think we ought to keep ask . there be so many issue in the housing field that need a specialism , and need quick decision and quick resolution . a housing court would be one way of do that and of try to improve the process . one thing I think so many leaseholder find frustrating with our current court system and the first - tier tribunal be that they do not set a precedent , so even if we identify something with a freeholder who may have multiple thousand of property , every single individual have to go through the process if they be not a party to the original case . do my hon . friend agree that a specialist housing court could at least have precedent build in ? that be an extremely good point . I do not think the Select Committee actually make that point , but it add to its recommendation in a very thoughtful and helpful way . there be a lot of issue , and I be sure we will not resolve all of they in today ' s debate , but they need to be address in Committee . there be reform to the propose legislation that could be make , most of they quite easily . the big issue of leasehold flat be for another day , but it ought to be keep on the agenda . I welcome what be in the Bill , which could be the basis for a much - improve piece of legislation . perhaps we will see an improved Bill come back to we on report . I be delighted to speak on this flagship piece of legislation , which will restore true home ownership to million , end rip - off charge and introduce fairness to the leasehold market . I be confident that it be a good piece of legislation not because I do all the preparatory work on it , but because I work with brilliant official , whom I thank . we hear the testimony of so many thousand of leaseholder who struggle with blighted property that lead to blighted life . there be too many of they to mention individually , but the strength and tenacity of the campaigner — and the organisation , such as the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership and the Leasehold Advisory Service , under the leadership of the superb Martin Boyd , which help they — be enormously impressive . take , for example , Liam Spender , who be able to show that leaseholder in his block have pay £ 1 . 6 million in excess service charge to their freeholder , FirstPort . incidentally , FirstPort be one of the bad offender I hear about in my time as Minister . yet freeholder still have the audacity to sit in front of I while I be a Minister and claim that " some people like the security of pay service charge " and that there be no evidence that they oppose ground rent . yes , truly , that be what they say . shockingly , I understand that Mr Spender and his tenant have receive nothing yet , and now the freeholder be appeal the decision with the leaseholder ' own money . I would like the Minister to set out clearly how the Bill will tackle their situation and end that scandal once and for all . we get here because of the greed and unethical behaviour of predatory freeholder who have treat leasehold property as a cash cow and the leaseholder as a milk machine to produce an endless stream of income for no work at all . it be the ultimate definition of rent - seek behaviour . in its bad excess , it be frankly disgusting . I and many other find it appal . on the case that Liam Spender have so rightly be pursue for his fellow leaseholder , do my hon . friend think it would be a good idea if the Select Committee consider invite in the people he have be engage with to ask why they do not put their hand up straightaway , settle and give back all the money they wrongly take from leaseholder , without have to have extend legal proceeding ? that be an excellent suggestion from my hon . friend the Father of the House , with which I strongly agree — as I do with everything he say about this issue . despite the theatric we hear from the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , who speak for the Opposition , it be the Conservatives who be finally bring in sweeping reform . it be right that we note that Labour duck the issue while they be in office . they could have fix it then . they could have save million from misery — nearly 5 million home , account for 20 % of the entire housing market , be own on a leasehold basis across the UK — but it appear they bow to pressure from freeholder . we will never know why , but thankfully thing will now change . the hon . Lady may not remember — but I do — that before the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 be pass , a great deal of pressure have be apply since 1999 . at that stage , however , their lordship down at the other end of the building threaten to block all of Labour ' s legislation if we insist on put through some of the measure that be ultimately take out of that Bill . the hon . Lady be right ; those measure should have be include . I lobby and campaign for they to be include , and make my speech in the House accordingly , but their lordship be in the majority — and , at the time , 66 % of their lordship have declare in the Register of Interests that they derive most of their income from the management of land . I thank the hon . member for the history lesson but , regardless , we be determined to fix this now . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , because I need to make progress . perhaps I will allow the right hon . gentleman to intervene a little later . the key factor here be choice . at present , leaseholder do not have a choice , or they have a fake choice . the Bill will give they a genuine choice when it come to how they manage and own their home . however , while I warmly welcome these measure , we can and must go far . may I draw the attention of the Secretary of State and the Minister to a few of my suggestion ? the measure in the Bill will clearly be of enormous benefit to individual leaseholder , make it easy and cheap for they to buy freehold or extend lease , but of course this be a very complicated area , and I know it will be difficult for many leaseholder to understand exactly how much they will benefit financially . my first suggestion , therefore , be the provision of an easy - to - use digital calculator enable people to see what the Bill mean for they . then there be the issue of commonhold fix . I know that the focus here be on ensure that leaseholder can not be exploit and can take control of their home , but there be a clear conservative and free - market rationale for accept the Law Commission ' s recommendation on reform commonhold so that more developer choose it , rather than leasehold , for new block of flat — not because they be force to do so , but because it be the good option for their business model . can the Government look at that again ? all the work have already be do . I strongly welcome the Government ' s consultation on cap ground rent . as I say in an intervention early , the Secretary of State must look at who be make the representation , and bear in mind the old adage , " they would say that , wouldn ' t they ? " when people oppose such cap . we know that ground rent be sheer exploitation . let we call a spade a spade : this be money for nothing . can the Minister assure I that there will be time to get a cap into the Bill once the consultation have close ? we have all hear of too many sad case involve a hard core of truly exploitative and dodgy freeholder — the bad apple — rip off and exploit leaseholder . we know that there be some freeholder who treat people properly , but the other know that go to court will be too much hassle for most people , and indeed that the odd tribunal defeat be just part of the cost of do business . we must do something to ensure that there be a real cost to those unscrupulous company and their director . I thank the hon . member for the work that she have be do on this issue . however , she imply that the rip - off merchant constitute only a certain proportion of freeholder . be she not aware that these people have be work in cahoot over the past 10 year , attend conference , identify the weakness in the law , share information and form link with professional such as agent and solicitor in order to rip off innocent leaseholder ? this be a consistent , organise scam that have be grow over 10 year , which be why there be so many more problem now than there be , say , 15 or 20 year ago . of course I be aware of that . when I be privileged to hold the position of Housing Minister , I strongly support the relevant legislation , because those people sit in front of I and cry crocodile tear , tell I that if we go ahead with it we would destabilise the pension industry and leave lot of little old lady with no pension — which be obviously complete and utter nonsense , as I be sure the Secretary of State and the current Housing Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , will be able to tell I on the basis of the analysis that they have conduct . we also need assurance about section 24 manager . I note that , in recent week , at least one freeholder have try to wrest control of a building back from a court - appoint manager — a so - call section 24 manager — claim that it be incompatible with the Building Safety Act 2022 . that be obviously nonsense . if a freeholder have be find not to be manage his building properly , it show some cheek to try to ditch a court appointee on such spurious ground . I hope that the Minister will take the opportunity later to give we the Government ' s view . I welcome the Government ' s intention of introduce build safety measure to ensure that remediation continue to accelerate , and to make it easy to ensure that the right people pay , but may I press the Minister for a little more detail ? I know that , even as we speak , people be make serious decision about their own finance . my constituent in Brockhill , especially those in the Persimmon Homes development , have face innumerable issue relate to freehold estate , and I must press the Minister on what measure he will introduce to help they and , most importantly , when he will do so . I know that the Government intend to introduce a right to manage for freeholder , and to challenge arrangement and charge through the first - tier property tribunal . however , I urge he to read again the Hansard report of the Westminster Hall debate in which I respond , on behalf of the Government , to my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , who have tell a story about one of his constituent who have have to pay thousand of pound for one lamp post . this be an outrageous state of affair , and I want the Government to introduce measure that will tackle it and many other . currently , throughout the country , people ' s new dream home be turn out to be a nightmare . they be be rip off by small - print clause that turn into big bill , and they have no redress . that must be fix . finally , there be a need for regulation of the property management sector more broadly . I recognise that the Bill be not the right vehicle for it , but I urge the Minister to continue to push ahead with a reform that must happen , if not on this side of a general election , then on the other side . we conservative believe that the opportunity to own one ' s home be sacrosanct , and the Bill take another important stride towards the creation of a true property - own democracy . while , as we have make clear , we stand firmly on the side of fairness and those who want to own a home , we be still none the wiser when it come to where Labour member stand . one week they be on the side of the builder , not the blocker — or so they say . the next week , they be block our proposal to build 100 , 000 new home that first - time buyer and young family would desperately want to possess . while they decide whose side they be on , we be take important step to improve the life of million up and down the country . I look forward to work with Ministers on the Bill as it go through the House to strengthen some of its measure , particularly those on commonhold and freehold estate , and to ensure that we deliver on the promise that it hold . let I end by wish my hon . friend the Minister well luck than I have in his tenure of this important role . I especially hope that he can remain to finish the vital job of leasehold and freehold reform and restore true property ownership to million . he will have my full support in the Lobbies . I be pleased to follow the hon . member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , the former Housing Minister , and I congratulate she on her work in this regard . I be disappoint that she choose to adopt a rather partisan tone in some of her remark — unnecessarily , I think — but I be grateful for the more generous tone take by the Secretary of State . I especially welcome his generous and appropriate tribute to our former colleague , Jim Fitzpatrick , for his work in the all - party parliamentary group — I be glad that he be mention . let I begin by identify a specific concern that the Bill have raise . I be aware of it because of the work that the Work and Pensions Committee have do on asbestos . under the Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 , premise can be sell while contain asbestos ; ownership can be transfer . asbestos management be regulate in relation to workplace , where it be the responsibility of the Health and Safety Executive , but not in domestic property . in a lot of share dwelling , such as flat and conversion , the landlord or freeholder have regulate duty under the exist regulation to manage asbestos in the share area in those development . this legislation , as I understand it , may well give rise to the transfer of those obligation to domestic owner . the existence and extent of asbestos in a building might not be know , leave homeowner take on these responsibility with a hidden liability and , potentially , a life - threaten risk to handle as well . homeowner be unlikely to have the wherewithal to manage asbestos in situ effectively , and this could leave a complex set of responsibility and liability between owner in share property or where the nominal landlord no long exist . at the moment , there be tax relief for business remove asbestos from a workplace — they can offset it against corporation tax — but there be no support for homeowner to remove or manage asbestos . it have be suggest to I — this be something I be look at — that there should be an amendment propose that change in ownership of a property in the circumstance envisage in the Bill , or a change in the extent of landlord control , should be a trigger for remove asbestos . otherwise , more asbestos will move outside effective control under this legislation , mean that nobody will be responsible for manage it and potentially create a significant public health risk . I will focus the rest of my remark on part 3 of the Bill and draw attention to some particular instance that have arise in my constituency . my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , in open the debate , rightly express the disappointment of many that the more radical ambition for the Bill have be drop , at least for the time being , but there be lot of practical problem for our constituent that need address and that the Bill can potentially help with . the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , who be in his place , be aware of Barrier Point in my constituency , which comprise eight tower and 257 apartment . tower 8 , the large of the tower , have 50 apartment and a flammable cladding problem . in 2017 , building insurance for the whole of Barrier Point cost £ 104 , 000 . last year , Aviva , which insure the block previously , refuse to quote , so this year resident have end up pay £ 443 , 547 for insurance , and Tower 8 resident have shoulder that huge increase at a cost of between £ 6 , 000 and £ 12 , 000 each . I be grateful both to Aviva and to Barratt , which build the development , for meet resident to try to find a way forward . I be also grateful to the Minister for the interest he have show in this and for his agree to visit — I hope we will have a date for that soon . I can see that the Bill could go some way towards tackle those problem . I particularly welcome clause 27 , 28 and 29 , which increase transparency around service charge and give occupant the right to obtain information about service charge and cost on request . clause 30 , 34 and 35 will help tenant to enforce those right and rebalance the cost of litigation in their favour . the Financial Conduct Authority ' s 2020 report on insurance for multi - occupancy building find that commission be often at least 30 % on a transaction , and it find one case where it be over 60 % . the FCA be worried that insurance commission lack transparency and it fear the conflict of interest that stem from broker regularly share half their commission with the freeholder or manage agent . replace commission with transparent handling fee , as clause 31 and 32 envisage , should certainly help . I appreciate everything that my right hon . friend be say . he will be aware , though , that many company hold freehold will also set up an arm ' s - length company that be the broker , thus take a double take in term of the commission . it be not just that they get cut from the broker ; they be the broker . my hon . friend make an important point and I welcome his work in this area over a long period . the change in the Bill be not likely to do much to help the resident of Barrier Point who have exercise their right to manage . the FCA have argue that " the intervention most likely to reduce price for the minority of multi - occupancy building with the most substantial price increase would be cross - industry risk pooling " . I be pleased to hear from the Secretary of State , in answer to my intervention , that he will be meet representative of the Association of British Insurers this week . the ABI initiative on this issue appear , up to now , to have stall . the FCA recommend that the ABI should work with it and with the Government to introduce a risk pool scheme in 2022 . the scheme be expect to come forward last summer , but we be still wait . I be hope that , as a result of the meeting this week that the Secretary of State have tell we about , thing will get move . I check with the FCA last week about this . it say that the ABI plan be " credible and capable of deliver saving to those bad affected building " , but it go on to add that the plan be delay with " no firm launch date " because the ABI be struggle to secure " the reinsurance capacity require " . that seem to be the obstacle . I very much hope that the Secretary of State can find a way to push this forward at his meeting . the ABI urge the Government to increase capacity by back catastrophic loss in the scheme . it do that most recently in June . can the Minister tell we whether that appeal have be consider by the Department and whether that might be take forward at the meeting with the Secretary of State later this week ? when do he think risk pooling will commence ? on remediation , there be a power imbalance between leaseholder and freeholder . that have be highlight to I by Barrier Point resident . the Bill do not really address that . section 72 of the Building Safety Act 2022 make a right - to - manage company the " accountable person " for a high - risk multi - occupancy building , make the director criminally liable if negligence can be prove . the same Act , however , require only that freeholder " co - operate " with accountable person , without any enforcement mechanism in place at all . the freeholder at Barrier Point have hold up remediation work for several month and be refuse to sign off on they . the director of the right - to - manage company desperately want to fulfil their legal obligation but they be leave liable because of the refusal of the freeholder to say okay , and there be no comparable liability on the freeholder . that seem wrong , and I wonder whether that imbalance can be address in the course of the Bill ' s passage through the House . the Minister say in oral question just last week that the Government plan to make change to the Bill as it go through Parliament , and I hope he will consider how that imbalance can be address to ensure that remediation work can go ahead in a case such as that , which I suspect be by no mean unique . the resident of Barrier Point want to purchase their freehold . to do so , they need to get at least 50 % of all the leaseholder to agree to , and be able to afford , a freehold purchase . that be very difficult in a building with 257 household . I do not think the Bill do anything to make that process easy , so I very much hope that Ministers will be open to further improvement as it progress through the House . my speech will be brief , as I want to concentrate on one aspect of the Bill . estate management company be a massive and grow issue in my Dartford constituency . some 7 , 000 new home have be build in my constituency over the last 10 year , and they be predominantly " look after " by management company . I welcome the measure in the Bill that will rightly allow resident to challenge the invoice and bill they be send by management company . this will help to transfer some of the power back to resident , by give they a tool to say , " this invoice be unfair , " " this bill be not right , " or , " these account be not right . " it be absolutely right that power be transfer away from management company and into the hand of local resident , because at the moment management company seem to do pretty much whatever they like . they can put up the charge they levy on resident way above inflation while provide a very poor service , and local resident can do very little about it . local resident find themselves completely restrict in challenge what be , on occasion , a hideously poor service with extortionate fee . they be tread on by the management company . of course , resident question why they have to pay council tax at the same time as pay management fee , as they often find that their management fee be use to pay for , say , play park that the whole community can use for free . they have to pay for it , they have to pay for the maintenance and they have to pay council tax , too , which seem very unfair . in my experience , local resident want to be able to change their management company . they want to be able to switch over and to say to their management company , " no , you have not provide a good enough service . you be charge we too much money , and therefore we be go to use a different management company . " if that happen , it will help to tackle most of the problem we be experience with management company . it will end the monopoly by return competition to the system , enable the good management company to prevail and the poor one to fall by the wayside . the whole House will accept that my hon . friend be rightly argue for total transparency . there ought to be open - book accounting by these manage agent , so that those who be pay can see what be happen . do my hon . friend agree that the amalgamation of manage agent be a dangerous trend ? it mean that the choice be reduce , not increase . give that some manage agent be very large and people ' s experience of they be not very good , we ought to try to make sure that there be not this continual amalgamation and that there be a good choice of good manage agent that want to earn a well reputation . the Father of the House make a very good point . I would like to see co - operation between company , rather than amalgamation . in my constituency , we often see two management company send two people to mow the grass on the same estate . resident look out of their window and see the grass on one side of the estate be mow by one company and the grass on the other side of the estate be mow by a different company . of course , they have to pay twice for that pleasure . if the company co - operate , that situation would not arise . some 20 % of the people attend my surgery be there to complain about management company . even a constituent of the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) come to my surgery — with two of my constituent , I hasten to add — to raise issue about management company . she be very complimentary of the hon . Gentleman , by the way , but I put she straight . however , she be not very complimentary about the management company that she be suffer from . this problem happen in Greenwich , in Dartford and across the country , and we need this Bill to get to grip with it . be the hon . Gentleman aware that management fee slowly go up in some retirement village and retirement complex ? old people do not challenge they , and it end up make their flat either unsellable or worth less than they pay . the right hon . Gentleman make an excellent point , and it highlight how management fee undermine the whole housing sector . we will end up in a situation where people do not want to buy nice home because of the management company that operate on these estate . it undermine freehold , because people live on these estate have to go to the management company to get an information pack in order to sell their home . of course , the information pack do not come free . on most estate in my constituency , people have to pay the management company £ 350 effectively to ask for permission to sell their house . a lady contact I and , apart from the cost , some of the information in her information pack be wrong . when she contact the management company to ask some question about the information it have provide , she be tell that each question would be charge at £ 60 plus vat , but this be the management company ' s fault , not her . that be just one example — I could give thousand — of just how horrifically some management company behave . the Bill need to deal with these organisation . the hon . Gentleman be make some excellent point . be he aware that some company manage residential property for the elderly charge 10 % of the property ' s sale price , which they take to themselves for the privilege of allow it to be sell ? I have hear of those kind of thing . the same happen with park home , and we be also try to tackle that . it be only right that we tackle this issue with management company , because it totally undermine the concept of freehold . the Secretary of State rightly say that he support home ownership , yet we have a system that undermine the principle of home ownership . People buy these house in my constituency because they be nice home in a nice area , and they often buy they in a seller ' s market . they be literally stand in a queue , with other people wait behind they to buy the same property . if they have not sign on the dotted line there and then , there be plenty of people behind they who would have . they sign without a full appreciation of the term of the contract , which effectively say that the management company can put up its management fee way beyond inflation , and there be nothing that can be do about it . I echo the Father of the House . as we consider the Bill throughout its passage , member have to decide which side we be on . be we on the side of the management company , or be we on the side of local resident ? it should be a no - brainer for every Member of the House , and I hope we will come together . after the Bill get its Second reading , I be sure we would all like to see some amendment in Committee . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) . he be absolutely right about management company need more transparency and more accountability . today ' s Second reading of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill be long overdue for my Battersea constituent . many be trap in the exploitative leasehold system , which deny they control , safety , security and a future in their home . unfortunately , the Bill fall short of what the Secretary of State commit to when he say that the Government " will maintain our commitment to abolish the … system of leasehold . we absolutely will . " — [ Official Report , 30 January 2023 ; Vol . 727 , c . 49 . ] this be yet another broken promise by the Tories . we all know that everyone deserve to live in a safe , decent and affordable home , and that mean abolish the unfair and outdated leasehold system . in London alone , leasehold account for more than 30 % of home . some 74 % of home sell in Battersea in 2022 be leasehold transaction , make Battersea the 18th high constituency in the country for leasehold . so this Bill really matter to the people of my constituency . I have be in this House for only six and a half year , and we have debate leasehold reform continuously . indeed , we have pass legislation , by way of the Fire Safety Act 2021 and the Building Safety Act 2022 , which follow the awful , awful tragedy at Grenfell Tower . however , we know that even with all that legislation and despite all these debate , the system be still flawed and not all leaseholder be protect . in England and Wales , our approach have not be in keep with that of the rest of the world , because many country have choose to do away with this feudal system or have reform it ; we be still in this state of stalemate . the Law Commission ' s proposal back in 2020 have cross - party support . everybody be in favour of they all , so it be disappointing that the Bill do not include all of its proposal and recommendation . that be sad because the Government have miss an opportunity to make some positive change that would protect our leaseholder . the Government ' s inaction and delay in tackle the extortionate cost associate with be a leaseholder have have an impact , not least on people ' s finance , as well as on their mental health and wellbeing . many of my constituent regularly tell I about the range of problem they face : surge ground rent ; high service charge ; a lack of transparency over charge ; poor customer service ; excessive administration charge ; charge for application to extend lease agreement or enfranchise ; and a lack of knowledge and information about their right and obligation . the leaseholder in Battersea do not receive value for money on service charge , which can be increase at the last minute ; they can go up drastically , with little warning . in one case , someone have their service charge increase by 30 % , without any breakdown of cost or transparency as to why that have happen . at that time , the management company be — I be not sure of the good way to describe this — not forthcoming . in addition , it be abrasive , belittling and rude in its response to we . so it be important that the role of these management company and the way they be handle be address . I be pleased that the Government be introduce long overdue measure to improve home ownership for many leaseholder . the Bill will make it cheap and easy to extend a lease or buy the freehold ; and it will increase the standard lease extension term from 90 year to 990 year , with the ground rent reduce to a peppercorn — obviously , upon payment of a premium . that be good and I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State say today that the Government will be consult on ground rent . sadly , he do not address my point about shared ownership and those who staircase to 100 % and then become leaseholder , so I hope the Minister will clarify whether the consultation will seek to address that issue as well . we need more transparency on thing such as service charge , and it be right that the Bill will provide that . it will also provide for a right to request information about those charge . however , as be mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) and many other , despite multiple assurance from Ministers , the Government have U - turn on their commitment to end the leasehold system . after all that they have be promise , my constituent would have expect the Government to go far and end this outdated system . the Bill do not even contain provision to ban the creation of new leasehold house , as be promise in the King ' s Speech . I understand that that will be bring forward in Committee , but why on earth be it not in the Bill today ? there be never go to be enough time to really go into detail about the challenge with the Bill , but it be important to note that housing be a human right . everybody should be able to live in a safe , decent , warm and affordable home . homeowner should be able to have security and have the power of their own home , regardless of the type of tenure . if you buy your home , you expect it to be yours ; you do not expect there to be a freeholder who own this aspect of it . the Government could take some lesson from Labour , as we will protect leaseholder through make commonhold the default tenure for all new property and by overhaul the system so that exist leaseholder can collectively purchase more easily and move to commonhold if that be their wish . we be also commit to support house building , in order to deal with the housing crisis that the Tories have create and not address . that be why we need this leadership on housing ; we do not need any more broken promise and fail policy from this Government , which have really leave this country in a mess . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) . let I start by pay tribute to the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , who have be campaign on this issue for many year , to great success , eventually . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be no long in her place , for all the work she have do in the preparation of this Bill . I welcome the principle of the Bill . some Opposition Members may say it be too timid , but with 58 page of detailed legislation and equation , which remind I of my time study physics and math at university , it can hardly be say to be less than complex . the key issue be : have the Government go far enough in what they intend to do ? our manifesto commitment be clear : to promote fairness and transparency for leaseholder , and ensure that consumer be protect from abuse and poor service . clearly , that be a fundamental requirement . the Law Commission ' s 2017 review of leasehold law represent it , and it be have take we six year to get to this point in deal with some of the abuse . we have to remember that 94 % of people who have buy leasehold property regret buy they and 70 % of leaseholder be worried that they will not be able to sell their home because they be leasehold . that be one fundamental thing we need to answer . we also need this leasehold reform to reform and support the housing market , because almost half of leaseholder be first - time buyer and 28 % be under 35 . at a time when few and few people be buy their first home at such an age , it be vital that we not only encourage people to buy their first home , but simplify the system . so I welcome the overarching aim of the Bill to modernise this complex system , but clearly there be still a lot of work to do . obviously , make it cheap and easy for exist leaseholder in house and flat to extend their lease and buy their freehold be a key point . the so - call " marriage rate " make it almost impossible for leaseholder to buy property with few than 80 year leave on the lease and to extend that lease to 990 year , which be what we be now go to be look at . have that as the standard position for house and flat have to be the right thing to do . we should remember that the original position on extension be 90 year for flat and 50 year for house , so we be introduce a massive change and it be extremely welcome . I thank my constituency neighbour for give way ; if he be fortunate at the next election , he may inherit some more leasehold flat . as he will know , in this country a freeholder hold their freehold for a period of 999 year from the Crown and that may run out before any new leasehold be able to conclude its 999 year . do he understand what the Government propose to do in that situation ? longevity may run in my family , but not to the extent of 1 , 000 year . the hon . Gentleman make a good point and I be sure the Minister will seek to answer it in his sum up . introduce new right for long leaseholder to buy out the ground rent without need to extend the term of the lease be another extremely welcome move , as be remove the requirement for a new leaseholder to have own their house for two year before they can benefit from the change . the new right to require the freeholder to take a leaseback of non - participate unit when a collective enfranchisement claim be make be also vital . we do not want to get to a position where people be deter from enfranchisement because they can not take on those who do not take on enfranchisement . a new cost regime for enfranchisement and right - to - manage claim so that each party bear their own cost be vital . far too often , the freeholder have seek to obtain their cost from the purchaser , which be clearly unfair and unjust . move jurisdiction for enfranchisement and right - to - manage dispute to the first tier tribunal and the leasehold valuation tribunal in Wales make it much easy for party to identify how they can bring about a dispute . I note the point the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , raise when he say that freeholder often make it as difficult as possible for enfranchisement to take place . the issue of transparency of service charge be vital . one of the benefit of serve on a Select Committee for a long time be be able to remember the report the Committee be involve in , and I well remember an inquiry into this issue . we want all service charge to be transparent and fix to the cost of provide that service , as oppose to a figure pluck out of the air and then pass on to the person supposedly receive the service . it be welcome to see that the Bill contain measure for minimum key financial and non - financial information to be supply to those receive the service on a regular basis , include through a standardised service charge and an annual report . that mean leaseholder can scrutinise and well challenge cost if they be unreasonable . equally , replace building insurance commission for manage agent , landlord and freeholder with transparent administration fee stop leaseholder from be charge exorbitant , opaque commission on top of their premium , an issue that have already be raise in the debate . I welcome scrap the presumption for leaseholder to pay their freeholder ' legal cost , which in my opinion be outrageous , as well as grant freehold owner on private and mixed - tenure estate the same right of redress as leaseholder , by extend their equivalent right to transparency over their estate charge and to challenge the charge they pay by take a case to a tribunal . all these measure be welcome , but there be many other area where we need to go far . the promise to do away with leasehold — or fleecehold — completely be clear in the manifesto ; in my view , that promise should be honour , particularly on the sale of new - build flat . in London , they be now the most common property type ; almost all flat be sell on leasehold basis , compare to just 6 % of house . on the individual building firm , we have hear about Persimmon , but we should also remember Bellway , whose chief executive come in front of our Select Committee and tell we — I repeat what they say almost word for word — that it be the company ' s policy not to offer the freehold to leaseholder at the first opportunity . instead , six month after build the property and sell the leasehold , it would transfer they to a finance company , which would go through the detail of all the charge it could make and then really leverage up those charge , and the finance company would refuse to allow the leaseholder to even consider buy the freehold . that be the policy of that company . I think Permission admit that that be its policy too , and other building company do exactly the same . that be a scandal and it should be stop , and we should legislate for that . clearly , we all want to see the promotion of commonhold . however , as the Chairman of the Committee say , we need more education for individual , so they understand not only their right but the responsibility they would take on with commonhold . one concern that have be raise with I on several occasion be about what will happen , once this welcome Bill be on the statute book — we look forward to the amendment that be make — to exist leaseholder who buy their leasehold in good faith but be not be deal with properly or effectively . we need to ensure that squeeze out the bad practice of freeholder and manage agent , which be unfair to individual , be part and parcel of the legislation . there be also the issue of conveyance . Most people who buy their first property pay the minimum legal cost they can get away with . as a result , they often be not give proper advice about the consequence of their decision . we need to ensure that individual be give the opportunity to understand the responsibility they be take on and , more importantly , what will happen to they in the future if there be service charge involve . local authority hold a huge number of property under lease condition and , if they want to sell the freehold to leaseholder , they be often among the bad set of people to deal with across the country . I agree that a leaseholder should have the right of first refusal if a freehold be be offer . will my hon . friend the Minister give a commitment that , after we have engage in consultation on service charge , the result of those consultation will be reflect in Committee so that we can strengthen the Bill ? finally , I want to refer to a particular building in a constituency that neighbour mine . it have 13 floor and still have the old , Grenfell - style cladding . we all know the tragedy of Grenfell , but the owner of the building be refuse point blank to remove the cladding unless and until they be give planning permission to build on top of the building , so that they can sell more property to pay for the cost of remediate the cladding . the self - same company , Ballymore , although it have yet to submit a planning application , want to build 29 block of flat , the tall of which will be 29 storey and the majority of which will be more than 20 storey , at a density great than Manhattan , Singapore or any other place in the world . that be a scandal . when the Secretary of State name certain building company , he promise that if they refuse to carry out the work that they should do , they would not be give planning permission to enable the development of more leasehold flat . I call on he to ensure that they be not give planning permission until such time as they be put right what they have put wrong . I pay tribute to all those who have fight for so long and so hard to achieve this limited reform . I will support the Bill , and I look forward to we take forward further measure so that we can end the feudal system of leasehold once and for all . I have mention before that liberal have be campaign to end leasehold since the day of Lloyd George , so I be pleased to see this piece of legislation finally be debate in the die day of this Parliament . I hope that there be the time leave to pass it and see meaningful change for the many leaseholder — leasehold comprise 20 % of the housing stock in England — who be box in by exorbitant management charge and uncapped ground rent . the content of the Bill be welcome , and the liberal Democrats will not oppose it on Second Reading , but , like other member , we have significant concern about the omission from it . first , the Bill do not actually ban leasehold . perhaps more importantly , it do not ban the creation of new leasehold flat . I do not grasp the logic of argue that leasehold be outdated and unsuitable for the modern housing market , while allow 70 % — the vast majority — of leasehold arrangement to go ahead . the Liberal Democrats support the comment make recently in the Guardian by the shadow Minister , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , that " commonhold should be the new default tenure " for all flat , and that it should be easy for leaseholder to collectively purchase their freehold should they wish . I also agree with several other member that give leaseholder first refusal when the freehold be sell be a good idea . it seem to I that without those more radical measure , the Bill be less leasehold reform and more leasehold tinker . I think that we all agree with the Secretary of State that this be a feudal system that need radical overhaul , and I be not sure why the Bill do not go far to achieve that . I have be lobby , and I have some sympathy for the argument that there be a need to ensure that there be a clear line of responsibility , and indeed liability , for build maintenance and safety in large block of flat , but most other country — in fact , all country other than Australia — have manage to achieve that without reliance on the leasehold model . indeed , our recent experience regard the safety of large block of flat , with the cladding scandal , suggest that in many instance the leasehold model have demonstrably fail to provide it . we probably all agree on that point . I be also confused about why the Bill omit to introduce professionalisation in the management of leasehold building . the British Property Federation have say that " the lack of any provision to introduce competency standard or regulation to our sector be a miss opportunity . " give the experience of many leaseholder over the cladding scandal , and the welcome professionalisation of the social housing sector , I hope that the Government recognise the importance of ensure that management be professionalise and will seek to introduce such measure in Committee . I wonder whether the Minister would commit to that in his closing remark . in my North Shropshire constituency we do not have a large number of flat , but we have be plague to some extent by new housing development in which the housing be freehold but shared area , service and essential infrastructure be manage by the original developer . as we all know , those be refer to as fleecehold , and since be elect I have tell a number of horror story regard such arrangement , both in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall . the provision in the Bill that allow the right to challenge charge , provide for great transparency of information , and relate to the quality of work and an associated system of civil penalty , be a welcome step in the right direction , but I wonder whether I could push the Government to go far in that area . the tenant of such development pay both their council tax and an estate management charge , yet they often receive a far bad service than those who live in adopt development and be subject only to council tax . the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) lay out some of the issue in his excellent speech , so I will not go into too much detail , but I urge the Minister to consider end the practice of share ownership of public space for the vast majority of new development . they have the commercial substance of a leasehold , and I would like to see a presumption that the share area around new development be almost always adopt by the local authority where the development be standard in nature . where there be no good reason for that not to happen , homeowner on those development should have their right clearly set out so that the matter can be settle quickly in court . I ask the Minister to consider far the specific circumstance where asset such as sewage pumping equipment or a ground source heat pump be share by everyone on the estate . I be grateful to he for listen to my concern prior to the debate . freeholder use such equipment be dependent on its be instal and maintain to a high standard , but the experience of my constituent be that conveyance solicitor do not alert buyer to the risk involve in this type of structure , and that the ownership structure can be opaque and almost impossible to challenge . I have one development in which the developer retain the ground source heat pump to be use by the rest of the house in a separate company . he charge the full cost of run that pump to the resident but keep the renewable heat incentive payment to himself , make a huge profit in the process . the freeholder ' only route of redress be through the court . because of the opaque management structure , it be not clear that they will win , and they do not really have the resource to commit to those legal proceeding . it be not uncommon in rural place such as North Shropshire for a new development to use a share septic tank rather than be connect to the main sewer . if the tank have be instal to a poor standard , the cost of rectification be charge to the freeholder once they move in . those be cost that they would not have anticipate when they buy the property . I would welcome great clarity over who be responsible for ensure that such shared asset be fit for purpose before the freehold house be sell for habitation . currently , such asset and service be outside the building control regime . that mean that if someone get a completion certificate on their house , which might have be properly construct , but their sewage system be not fit for purpose , they will still have a valid building control certificate , and will be none the wiser when they buy the property . I ask the Minister to consider whether further protection can be put in place , such as ensure that inspection of those asset be include as part of the building control sign - off , ensure that reserve fund be be collect and appropriately ringfence through reasonable service charge throughout the life of such asset , and allow freeholder to take joint ownership of the asset for a nominal fee if they wish to do so . a right to manage would be so welcome for resident trap in such situation . will the Minister also expand on the issue of enforcement ? the additional right afford to leaseholder and those pay estate management charge will be effective only if there be an affordable way for leaseholder and fleeceholder to ensure that they can be enforce . we all have experience of freeholder simply fail to respond to correspondence , or require their tenant to take they to court in a highly unaffordable process , often charge the cost of that court process to leaseholder . enforcement be therefore not really achievable at the moment , but it be so important to ensure that those revenue stream be effectively squeeze for freeholder . the Bill be a small step in the right direction , but so much more could be do to end this outdated form of tenure . it be 1909 when Lloyd George describe leasehold as " not business , but blackmail " . it be high time that we grasp the nettle and end it . there be much to welcome in the Bill . it be all too easy to believe that leasehold affect only London and the large city across the country , but that be not so . in the past 30 to 40 year in particular , many more property have be build on a leasehold basis . many leaseholder be now face the dilemma of whether to extend . it be estimate that there be 4 . 98 million leasehold property , equate to 20 % of the housing stock . that include property in my constituency , and I have raise the matter in the House previously . I also have a personal interest as a leaseholder . many year before come to this place , I have the unpleasant experience of extend our own lease . the Government make good progress with the Leasehold Reform ( Ground Rent ) Act 2022 , which limit ground rent to a peppercorn on all new lease . the Bill that we be consider today do not include the same limitation to protect exist leaseholder from onerous and potentially very expensive ground rent . without that , up to 4 . 98 million homeowner will be leave saddle with unfair ground rent . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who be no long in his place , say that " liberate leaseholder form a vital part of the government ' s long - term plan for housing . " we can not have a situation in which we be liberate future leaseholder while leave exist homeowner trap . this be an urgent problem . the Government ' s own consultation in 2017 identify it as a trend leave leaseholder face significant and unsustainable increase in ground rent , which often affect the saleability of their home , so I hope it will be address . on new leasehold house , I welcome the Government ' s commitment to end the creation of new leasehold house . it be time we move on from what other hon . member have also describe as an archaic system that hold homeowner back . however , I be concerned that measure to do that have not appear in the Bill as draft . my understanding be that the Government intend to bring forward amendment for that purpose , but I would also like an assurance from my hon . friend the Minister at the Dispatch Box that that will be the case . I be also concerned that new leasehold house may still be permit under exceptional circumstance . I ask my hon . friend the Minister to tell I exactly what those circumstance cover , and to assure I that safeguard will also be put in place . we need to ensure that that exception be use sparingly , if at all , and do not become a loophole for developer who simply wish to push more leasehold in through the back door . turn to the extension of exist lease or the acquisition of freehold , an important and necessary part of the propose change will be the extension of the lease , with a new standard 990 - year lease with zero ground rent . the removal of the marriage value from the premium calculation be also welcome and much need , and potentially represent a fair and equitable change for leaseholder . as you may recall , Mr . Deputy Speaker , I raise my concern in the debate on the King ' s Speech that those reform be long overdue . I be disappointed that they have come forward so late in this Parliament , especially when we promise reform as far back as February 2017 . I for one would not want to see current leaseholder , who have no choice but to renegotiate their current lease now , unfairly leave out in the cold by our legislating so late in this Parliament . I therefore ask the Minister to consider a sunset clause in the Bill , to allow anyone who have have to negotiate since the start of the current Parliament to be afford a right of passage under the reform to extend their lease to the new standard . like my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be no long in her place , I would welcome the introduction of an online calculator for calculate the cost of an extension . I believe that would make the process simple and more streamlined for those who be seek to extend their lease or acquire the freehold . however , it must also be quick and inexpensive for leaseholder to calculate and find out the cost of an extension , because currently that be not the case . put simply , the current system of use archaic graph be another way to set the system against the leaseholder — and , sadly , too much of the current system be weight in favour of the freeholder . that be why this legislation be so badly need . the change to ensure that legal cost be share , as oppose to the current system whereby the leaseholder bear all the cost , be also welcome . we also need to end the weighting of independent arbitration through the Tribunals Service in favour of the freeholder . in consider this Bill , we have the opportunity to shape legislation and create a level playing field for both party . on commonhold we also need to do more . reform would give the leaseholder of flat the right to acquire and manage the common part of the building . that be potentially a welcome change , provide that protection against the abuse of service charge be in place . however , when it come to dispute , there be a clear need to revamp the tribunal system . it do not fulfil what it be set out to achieve . the tribunal system be create to strengthen the right of long leaseholder , and to provide a cheap and quick way to resolve dispute , yet in reality it be the antithesis of that . leaseholder often avoid the tribunal system altogether , due to fear of become liable for the freeholder ' s tribunal cost , and regrettably there be many case where freeholder landlord recruit high - powered barrister and simply pass their fee on to the leaseholder , regardless of whether they win or lose . it be also fair to say that that lead to leaseholder worry that they will be unable adequately to defend their position on , for example , raise a dispute over unreasonable administration charge . that need to change . we need a renewed and refresh tribunal system that empower and protect leaseholder . there be additional thing that we can also do to see improvement now for those with leasehold . the right to manage be an important part of our toolkit , and I welcome measure in the Bill to improve that process . the current claim process be complex , and leaseholder can find their attempt frustrate by rogue freeholder who block they from exercise their right . I would like to see more of the Law Commission ' s recommendation implement , particularly where we can make the process cheap and less complicated to implement . let we be bold and include more measure to help our homeowner to take back control . there be also a strong need for a new regulatory model for manage agent . under the current system , anyone can become a manage agent , regardless of experience . unfortunately , many leaseholder report countless problem with their agent , from high service charge to lack of transparency or exclusion from decision making . of course , there be some manage agent who perform well and choose to sign up to standard of practice , but there be many who do not . this , for I , be a clear case of a moral hazard . it must be address , and we have the opportunity to do so through this Bill . I be pleased that the Government have commit to regulate manage agent through a single , mandatory and legally enforceable code of practice . manage agent will be require to have a nationally recognise qualification to practice , which will be oversee by an independent regulator . by require they to adhere to minimum standard through a professional body , we can expect to see high level of professional conduct among all manage agent . finally , I want to mention housing association . I would hope to see under this new legislation a requirement for great transparency on service charge and the replacement of build insurance commission for manage agent or landlord , with transparent administration fee , to benefit leaseholder who have exercise their right to buy within the social housing sector and those within the leasehold retirement bracket . recently , I have come across numerous example in my own constituency where leaseholder in those sector have be leave with unexplainable and unjustifiable bill — something that this legislation must stamp out . to conclude , we have an opportunity with this Bill to get rid of archaic process and system , to renew and refresh the legislation on leasehold and to create a level playing field . there be much to welcome , but I still believe there be more that we can do through this legislation . it be a pleasure to speak on the second reading of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill and to follow so many excellent contribution from member across the House . they have all provide example , most of which I have experience in my eight and a half year in this place . for year and year , leaseholder , campaigner and group such as the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership have be warn the Government about the huge harm be do by our outdated , feudal and antique leasehold system . many of we have raise it in this House . problem with leasehold be one of the big issue bring to I by constituent , and I be sure if the Minister join I in meet resident of just one or two block in my constituency , whether it be Great West Quarter in Brentford , Grove House in Isleworth or Wheatstone House in Chiswick , he would see the wide array of problem cause by the leasehold system . we have have nearly four year of promise from successive Conservative Housing Ministers and Secretaries of State to commit definitely to leasehold reform . the Government have talk a good game but fail to deliver the big comprehensive package of reform need . this piece of legislation be yet another example of that failure . this be suppose to be the grand reform Bill from the grand reform Secretary of State , who be not currently in his place . he have become the Conservatives ' Mr Fix - it . he be send in to fix the justice system and then the Cabinet Office , and even to deliver the parting blow to the former Prime Minister . when he be present with the leasehold system , there be a glimmer of hope that the Government would slay the vested interest and finally fix this antique system — but no , the right hon . Member have flinch . he have fail , because before we today we see a timid and narrow Bill that do not go anywhere near far enough to fix the problem face by leaseholder . Most new home in my constituency be flat , not house , so although end the sale of leasehold house be welcome overall , it will not help my constituent and the million across the country who be still live in , or face the prospect of live in , leasehold flat . if the House will indulge I , I will give a typical example of why the leasehold system be outdate and just what the legislation should be address . imagine someone in their early 30 on the career ladder in a reasonably well - pay job . they have save up for year , often while stick in private rental . they finally have enough for a mortgage , and they can just about afford the monthly repayment rate . they look across west London and can not afford to buy a house , but they then see a glossy advert for a flat . at first glance , it look perfect . they have work out that they can get a mortgage and use their deposit to get a foot on the ladder . it look as if their salary can pay the mortgage and the service charge , so they buy and assume that they have a stake in the home that they now own . too often , they be keep in the dark by solicitor who be often recommend by developer . they move in and the problem start . they notice a few problem : the promise concierge might not be there ; the gym on the brochure never open ; rubbish be leave in the hallway ; the car park barrier and the door from the car park into the flat be often break , create a security hazard ; and heating and hot water stop work for week on end . they report those issue , but nothing happen . then , they get their service charge bill in the post : it have increase to more than £ 7 , 000 a year , over 50 % more than what they be tell they would be spend . one constituent have see a trebling of their service charge since they buy their flat in 2017 , but while the service charge go up , the service get bad . leaseholder feel that they be treat like cash cow . then they be hit with an increase in their building insurance : what be £ 200 a year be now £ 400 , £ 500 or more . they ask why those cost have go up , but they do not receive a specific or clear answer . many be face with have to sell , sometimes at a loss . if they be lure into share ownership , manage by housing association , they face additional problem . the part - buy / part - rent set - up be suppose to be target at keyworker in the public sector , many of whom be on fix pay . on top of the mortgage and service charge , those so - call owner — they be not really owner , be they ? — find out that their rent be go up . in many case , my constituent in share ownership have see rent increase of 6 % , 7 % or 8 % . they only own 20 % or 25 % , and if they need to sell , they have to sell through their housing association , unless they be in the fortunate position of be able to step up and own the lease outright . a report that I read say that many housing association drag their foot on resale as there be not much money to make from they . they focus their energy on get the new block sell . I have hear from many constituent who be share owner . they wait month and month to sell , and have to pay for costly valuation , while they be trap in limbo try to get on with their life . many of my constituent who be leaseholder be also unable to sell because they be wait for remediation work to begin on block deem to be unsafe . much of that emerge follow the tragedy at Grenfell . bank will still not approve mortgage for those block until the work be carry out , which mean that , again , those leaseholder be trap in limbo . in one case in my constituency , Galliard Homes have delay and delay take any action , despite promise that it would start month ago . leaseholder in block below 12 metre be still responsible for funding building safety fix . they be carve out and leave to deal with the crisis themselves . for one of my constituent , that mean a £ 20 , 000 bill hang over their head . the building safety crisis be a wide symptom of the building culture that the leasehold system encourage ; a system in which a small number of people and company be able to make huge profit , with absolutely zero oversight of the build quality . let I move on to repair . the resident of Wheatstone House in Chiswick , which be manage by L & Q , face an example of poor repair service . leaseholder and tenant in that block have know their hot water and heating not to work for day on end . that start last winter and be back again this winter . each time , resident get a lacklustre and slow response from L & Q . we see a repeat of such poor service when Peabody - Catalyst drag its foot for month in fix the lift at Aplin Way in Isleworth , trap some resident upstairs . the developer then try to leave leaseholder with a huge bill . other have district heating system that run at 35 % efficiency but cost a lot of money . what do the legislation do to address those issue ? on service charge , management company have their cake and eat it . the hon . member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , who be no long in his place , mention the excess charge , increase well above inflation , deteriorate service and opaque bill . management company be often too closely align by ownership with the freeholder . the same name keep come up : Rendall & Rittner and FirstPort appear to be hoover up the management contract for a range of block , include housing association , share ownership and resident management company , all the while provide an appalling service to the leaseholder . on decline value and the need to extend lease , constituent have tell I about how they worry about their future if they have less than 80 year leave on their lease . I do not think that the Bill do enough to address that challenge . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) have say that a Labour Government would go far and ensure that everyone who want to move from leasehold to commonhold would be able to do so . a Labour Government will make commonhold the default tenure for all new property , and will carry out the Law Commission ' s recommendation — I welcome that . labour will also address the omission on deferment rate . we will do what the Conservatives have fail to do . I have touch on only some of the many and varied issue that my leaseholder constituent have face . the legislation do not go far enough for they and will not fix the problem that they face . it will not help those who be stick in limbo and unable to sell , it will not help those who be trick into share ownership with false promise , and it will not prevent yet more leaseholder from have their life turn upside down . when someone be hand their first set of key , it should be a day of dream , but for so many of my constituent and million of people across the country , that dream have turn into a nightmare . the Government have a chance to end that nightmare through this piece of legislation , but they have fail to do so . leaseholder at 8 Artillery Row pay on average £ 2 , 000 in service charge each month . the manage agent , Avon Ground Rents Ltd , refuse to disclose what be include in those charge and to provide invoice . one of the charge be £ 30 , 000 for legal and professional fee , request without explanation or detail , even though leaseholder ask — reasonably — for information for over two year . leaseholder in Neville House in Westminster be live in a cladding nightmare . although Westminster City Council issue a hazard awareness notice on the building , no remedial work have be undertake because the manage agent , Estates & Management Ltd , have fail to agree with the developer , Berkeley Homes , on the term of a survey licence . as a result , the home be unsellable . the leaseholder of Blake Tower on the barbican estate be live in a building with ongoing fire safety issue . the developer , Redrow , commit to deal with those issue but have yet to undertake the necessary inspection . the tower also have build defect so serious that they have result in several flat be unliveable . the local authority , the City of London Corporation , share my concern and those of my constituent , and I understand that it be about to take action . those be just a few example of the appalling behaviour of freeholder in my constituency . I have be contact by countless leaseholder who routinely report appal practice relate to service charge , the cost of major work and the extortionate charge they face when renew their lease . when they request information or explanation , they often face a wall of silence from freeholder and their agent . " Extortionate " be probably the correct word , as what some freeholder and their accomplice — include manage agent , lawyer and accountant — be involve in be often little well than extortion . those freeholder should instead be describe as freeloader . the Bill respond to the concern raise by so many of my constituent . for example , clause 27 aim to make service charge more transparent , end the practice of demand unexplained service charge that too many freeholder engage in , often just to profit off leaseholder . the introduction of a standardised form for freeholder request service charge from their leaseholder be certainly welcome , but I would like more detail about what information will need to be disclose and how much warning freeholder will have to give leaseholder regard cost . too many of my leaseholder constituent have tell I that they choose not to take their landlord to tribunal , as they could be liable for their huge legal fee even if they win . I therefore welcome clause 34 , which respond to that concern by ensure that leaseholder will no long be liable for those cost . I also welcome the fact that the Bill overhaul previous legislation by increase the standard lease extension term for house and flat to 990 year , as well as reduce ground rent to a peppercorn upon payment of a premium . that will ensure that leaseholder can enjoy secure , ground - rent - free ownership of their own property without the hassle and expense of repeat lease extension . another game changer in the Bill be the commitment to remove marriage value . for far too long , when leaseholder want to extend their lease , they have be at the mercy of their freeholder and that freeholder ' s agent , and have face some questionable practice . the Bill make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to extend their lease or buy their freehold . it remove the requirement to pay marriage value , cap the treatment of ground rent at 0 . 1 % of the freehold value in the calculation and prescribing rate for that calculation . clause 22 will increase the non - residential limit of a block from 25 % to 50 % when it come to secure the right to manage and enfranchisement , mean that more block that be a mix of residential and commercial property will have the right to manage and buy their freehold . however , that still require 50 % of the leaseholder in a block to agree to go ahead with the right to manage , which could prove near impossible for many of my constituent , due to the unique nature of the Cities of London and Westminster . over 1 , 300 property in the City of London , and a staggering 12 , 100 in Westminster , have owner who live abroad or be own by company use central London ' s golden postcode as a place to park their cash . as such , while my constituent and I warmly welcome the Government ' s intention to support leaseholder who want to manage their block , it will prove difficult in my constituency to achieve the 50 % of signatory require . if the propose legislation be to achieve what the Government hope for constituency such as mine , I ask they to consider make the threshold more flexible — perhaps by state that 50 % of signatory should be leaseholder of apartment that be their main home , rather than an investment , or reduce the threshold for the right to manage to 35 % of leaseholder . I would welcome further discussion with the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) , on that point . I thank he for meet I and my leasehold reform working group , make up of constituent who be deal with some of the most egregious freeholder in my constituency . the 50 % threshold be discuss in some detail with the Minister at that meeting . another area of huge concern for leaseholder be the cost of major work and estate management charge . I have lose count of the number of constituent who have contact I for help regard those issue : for example , leaseholder live on the Golden Lane estate in the City be be ask to pay ten of thousand of pound extra because the freeholder , the City of London Corporation , be 20 year behind schedule . in Russell House and Churchill Gardens , which be both in Pimlico , resident be fail to secure detail on timing and cost from Westminster City Council . time and again , I receive complaint from constituent live in private and social block that , while they appreciate that they have to pay for major work and repair , they want the freeholder — whether it be a private company or a local authority — to be open and transparent about cost . I therefore welcome clause 40 of the Bill , which will provide more transparency about major work cost . similar to service charge expense , landlord will have to fill out a standardised form to demonstrate exactly how the leaseholder ' money will be spend and ensure that the work be carry out to a certain standard . I take this opportunity to thank Harry Scoffin , the founder of Free Leaseholders , for his incredible work . his support and technical knowledge have be invaluable to I and my constituent when consider the Bill . I welcome the Bill , and look forward to work with the Minister and my constituent to ensure that we end the many questionable practice of some freeholder and ensure that the leasehold and freehold system in this country be open , transparent and fair . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate — it have be fascinating to hear from member from around the Chamber . I pay tribute to the dedicated campaigner , include the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership and the National Leasehold Campaign , for their hard work up to this point . they have campaign tirelessly for justice in the broken leasehold system , and for the Government to live up to their own manifesto promise and bring this Bill before the House . I be sure they will continue to campaign . it be estimate that there be 4 . 86 million leasehold home in England . that be 4 . 86 million household stick in a system that deny people power , control or even a say over the security , safety and future of their own home . as we have see , this be a cross - party issue : member from across the House have be express the concern of their constituent for many year , long before I arrive in this place a year ago . this Bill be an opportunity to rebalance the scale in favour of leaseholder , but the question remain : will it actually do so ? unfortunately , I and many other feel disappointed by the limited state of the Bill before we . it be often say that an empty vessel make the loud noise . we have hear a lot of noise , which may reveal the reality that this Bill be somewhat hollow . not only do it not ensure that new flat will be sell as freehold , contrary to what minister have claim ; it do not even do what it say on the tin and ban the sale of new leasehold house , as the Government originally promise , because it contain no provision to end leasehold on newly build house in England and Wales . I understand that that ban be go to be bring in in Committee , but it be first promise in December 2017 by the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) . originally , the Government claim to have run out of time to put it into the Bill , but they have be plan it for six year . they repeatedly comment on how complicated leasehold law be , yet they can not include that one simple provision in the Bill . in reality , it be leaseholder who be exasperate . indeed , it appear that the Government have drop quite a lot of the Law Commission ' s recommendation . they claim that the Bill will make it easy , cheap and quick to buy the freehold or extend the lease on a property , but how do we know that without know what the prescribed rate will be ? thousand of leaseholder have be wait for this Bill to arrive , and in the meantime they remain in a state of leasehold limbo , trap by this iniquitous system . many be unable to sell and move on with their life . they be be force into a game of poker in which the stake could not be high . do leaseholder stick , and wait to buy their freehold or extend their lease — in itself , an appreciate asset — in the hope that Government promise to make it cheap actually materialise , or do they twist , and pay these faceless offshore investment company thousand of pound ? I do not know the answer , and I be not too sure the Government do either . professional valuer and leasehold solicitor be struggle to advise their client , too . without know what the prescribed rate be go to be when calculate these figure , the claim that this legislation will make it cheap to buy be unsubstantiated . also miss from the Bill be the regulation of property agent . the single big rip - off in the leasehold system be service charge , and without robust regulation of this , it will continue and leaseholder will remain at the mercy of bad manage agent . on the Opposition Benches , we be commit to implement the recommendation of Lord Best ' s working group , which be publish by the Government four long year ago and on which they have sit . the Government have yet another consultation , which leaseholder be busy complete as we speak , on reduce current ground rent for exist leaseholder . as the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) have point out , it be not quite clear what the relationship be between this Bill and that consultation , but perhaps the Minister will expand on that . after so many year of unfulfilled promise , the Government appear to have yet again fail to deliver for our constituent . as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) have say , a Labour Government will make commonhold the default tenure for all new property , as part of our commitment to reform the leasehold system fundamentally and comprehensively , by enact in full the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , commonhold and the right to manage . I be glad to see this Bill in front of we , but from listen to this debate , it be still clear that there remain a great deal of work ahead before these fine ambition become a reality . in fact , it be become increasingly clear that we need a Labour Government to truly deliver for the so many people stick in this feudal system . it be a pleasure to be speak on the second reading of this Bill , which see long - term change to improve home ownership for leaseholder and freeholder alike . as many people have say , the Bill be much need , and I be glad it be finally here . it be also a pleasure to be speak on behalf of a constituent of mine , who do not wish to be name , but who , through the numerous conversation I have have with she over the year , have enlighten I about the significant difficulty and obstacle that many leaseholder face . these difficulty include , but be not limit to , high service and administration fee , disproportionate cost when want to extend lease , manage agent display poor practice and , in particular , imbalance in the dispute mechanism . Most of these my constituent have have to deal with personally , and they have impact on she in numerous way and lead to a long , hard battle that she be still fight . I can only imagine the stress and concern that this bring to many family , and many of these point have be raise already this evening . it be through these conversation that I know how many leaseholder feel insecure and uneasy about own a home with the sector as it currently stand . leaseholder be a residential sector that make up 20 % — almost 5 million property — of the housing stock in England . as such , it be important that we strike a balance between the right of the tenant and those of the landlord , while ensure that there be more power and protection for those own a home . the Government have commit to not only increase housing supply , but ensure that more people feel protect and secure when look to rent or own their own home . that be a problem I do not need to mention in this House yet again , give the pressure of live in an idyllic coastal area such as North Norfolk , which have some of the high number of second home and holiday accommodation in the UK . I similarly welcome the Renters ( Reform ) Bill for tenant and landlord , and it be encouraging to see that extend to leasehold and freehold as well . however , as other in the Chamber have say , the Bill do not go far enough in the eye of many . it can be incredibly tiring , financially tax and stressful for leaseholder , especially when try to extend their lease or challenge poor practice . the Bill be try to make it cheap and easy for leaseholder in house and flat to extend their lease and buy the freehold , improve transparency and rebalance the legal cost regime , as well as remove barrier for leaseholder to challenge their landlord ' unreasonable charge at a tribunal . I commend the hon . gentleman for what he be say . I know the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill be for England and Wales , but it seem that there be many good thing in it that , even if the Bill do not go far enough , be to be welcome . may I , through the hon . Gentleman , ask the Minister , on the finalisation of the Bill , to share information about it with the Northern Ireland Assembly , and the Northern Ireland Department for Communities in particular , to ensure that we can take advantage of the good thing in the Bill back home ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention , and I think he be right . there be many good thing in the Bill , but it do need to go far . I will come on to some of the issue in a moment , but the particular item on which we need to go far be those raise directly by my constituent , who have write to I about this for the last couple of year . it be welcome that the Bill be here , but I already understand that it will be amend , which will be important as it go forward . as I have say , I be aware that the Government be plan amendment to take the Bill far . I say to my hon . friend the Minister that we should give ample time to consult on those amendment , particularly — for I and my constituent — those in respect of the first - tier tribunal system to ensure that all barrier be remove for leaseholder challenge their landlord . we also need to take time to discuss the benefit of bolster commonhold to ensure that leaseholder who own flat have the same protection and freedom as those who live in house . there need to be well regulation of manage agent — that have be mention already — and , as a basic requirement , the first - tier tribunal system need the jurisdiction to enforce its own order . without strengthen the Bill on that in particular , there will not be a significant impact on my constituent . we have say all along that the Bill have cross - party support , which be really positive in this place . as I have say before , it be positive to see the Government be take a lead step to help ensure that leaseholder be well protect . it be open up further opportunity for people to own their own home , but I hope it do go far so that I can support my constituent and we can really deliver the radical change we need . may I begin by echo the comment of those on both Front Benches in support all those who , for many year , have be work on leasehold reform ? as we have see from this debate , this cut across the Benches , because it be a classic example of the reality that we see in our constituency surgery day in and day out . I also pay tribute to the all - party parliamentary group on leasehold and commonhold reform for all the work it have do . I know that I have benefit from read much of its material while try — often in vain , frankly — to help constituent with freehold manager company . as we head into the festive period , I know that this would be the good possible Christmas present we could give to so many people who be struggle with the impact of what I call " leasemin " — the day - to - day admin or work they have to do to manage the fact that they have a leasehold property . in my constituency , like that of so many other hon . member , thousand of people be in that position . it be not just about the cost of renew a lease ; it be the day - to - day problem that come from be in a leasehold block . give that it be the festive period and we all want to give people good news at this time of the year , I have to tell the Minister that it do feel a bit as though my constituent have see Santa ' s sleigh fly past with all the lovely present , but all they be get be a lump of coal because so many of they be in flat that will not be affect by this legislation . may I urge he to think about what more we could do to protect those people in flat , because there have be an explosion of this , particularly in city and in area such as mine ? sadly , I be tell this evening that Cond é Nast have describe part of my constituency as one of the new hot place . I always dread it when I see that because it mean a lot more building , a lot more pressure on house price and very little support for my local resident . so many of the people who move into those property will be move into leasehold property and face these problem ; they will face that basic nightmare of think they own their home when they really do not . it be theirs but only under certain condition ; it be not their castle to do what they want with . those condition can be about whether they can have pet or a loft extension . during the pandemic , many resident could not access the energy - save proposal because that have to be do at leaseholder level and their leasehold manager be not do anything about it . there have be good freehold company as well as bad one ; there be variation . but the fundamental challenge at the heart of this legislation , and why I ask the Secretary of State about it early , be that commonhold be the only way we can genuinely give voice to people . it be a voice that deal with the " leasemin " problem — much more so than have the most efficient freehold management company possible . so I want to stress to the Minister that there be still time to put commonhold as the default tenure into this legislation , and give people the Christmas present they really deserve — the most proper protection against be exploit that we could offer . let I give the Minister some context for why I feel so strongly about this . the number of flat in my community have rise 13 % in the last eight year while the number of other type of property have remain broadly static . frankly , every time Kirstie and Phil turn up in Walthamstow , we see another tower block go up , and those tower block be leasehold ; more than half the property transaction last year be for leasehold property . this be a massive issue now for most local resident , fundamentally change the nature of my community both in term of the people who can afford to live in those property and the impact this be have on the cost of living . it be no surprise to I that I have the ninth high level of child poverty when I look at people who have buy what they think be great starter home but then find themselves saddle with charge and cost that they can not afford in order to try to stay in the area . the question for I be whether this legislation will address the challenge that they be face , and I do not see that happen , however , I do want to acknowledge there be many thing in the legislation that we all welcome , such as the shift to peppercorn rent and end escalate ground rent , which for some of my constituent have be a massive challenge , and the idea of long default lease . many people in my constituency be part of a group of leaseholder because they live in property that be build en masse . that be not a recent phenomenon . indeed , I want to talk about the Warner estate in Walthamstow . they be beautiful property , and I declare that I use to live in one myself . they be build from the 1930 to house the worker for our local industrial estate in the Lea valley . they be purpose - build flat build in two - storey terrace row with a double front door and a split back garden . on a practical basis , that mean that both resident in the property have to want to buy the freehold , which create a barrier for people and a challenge for so many of my constituent . more fundamentally , the frustration I see be that , although thousand of resident live in these property , every single one of they have a different interaction with the freehold manager . that be partly because in 2002 a situation happen which this legislation would not deal with . the Warner estate be sell and split up between Circle 33 , Final Brief and various other commercial freeholder . the Minister might say that the resident would have have the right of first refusal , but because the leasehold company be sell within parent company and child company of each other , resident do not get a look in . therefore , local resident who organise themselves into Warner estate resident group have have to deal with different company even though they live side - by - side , complicate their ability to exercise what few right they have under exist legislation . that mean that there be different price for renewal of the same length of lease , and different price for quote for have an extension and the paperwork need for that . the most egregious difference be in the insurance they be all charge . in fact , many year ago they be ask to take on terrorism insurance for live in these property . when I query that with the freehold company , I be send back the detail of somebody who have be accuse of terrorism and live in Walthamstow ; therefore , those who want to continue to live in the Warner property as leaseholder need to pay that additional premium . that be all perfectly legal and at the moment in this legislation there be no way to challenge that when a freeholder " take the mickey " — I be try to find a polite parliamentary term . I guess my leaseholder on the Warner estate be at least grateful that they do not have a lease for Bridge Court , which be under — I be sure the Minister will know the name of this management company — Y & Y Management . indicate assent . as the Minister be nod , he will know the amount of casework that small set of property , only 24 flat , have generate for I over the year . to give some example of the charge resident have face , one be give an extra £ 1 , 500 bill and another be due to be evict for be spuriously charge £ 5 , 000 by that company . it be not legally possible for those resident to withhold those payment and not lose their property , so they have to try to find the money to pay , even though it be patently obvious that that egregious company be levy the charge as punishment for their have dare to exercise their right . the only option open to they be to go to court . again , this legislation offer nothing to help support people in such a situation . it offer nothing to help support people when their freehold manager shift the leasehold around to avoid they have the right to manage or even the right to buy their own freehold out . this company decide the private communal garden could be turn into a public car park , open up the entire estate and let in huge problem with antisocial behaviour , all because it think it could make a fast buck in the London area with a car park . Y & Y then transfer the ownership of the building to Triplerose , a management company own by Israel Moskovitz , who be part of Y & Y Management . just the other week a resident come to I to point out that they have an onerous ground rent clause , which mean that their ground rent have to be review every five year against the retail price rate . that be not in the original lease but be add in . the owner of that property try to sell the flat , and they ask whether they could vary that condition , because it be stop they be able to sell it . Triplerose respond , demand an immediate non - refundable payment to provide a quote — just a quote — for what it would cost to vary that condition . it then come back with a quote of £ 700 for an admin fee , £ 1 , 400 for legal fee and £ 8 , 000 for the premium . I have some casework that sound similar to that which the hon . Lady be describe . it be at Pebble Beach in Seaton . a constituent write to say that she want to change the name on the deed and introduce her partner ' s name , and FirstPort want to charge her £ 540 just to get its approval . do the hon . Lady agree that some of the leasehold company we be talk about be charge Fortnum & Mason price for service we might associate with Trotters Independent Traders ? I think even Del Boy have limit compare with some of the people we be talk about . the Minister would probably say that in those circumstance the change be make to ground rent should resolve the situation , and he would be right , but my broad point be that those resident have no redress . at the moment , the Bill do not come with form of redress , and without redress it do not matter what right people have because they can not action they . those resident actually do go to a first - tier tribunal . they club together , take on the risk and win — and understandably so , because if someone turn the private garden into a car park , allow people into the block , that do rather undermine the concept of service charge . they have be wait three year for the compensation they be entitle to as a result of that ruling . again , nothing in the Bill would change that . but that they go to a tribunal with a company with such a track record for do these thing over and over again , and that it mean nothing for future legislation and have no preventive effect , be perhaps the big and most important message Ministers should take from this debate . the fact that people can not set precedent by win a leasehold tribunal mean that resident who live in block that be very similar go through the same fight again and again , and the same company know they can get away with it again and again . in any other legal situation there would be court precedent and opportunity for redress for our constituent . surely , one of the thing that we can do through the Bill be to change that and learn from other court , because that " leasemin " be so time - consume and stressful to so many of these people , and that be why they end up at our doorstep . nobody want to take on the risk of legal action if they can avoid it , especially if they have no guarantee that , even though the situation be patently unfair and somebody else have win a very similar case , that will make a difference . we see it every single day . we see the people with repair . I think of Hainault Court in my constituency , which have a freeholder of various name , include Freshwater , Highdorn and Daejan — it use different one all the time — where resident have spend hour of their life try to get the basic repair that they pay their service charge for . they be charge £ 10 , 000 to replace a collapse boundary wall . they get their own estimate , and it should have cost only £ 2 , 000 or £ 3 , 000 . in a community where everybody be short of cash at the end of the month and every single penny count , know that they have no alternative be a very poor place to be . I wish I could say that situation be just in the private sector , but my own council be take to court successfully by leaseholder over the charge be propose for repair and renovation in some of our local estate . again , I hope that the Minister think about the right to manage , which be difficult to do in a block with a mix of social housing and leasehold property . in London , there be an awful lot of those property , thank to right to buy . I also think of those people stick with nothing to put any impetus on their property manager to do the right thing , even though they recognise that they need to do the right thing . I think of Hoffmans Road in my constituency , which be in that patch that Cond é Nast be tell everybody to visit right now . the resident have no security on their building , because the door do not work . the property company , Fexco , tell I that it be a problem for the developer , Taylor Wimpey . Taylor Wimpey , however , think it be for the property manager to use the money from the service charge to fix it . nothing in this legislation will give those resident — my constituent — the ability to just get it sort in the way that commonhold would . we all have hundred of example . one thing that I have learn in this place over 13 year be that when we get these precious opportunity — when there be cross - party agreement that reform need to happen — we should aim for the big reform , because we might not get the opportunity ever again . nobody in this Chamber can defend freehold . nobody can defend leasehold . we can all see the value in have a system that allow our constituent to have a direct voice . goodness know , I be sure for many of we it would cut the amount of casework we have , if nothing else . it would be a lot clear what redress our resident have , before they have to go to court in the first place . if we can not have court make precedent - set ruling , can we at least look at how we can give our resident a strong voice ? for so many of they , it be the difference between a life well live and a life live in stress , wish that they have never even buy the thing that they dream of , fight for and save for long of all . I have a cladding developer that say that it have put itself out of business so that it do not have to do the cladding ; it be too small to be liable for it . those resident be still wait for redress . all those issue tell we that this be not about a big - p political issue ; it be about the day - to - day practical implementation . if we get this legislation right , we can solve so many headache for so many people . I hope the Minister will not be Scrooge . I hope he will not be the Grinch . I hope he will think about what he can do for all those people sit in those flat tonight , look at the lump of coal that this legislation represent for they . will he extend the Christmas cheer not just to those who might have be threaten by leasehold for house , but to all those in leasehold flat right now ? I know it would give everybody a very good 2024 if he do . it have be a privilege to sit here for five hour and listen to all the passionate contribution from all part of the House , with a pretty unanimous view . first , I thank Cath Williams , Katie Kendrick and Barry Kushner for their help in my constituency with the many leaseholder issue that I have have . for million of people , the housing sector be break . everywhere within it we see a huge imbalance of power , and that have have a devastating impact on the health and wellbeing of thousand of my constituent in Liverpool , West Derby , and so many people across the country , as we have hear today . that injustice be encapsulate by the frankly medieval ownership framework , which create a clear imbalance of power between leaseholder and freeholder . the scandal of leasehold must be bring to an end for the million who have buy their home but do not feel like they own it . while I welcome the promise of some of the reform in this long - overdue Bill , many of which come from the Select Committee on which I serve , I be extremely disappointed that it do not directly tackle ground rent . I suspect that the Government know exactly what exist leaseholder urgently require from they on ground rent , so I be dismay that rather than address that matter directly , they have decide to consult on it . the vested interest have definitely win again . practically every constituent I have hear from on this matter — and there have be many — tell I that they want ground rent abolish so that they can be guarantee secure , ground rent - free ownership of their property for year to come , without the stress and expense of repeat lease extension . I note that the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) agree . he speak eloquently about it today , and he say last week that ground rent on leasehold property need to be " peppercorn or zero , it ' s as simple as that . " my constituent also want to see a Bill that contain all the Law Commission ' s proposal , rather than the water - down version before we today . I be glad that our Front Bench team confirm that that be what we will do if we get into government . I be also dismay that the Government have not go so far as to abolish new leasehold on flat . that be a huge mistake . can the Minister give a reason why flat , which make up 70 % of leasehold property , will continue to be sell as leasehold , when he be elect on a specific manifesto promise to end that practice ? the Government have the opportunity in this Bill to put a stop to what the Secretary of State himself recently call the outdated " feudal system " of leasehold . instead , they appear content for new flat to continue to be buy and sell as leasehold . that be incredibly disappointing for so many people across the country . if minister be serious about do away with leasehold , they need to ban leasehold on all new flat , as well as new house . let we be clear : the only argument for retain leasehold on flat be to allow management agency and freeholder to continue to exploit leaseholder for the purpose of profit over principle , with the status quo prevail . that have not be the mood music from those on the Government Front Bench , but talk be cheap in this place , as I have find out . until leasehold be ban , homeowner will continue to be hold hostage in their own home . give the current economic situation , the delay and lack of clarity on a timetable for overdue reform be increasingly frustrating for my constituent . it be unacceptable that they continue to be subject to extortionate , unjustified charge and escalate ground rent . what be more , I be convinced that the leasehold system be not only unfair , but a genuine health and safety risk , as have be outline today , when we consider the continue delay to the vital fire safety recommendation make by the inquiry into the Grenfell Tower fire . the National Leasehold Campaign have welcome this long - overdue legislation , but consider several key item to be miss from the Bill , and I completely agree . those measure include , but be not limit to : prescribe capitalisation and deferment rate for valuer to value lease extension or freehold purchase ; abolish forfeiture , which be use against leaseholder and serve as a massive windfall for freeholder ; an online calculator for lease extension and freehold purchase ; step to progress the adoption of commonhold ; the regulation of manage agent , as we have hear about today ; and make it easy for leaseholder to have the right to manage . if the Government be truly serious about end the nightmare for leaseholder , they need to urgently revisit this legislation . I suggest that they meet the National Leasehold Campaign and the Law Commission to ensure that the key recommendation by both body be include in the Bill as it move forward . I start by declare an interest : my wife be the joint chief executive of the Law Commission , whose work I intend to cite in my remark . it be a pleasure to close this second reading debate for the Opposition , and I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have participate in it . I echo what so many other have say and add my own tribute to all the individual and organisation who have campaign for so long for reform in this area . as a number of contributor to the debate have point out , we have wait a long time for this Bill . it be just under six year ago that the then Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) , announce that the Government intend to introduce a series of measure to end unfair and abusive practice within the leasehold system , include — I quote here from a Government press release in December 2017 — " legislate to prevent the sale of new build leasehold house " . that 2017 announcement be develop three year later , during the tenure of the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) as Secretary of State . in a write ministerial statement date 11 January 2021 , he announce " seminal two - part legislation to implement leasehold and commonhold reform in this Parliament " . the first part of that two - part legislative agenda duly follow , in the form of the Leasehold Reform ( Ground Rent ) Act 2022 . although we — and in particular the shadow Minister for homelessness and building safety , my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) — press minister to use that Act to implement further reform , we nonetheless support the Government in pass it . in the 17 month since the Act come into force , successive Ministers have make all manner of extravagant promise about what the second part of the " seminal two - part legislation " would entail . indeed , the current Secretary of State , in an interview with the Sunday Times in January this year , even go so far as to declare , without qualification , that he intend to abolish the leasehold system in its entirety . leaseholder across the country , whose daily life be often make miserable by the unjust and discriminatory practice that our archaic leasehold system facilitate , take Tory Ministers at their word . they expect the second part of the promise two - part legislative agenda to live up to the weighty promise make by the Government . they have be badly let down . have wait so long and have their expectation raise so high , they be understandably disappointed at the limited Bill that we be consider today . and it be a limited Bill , and no amount of bravado from the Secretary of State can alter that fact . they be also perplexed , as we be , that legislation that the Government claim would end leasehold on newly build house in England and Wales do not actually contain any provision to end such leasehold . when the Minister respond to the debate , he will no doubt attempt to brush that criticism aside , as he do in oral question last week , on the ground that it be entirely normal for key provision of a Bill to be add in Committee . sadly , as my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) mention in open the debate , it be common practice for this Government , and this Secretary of State in particular , to significantly expand the size and scope of Bills by incorporate swathe of Government amendment in Committee and on Report in a way that limit the ability of hon . member to ensure that full scrutiny take place . however , the Minister be fool no one in attempt to suggest that the omission from the legislation of key provision be always the Government ' s intent . I remind the House , as my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) do , that the right hon . member for Bromsgrove commit the Government to legislate to prevent the sale of new build leasehold house nearly six year ago . the Government have no excuse whatsoever for fail to include in the Bill the provision necessary to enact that commitment in order for the House to consider they properly today . that they fail to do so no doubt owe more to hurried drafting , and to the wrangling between the Department and no . 10 that have take place over recent month in respect of this Bill , than to any consider design . however , for all the confusion that surround it , the legislation before we have answer one important question : how ambitious do the Government wish to be when it come to leasehold reform ? because this unambitious piece of legislation make it clear that proponent of caution and restraint have win out over those who want to lay claim to a legacy of bold reform in this area . that criticism can not simply be brush aside as carp on the part of the Opposition . the Government ' s poverty of ambition have real implication for leaseholder be routinely gouge by freeholder under the present system . take flat , which be the overwhelming majority of new leasehold property be create and the source of most of the leasehold - relate complaint that I receive from constituent . the Government ' s state solution for they , as make clear by Baroness Penn in the other place just last week , be reinvigorate commonhold , yet the Minister of State make it clear on Monday that the Government do not intend to incorporate into this Bill any provision whatsoever relate to commonhold , despite the clear commitment they make in 2021 . instead , it remain part of their " long - term approach " . in other word , the Government ' s offer to swathe of leaseholder across the country be jam tomorrow . the hon . member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , know affectionately as No . 15 on these Benches , give the game away . she say that all the work have already be do on commonhold , so it be not a matter of complexity ; it be a political choice on the Government ' s part not to introduce commonhold provision in this legislation . what be so gall about the position that minister have adopt be that there be clearly widespread support across the House for the more ambitious leasehold reform that could have be incorporate into the Bill , and this debate have demonstrate it . however , in the die day of this Government , we be where we be . while we deeply regret the Bill ' s lack of ambition , we have no intention of vote against Second Reading this evening . we support the intent of the provision in the legislation before we and the principle of the Bill as a whole . the measure it contain will give homeowner in England and Wales some great right , power and protection over their home . that be not to say that we do not have concern about the efficacy of some of they ; we do , and we will seek to strengthen the Bill in a number of way in Committee . for example , we believe that clause 12 and 13 , which be intend to protect leaseholder from cover the legal and valuation cost associate with lease extension , require tighten if we be to prevent , in practice , freeholder recover litigation and non - litigation cost . to take another example , we believe that clause 23 , which seek to replace the exist cost regime for right to manage claim , be flawed and need overhaul if it be to protect , in practice , RTM company from cost claim by landlord . we also believe that this limited Bill can be improve in way that will give future leaseholder more control over their future . for example , we think there be an iron - clothe case for add to the Bill provision that would abolish forfeiture for lease entirely and replace it with a more equitable mean for freeholder to recover cost in a dispute that do not involve a windfall . I be pleased by the signal that the Secretary of State give on that front in open the debate . to take another example , we think there be merit in add to the Bill provision that would ensure that lease on new flat include a requirement to establish and operate a resident ' management company responsible for all service charge matter and associate work , with each leaseholder give a share . we will seek to convince the Government of the merit of those and other measure when we go into Committee in the new year , and we will engage constructively with the government if they decide to introduce other bold measure into the Bill at that stage — for example , if Ministers be minded to implement the Law Commission ' s proposal on the right to manage , cover both flat and house . however , we recognise that there be only so much that we can do with the legislation before we . give the paucity of the Bill ' s ambition and the fact that it do not contain so many of the commitment that successive Secretaries of State have make , not least in relation to the promise widespread introduction of the commonhold tenure , it be clear that it will now fall to a Labour Government to fundamentally and comprehensively reform the leasehold system , include the reinvigoration of commonhold to such an extent that it will become the default and ultimately render leasehold obsolete . we be pleased that the Bill will progress today . it will provide some limited relief to leaseholder . we will seek to improve it with a view to extract from the Government any extra measure that far empower leaseholder and disturb the historical iniquity on which the present system rest . leaseholder across the country who remain at the mercy of arcane and discriminatory practice , to their detriment and to the benefit of freeholder , rightly expect nothing less . but leaseholder across the country expect so much more from the Government . we be clear that , in due course , Labour will have to finish the job and enact all the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , right to manage and commonhold in full . we be determined to do so . it be a pleasure to wind up the debate after so many useful , thoughtful and detailed contribution . in that spirit , I want to spend a little time go through some of those detail . before do so , I wish to thank , as so many other have , all the campaigner and all those who have spend so much time work in this area for so many year . I thank my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) , the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , the hon . member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , the hon . member for Liverpool , West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , and all those who intervene for the helpful comment they provide . I welcome the general and broad support for the action that be be take in the Bill . I also welcome the consensus in the House on the need for reform , which I know , as be highlight several time , have be some time come . I hope right hon . and hon . member will recognise that this be a complicated and intricate area , which be observable not least from the many example give in the debate . we now have in front of we a good proposition for make progress . our focus in the Bill be on be able to make practical progress — to make the Bill as practically useful as it can be — and then to have the great impact that it can have . some , include hon . member tonight , have say that it do not go far enough ; other have say that we should return to first principle and seek to build the whole system again . I be sure that those hon . member will make their case in Committee if they be part of it , and on Report and in subsequent stage . the Government seek to have a proposition on which can be build ; one that be practical , achievable and make a difference . the art of politic be about be able to make progress , and we think that the Bill will make a significant difference to people ' s life . let I turn to some comment make in the debate . I pay tribute to the long - stand work of the Father of the House , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West . he raise a number of point , which we will go through in more detail in Committee , but I want to highlight his point on build safety with regard to sub - 11 metre property . a number of member make similar comment . we have a process in place , so if colleague have concern about fire remediation issue in sub - 11 metre property , they should ensure that they get the appropriate fire assessment need in all building . if substantial work be need to those property , they can be raise with the Department , which have commit at this Dispatch Box and have execute commitment to look into those issue in more detail . I pay tribute to the work of the Select Committee , chair by my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Sheffield South East . I particularly enjoy our interaction on this issue because it give I , like he , the opportunity repeatedly to say as a constituency MP how outraged I be about Coppen Estates ' s consistent failure to respond . that be a hallmark of a small cohort of actor in this area , which consistently and flagrantly ignore reality and their ability to make a difference to our resident ' life . Coppen Estates be a good example of such actor , but there be many other . I thank the Minister for respond to that point . will he look at strengthen the Bill to stop company like Coppen Estates avoid the legislation ? strengthen the legislation be fine , and so be change the way that enfranchisement fee be calculate so that people get a well deal , but in the end , the freeholder have to respond , which Coppen Estates refuse to do . my constituent in the Flockton estate in Sheffield have try and fail for year to get a response . how will the legislation be strengthen to ensure that such company respond ? I be very happy to look at specific issue in Committee . as the Secretary of State highlight in his opening speech , if there be area where we can improve the Bill , we will be happy to do so . I can not make promise , but we be happy to look at they . the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Sheffield , my constituent in Dronfield and constituent all across the country have similar issue to those with Coppen Estates , so I hope we will be able to make progress . the hon . Gentleman , the hon . member for Battersea and other rightly talk about leaseholder not know what they be pay for . a few week ago , I have the privilege of take part in a two - hour discussion with one of the well estate manager about an issue in my constituency in Hunloke Grove . they be willing to go into detail , talk about the issue , work through and be transparent on their fee in a way that so many other manage agent be not . the importance of that come home to I in that discussion . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch should rightly take all the credit for where we be today . I be surf on all her work over many month to get the Bill ready . she deserve a huge amount of credit for that . she be an exceptional Housing Minister and have make some extremely constructive comment today , which we will look at along with the similar comment from my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk . I can confirm that our intention be that there will be sufficient time to be clear on ground rent . as my hon . friend the Member for Redditch rightly say , it be so important that we secure a property - own democracy for the next generation . I thank the right hon . member for East Ham for make a series of important point , which I be happy to look at . the Government be happy to see whether they be possible . he make a specific point about asbestos , which we will take away and review with the detail it deserve . I look forward to the visit to Barrier Point , which I want to make follow his correspondence . it be important that , on build safety , we look at not just the overall macro picture but individual circumstance , to see whether we can learn anything . I be also grateful to the right hon . member for give I this opportunity to make the point about insurance from the Dispatch Box . I be as keen as he to see progress on insurance . I have meet representative of the insurance sector on a very regular basis in the year that I have be in post . I hope that they will hold to their intention . they have tell we that they will launch the scheme , and we be keen to see it . the Secretary of State ' s further meeting this week will , I hope , enable progress . my hon . friend the Member for Dartford make extremely important point on estate management . he have continually articulate the challenge on a regular basis , and have be a champion on this matter . he rightly speak of the outrage he have see in his constituency . it be important that we respond to that as good we can . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East for highlight a number of the important change that be come . he be right that our objective be to squeeze out the bad practice in the sector . there be honourable people out there and there be honourable way in which it be do , but where bad practice occur it give the entire sector a bad name . we will legislate and regulate to remove it in a proportionate way . my hon . Friend also highlight an example of a property that have not yet make progress on remediation , and similar example be give by the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth and for Walthamstow and my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . we can see significant progress . we have only recently produce a new detailed set of datum cover all the fund that be open on build safety . I hope hon . member will see the progress that have be make , but we recognise that there be more to do . the hon . member for Walthamstow be absolutely right that there be a number of name that pop up repeatedly — for example Y & Y Management and E & M . there be many other and they should be on notice that they need to change their practice , because they be not acceptable . the Minister touch on build safety . in the briefing note on the Bill that accompany the King ' s Speech , under the head " improve leaseholder ' consumer right " , reference be make to : " build on the legislation bring forward by the Building Safety Act 2022 " . be it the Government ' s intention to incorporate build safety measure in the Bill ? we be look at what may be possible . we recognise that , while the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have bring forward a very solid prospectus , tweak can always be make . we see real momentum in this area . I know that that be not good enough for building that have not yet have their remediation or for leaseholder who be hugely frustrate by the inability or unwillingness of freeholder to make progress , but we have make significant change and step forward in the last year or so , and we be commit to do more in the come month . I be grateful to the hon . member for North Shropshire for meet I early to talk about specific point about asset . we will look at those point and come back to she . I can confirm to my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills that we intend to tackle ground rent . I be grateful to she for highlight exception in leasehold house . we intend that to be a very narrow element . she seek an example . one example I can give be that of National Trust land where freehold can not be sell and a small number of leasehold home may therefore be require . the hon . member for Liverpool , West Derby talk about his disappointment with , I believe , the consultation on ground rent . we must consult on that because we must ensure that we be listen and that we take a decision base on the broad range of evidence in front of we , to ensure that it be legally sound when the decision be make . he encourage I to speak to the Law Commission . I can tell he that I have speak to the Law Commission probably more regularly than any other external organisation outside the Department in the past three or four week . the hon . member for Walthamstow , for Battersea and for Brentford and Isleworth be seek to push a narrative — if I may say that very gently to they , with the good of intention — that this be not a significant intervention with regard to flat . I gently encourage they to continue to engage with the Bill . they will see long and cheap extension , easy enfranchisement , service charge transparency , easy redress , lease extension , standard form , annual report and many , many other significant measure that will have salience for those live in flat . before I conclude , I would like to thank the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) for his constructive comment . I look forward to meet he in Committee to talk about they more . while I may disappoint the right hon . member for East Ham , I would like to turn to some of the comment make from the Opposition Front Bench . the right hon . member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , despite acknowledge that the Government have bring forward important legislation , despite confirm that Labour would not be oppose it and despite advance the most enthusiastic compliment I have ever hear she give a Conservative — that the Secretary of State have reach the lofty height of be a " functional cog " ; heavy praise indeed ! — show that , as ever , she deal in rhetoric rather than reality , and in politic rather than policy . she call the Bill " empty " . this be a Bill with 65 clause , eight schedule and 133 page , and there be 67 page of explanatory note . give its comprehensive reform of enfranchisement and extension , its comprehensive reform of redress , and its comprehensive reform of service charge , estate management and valuation , that be a funny definition of " empty " . I ask the Minister to answer this question in sum up the debate . will he undertake to include the outcome of the consultation that be currently take place , particularly that on ground rent , in the amendment that the Government table in Committee ? that be our intention , yes . we have have a good debate today , which I hope — indeed , I know — will start the passage of this important Bill into law and lead to a well system for everyone in the long term . this be an outcome that be fundamentally conservative because , fundamentally , the Bill be about empower people , about level the playing field where it have be distort , about rein in those who be try to rent - seek for no purpose at the expense of those who just want to get on with live their life , and about give people the security of home ownership — proper home ownership , for the long term — so that they can build their life and build their future . I hope that all member will join the Government in support the Bill tonight , and I look forward to further constructive conversation during its future stage . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 1 February 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , it be expedient to authorise the charging of fee under or by virtue of the Act . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business without Debate Committees we now come to the motion for appointment to Select Committees . unless there be any challenge — and I have be notify of none — I propose , with the leave of the House , to take they all together . order , Business and Trade that Bim Afolami be discharge from the Business and Trade Committee and Julie Marson be add . defence that Jesse Norman be add to the Defence Committee . Energy Security and Net Zero that Mark Jenkinson be discharge from the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee and Derek Thomas be add . Foreign Affairs that Saqib Bhatti be discharge from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranil Jayawardena be add . Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) that Sir Mike Penning be discharge from the Holocaust Memorial Bill ( Select Committee ) and John Stevenson be add . level up , Housing and Communities that Paul Holmes be discharge from the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and Tom Hunt be add . Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy that Tom Tugendhat be discharge from the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy and Sarah Atherton be add . procedure that Aaron Bell be discharge from the Procedure Committee and Nickie Aiken be add . public Accounts that Ashley Dalton , Jill Mortimer and Nick Smith be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Paula Barker , Sarah Owen and Jeremy Quin be add . science , Innovation and Technology that Aaron Bell be discharge from the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and Dr James Davies be add . Treasury that Sir James Duddridge and Dame Andrea Leadsom be discharge from the Treasury Committee and Dr Th é r è se Coffey and Stephen Hammond be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Dover Fastrack I rise to present a petition submit by my constituent in Dover and Deal who be concern by the Dover Fastrack proposal . the petition have attract about 700 signature , lead by those of Father Leo Illah and parishioner from St Paul ' s Roman Catholic Church in Maison Dieu Road , and be also support by the diocesan bishop , the right reverend Paul hendrick . this be a poorly consider proposal that will add to traffic congestion , disadvantage old and disabled people , damage local business and shop in the town of Dover , and harm access to the church , include access for wedding and funeral and access to the world - renowne Pilgrims way . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore … urge the Government to call on Dover District Council and Kent County Council to re - think the plan Pencester Road Fastrack Proposals . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Dover and Deal , declare that the proposal to route Dover Fastrack along Pencester Road and Maison Dieu Road in Dover will pose a significant risk to pedestrian safety , increase traffic congestion and jeopardise the invaluable cultural and heritage contribution of St . Paul ' s Catholic Church to the area of Dover . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons urge the Government to call on Dover District Council and Kent County Council to re - think the plan Pencester Road Fastrack Proposals . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002887 ] housing availability : Ilfracombe Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) 8 . 53 pm I be very proud to be Ilfracombe ' s MP . it be a tight - knit resilient community of 12 , 000 , and so remote that it have to be self - sufficient . it be 12 mile from Barnstaple , the major town in northern Devon , and almost 60 mile from Devon ' s county town , the city of Exeter . at the start of the pandemic , it make national news by be the first community to fully develop a delivery and support network across the town , and the community continue to look after its own and all those who visit . ilfracombe be both rural and coastal , with a stunning harbour , a hardy fishing fleet and its own lifeboat station reflect the treacherous coastline and rugged cliff . it be one of those seaside town that be popular with the Victorians but then get cut off with the closure of the train line in the ' 70 . it have suffer from under - investment ever since . tourism remain the no . 1 industry of the town . this create its own challenge , with many small business choose not to register for vat and closing at the £ 85 , 000 threshold , leave swathe of employee in seasonal work and on out - of - season benefit . however , Ilfracombe be not a low - wage economy ; it be a low - skill economy . some 20 % of over - 16s have no qualification at all , often lead big employer in the town to recruit internationally and break down job into those that match the skill . we see far too many of our bright youngster head off to university , never to return . the south - west suffer from a youth exodus , with the high number of 16 to 24 - year - old and the high number of student leave of any region . that have implication for those leave behind . school attainment gap in the south - west between poor pupil and the rest be the large of all english region at the end of both primary and secondary school , and that be not to mention the recruitment , retention and training challenge that exist for isolated and remote school and the low level of school funding and teacher pay . Ilfracombe have the second big catchment of any secondary school in the country , with absenteeism run at 10 % , which be a similar number to the percentage of people in Ilfracombe who have never work and will never work at all . deprivation run deep in Ilfracombe . as foreign holiday become the norm , old hotel become home in multiple occupation . Ilfracombe even feature in the ' 80 comedy show " Bread " as somewhere to move to , and some of those old hotel become care setting for those with addiction and no housing elsewhere in the country to be move to . we have ward in Ilfracombe where over a quarter of the population be register disabled under the term of the Equality Act 2010 . the town be still litter with derelict building and have 20 large building unoccupied . they be fall down and intermittently one be burn to the ground . surely there must be more that can be do to tackle these derelict building and bring they back into use . Ilfracombe have the low healthy life expectancy of any rural town in the country , and a life expectancy over a decade below that of the healthy town in Devon . there be not big queue for healthcare in Ilfracombe . People often do not even present , despite lifestyle choice contribute to poor health . there be an acceptance that thing be good enough , but they be not . I have attend more meeting on the issue of deprivation and health inequality in Ilfracombe than I care to list . People care deeply about the issue in the town but solution be hard to come by , which be why I have come to the Chamber to ask the Minister and his Department to help . we be elect on a manifesto of level up , and on any metric whatsoever Ilfracombe clearly need to be level up , yet the resource to tackle the root cause of the problem be not forthcoming . have see endless piece of analysis , I know that the primary issue be shockingly poor housing . some 37 % of the population in Ilfracombe rent , and give that we have no university student , that be staggeringly high . Post pandemic , house price have jump by 53 % , which be one of the high rate in the country . that be understandable , as it be a beautiful place to live , but suffice it to say that wage have not increase by the same level . we have lose almost two third of long - term rental , mostly to short - term holiday let , and far too many of the remain rental property be substandard . the council be apparently powerless to intervene unless there be something like a fire , and the picture that I have circulate to the Department of the condition that family be live in be unacceptable . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this debate forward ; I speak to she beforehand and I understand the issue clearly . she have outline the issue of tourism , fishing and youth unemployment in north Devon , and now the issue of housing . as a representative of the small harbour village of Portavogie in my constituency of Strangford , I fully understand the pressure of find affordable housing in these little community . do she not agree that social housing in rural community must be a priority to enable people to remain with the family support that they have and the friendship they have make over the year ? I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I will talk about affordable housing and , as he represent a coastal constituency , I be sure he will recognise what I be about to say . storm batter the North Devon coastline at this time of year , and old hotel shabbily convert into flat , some with no insulation , be take the element week after week and should be condemn , but the last thing we need be even more derelict building that no one will do anything with . because Ilfracombe be only a small part of North Devon , the metric use to determine where the first round of levelling - up funding be spend mean that we be in the low category , and our tiny district council do not have lot of potential bid ready to go for Ilfracombe . a strong bid be submit , although it be ultimately unsuccessful , but we all know it be not go to level up Ilfracombe ; it be just to secure some funding . at the time , a senior council officer raise the issue of housing and what be really need , but the levelling - up fund be all about transport and tourism , not housing . I be grateful to the new chief executive of Devon County Council who , arrive this spring from the remote and rural highland , see the deprivation in my constituency , and she be in my office week after her appointment to ask what be go on with Ilfracombe . since her arrival and renew focus , more councillor and council officer than ever before have head north of Tiverton and make it up to Ilfracombe to see the problem . I be the only MP on the Devon Housing Commission , which have also visit . it be hard to reconcile the fact that we be not worthy of level up , when we have 50 family look at their second Christmas in a holiday park because there be not a single home available for they in northern Devon . indeed , not a single affordable home have be build in Ilfracombe since 2006 . the first be now under construction but , as another district council leader say during the presentation of these fact to the Devon Housing Commission , " be this not a dereliction of duty ? " indeed it be . although our tiny district council know that there be a problem , it do not have the resource to deliver a solution . at the end of the pandemic , my county council tell I that my constituency be home to five of the 10 most deprive ward in all of Devon . my question be , " what be you go to do ? " it be only with the new chief executive ' s arrival that a proposal have be forthcoming . six cost proposal , with different element to tackle housing and skill , be with the Department . I be grateful to the previous Levelling - up Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , for visit Ilfracombe and meet the council , and I be grateful for the engagement of the current Levelling - up Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) . I very much hope that the promise meeting will deliver a plan as , quite simply , North Devon and Ilfracombe do not have the resource to resolve the housing situation on their own . my frustration at the multiple tier of local government , which have result in so much talk and so little delivery , be great . we simply have to tackle some of the housing issue in the town before we can tackle the other . I be delighted that a family hub for the town will be forthcoming . on average , because Devon County Council cover a huge area , many thing in Devon look fine , or at least not bad , which hide pocket of deep deprivation in place like Ilfracombe , and we have miss out on far too many scheme and pot of money because the average look fine but do not take into account the variance across the county . will the new devolution deal deliver anything to Ilfracombe ? unfortunately , time and again , we see money go to urban centre and not reach small community that be equally in need . Liberal Democrat - run North Devon District Council be apparently able to deliver only one project at a time . I have the pleasure of spending Friday morning with the council leader , who explain why the bus station in Barnstaple could not be upgrade because the council be too busy with the future high street project to tackle a second issue . I have confidence in the council officer , if not the political leadership , to understand what need to be do , but there be a resource issue of both people and finance . if we need to attract external funding to tackle some of these housing challenge , we do not have the experience of manage such project well . we desperately need responsible social landlord to take on some of the property in Ilfracombe , bring they up to standard and maintain they . again , when will there be progress on the registration scheme for short - term rental ? will the Minister ask the Treasury to level up the tax inequality between long - term and short - term rental to attract long - term landlord back to the market ? all that happen at present be that we seem to get more retirement property , second home and property be snap up as holiday let . as of yesterday , there be 19 rental property in Ilfracombe be advertise on Rightmove and 803 on Airbnb . the Minister have tell I that there be not a fund that my council ' s bid can be accept into at this time , but give that deep dive have be do into other seaside location that replicate Ilfracombe ' s position , just on a far big scale , be there really no opportunity to look hard at these small coastal community and the challenge they face ? my father be head of a large coastal comprehensive in the middle of a council estate back in the 1980 , and the issue he face there be identical to the one I face in North Devon when I retrain to teach , just ahead of my election to this place . we have to tackle social mobility and educational outcome , but when people can not afford to stay in their community because of a lack of affordable housing , and business have no incentive to grow because of the VAT tax threshold , it be hard to drive aspiration as a concept . the frustration that the Government be spend money overseas to house people who come to our shore illegally when we can not house our own be immense . all I ask be that some resource be give to tackle what be shocking statistic at any level and leave Ilfracombe as the third most deprive rural town anywhere in the country . we know from so many piece of research the stat on coastal community , and we must seek to level up some of these small community that be not big enough to stand out in national statistic . level up be suppose to reach into all community , not just big town and city . I be very proud of the Ilfracombe community . it be have fantastic church and community leader who work tirelessly to try to tackle the issue the town face and look after their population . however , give the long - term , intergenerational nature of the issue , and the level of investment need , we do need some help . now that we have a plan to tackle issue , we be a step far forward than we be when I first raise the issue of Ilfracombe in this place . I see no point in try to make political point out of this ; for almost 20 year , nothing have be do , by council of all different colour , to tackle the problem . the Government have highlight the need to level up , and I very much want the next generation to be able to afford to stay and work in the high - tech green industry that we hope will be come ashore along our coast . I very much hope that the Minister will be able to provide some hope that we may at last be able to tackle some of the root cause of the deprivation Ilfracombe suffer and , in particular , tackle its housing supply . let I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) for the opportunity to debate these important issue , as it be vital that member have the opportunity to discuss they . make sure that there be viable , aspirant and successful town all across the country be a hugely important part of our job , one that motivate I to come to this place on behalf of North East Derbyshire . I know that it clearly motivate my hon . friend to do the same for North Devon . department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities official be pleased to hold a recent roundtable in Ilfracombe , which she mention . official and agency have a productive discussion about some of the opportunity and challenge that she have rightly highlight , and some of the point about support . I also recognise she for the important work that she do with the Devon Housing Commission , on which , as she say , she serve , and I be look forward to see the result of that work . I want to spend 30 second just champion she in general , as she be one of the most diligent member of this House . she be so utterly engage in the issue that be important to her constituent and it be so important that that be the case . I know that North Devon resident will be very grateful for all the work she do . obviously , housing be vital for the Government ' s long - term plan for economic recovery . in July , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) set out a long - term plan for housing , to usher in a new era of regeneration and housing delivery all across England . we be talk not only about more house , but house in the right place that be absolutely seek to service and support local demand . we be on track to achieve our manifesto commitment to deliver more than 1 million home over the course of this Parliament . since April 2010 , more than 2 million home have be deliver , and four of the high annual period for housing supply in the past 30 year have come in the past half decade or so . it be absolutely vital that we build more house , but we need to build they in the right place and in a way that respond to local demand , as my hon . friend have say . we will continue to work with Homes England . I have already meet my hon . friend a number of time to discuss the matter , but my offer to work in partnership with her remain , so we can see what we can do for North Devon in the long term , as well as constituency around the country . my hon . friend be right to highlight the importance of aspiration , which we know can be a challenge in some of our small town . we must ensure that we be not just give people thing , as important as they be — a lot of the discussion about level up have be about thing . we need to give they the tool to go and change their life for the well . if we can inculcate aspiration into our kid as they go through school and into our community as people build their life and business , and if we can ensure aspiration be at the core of everything we do , that be a fundamentally conservative prospectus upon which to make our community even strong . it be also the most successful way to make our community strong in the long term . the new funding announce in the autumn statement through the levelling - up partnership , the further investment zone , the new investment opportunity fund and other funding for transformative project across the country will make a real difference in area where funding have be agree and where it will come in the month ahead . Ilfracombe have benefit from Government funding to support increase housing and infrastructure , include the brownfield land release fund , which will provide 15 self - build and custom - build property in Bicclescombe , Devon . in addition , £ 6 . 5 million from the housing infrastructure fund have be make available for the Ilfracombe southern extension . however , I take my hon . friend ' s point that much more need to be do and I be happy to work with she on that . we remain committed to create a housing system that work , include increase first - time buyer in every single region across the country . we be operate a range of scheme , include first home , share ownership and mortgage guarantee scheme , all of which aim to increase the supply of low - deposit mortgage and the availability of new housing , and to stimulate economic growth . we know that first - time buyer can often struggle to afford to buy a home in the area where they live and work . I have speak to my hon . friend previously about those challenge in North Devon . key worker can find themselves unable to live in the community they serve , as my hon . Friend highlight . initiative such as the first home scheme , while not perfect , allow local exemption to be set under key worker criterion . I hope that communitie up and down the land that be face those challenge be able to use those scheme , but we recognise that there be always a long conversation to have on that issue . my hon . friend be right to raise the basic point of fairness . this week , we will be talk about a number of other issue in this place ; tomorrow , we will be talk about those who come to our shore illegally . she be right to highlight the view of her constituent that there have to be basic fairness with people come to this country , so that we can make the case that the work we do on level up work for the long term . I hope we can make progress on that specific and broad point tomorrow . my hon . friend and I also speak recently about community land trust as a way to support housing supply that meet the need of the local community . the community - lead approach to house building involve community - base group take responsibility for drive forward local house building scheme . that support , and the close involvement of local community , enable the securing of planning permission and the delivery of housing on site . I hope that that be a possibility in North Devon in the future . we have already speak several time since I be appoint as Housing Minister a few week ago about the importance of get clarity for my hon . friend and other colleague in Devon , Cornwall and elsewhere regard short - term let . in a debate in Westminster Hall a number of week ago , we talk about the importance of tourism for area such as North Devon , and the importance of clarity about what be happen with regard to short - term let . while I be still unable to give a specific timetable , my hon . friend and her colleague in the south - west have impress upon we all in Government the urgency of provide clarity about both the register and what we intend to do with the planning use class . we will try to move forward on that as quickly as we can , and give clarity to community such as North Devon as soon as possible . I thank my hon . friend for prompt this important debate and give we the opportunity , even in a small way , to discuss Ilfracombe — both the opportunity and the challenge — and to recognise that there be much more conversation to be have outside this Chamber with regard to its future . place such as Ilfracombe , just like place such as North East Derbyshire , which I have the privilege to represent , have hugely bright future if we can give community the tool to get on and make those community as aspirational as they can be . we need to ensure that Government support work for the long term , and continue the very good conversation that my hon . friend have start and on which she be at the forefront , to ensure that she be champion place such as North Devon for the long term . question put and agree to . House adjourn .