business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 1 July ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . Committee of Selection Ordered , that Vicky Foxcroft be discharge from the Committee of Selection and Christian Wakeford be add . — ( Sir Mark Tami . ) Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to support the provision of medical aid in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help ensure that humanitarian aid be deliver to Gaza . Israel must immediately allow rapid and unhindered aid into Gaza . the Foreign Secretary raise the humanitarian situation with israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar on Sunday . we recently announce £ 4 million of further UK humanitarian support for Gazans , and we will continue to urge Israel to lift restriction on humanitarian aid to allow the UN and other aid organisation to operate safely and independently . this morning I hear from my medical colleague , Dr Rebecca Inglis , of Healthcare Workers Watch , that a gp in Gaza be kill by israeli soldier — shoot in the head , Mr Speaker . he be just one of 1 , 200 healthcare worker who have be murder by israeli force . countless other have be unlawfully detain and torture . Israel be deliberately destroy the palestinian healthcare system . will the Minister please raise these issue with his israeli counterpart ? I can confirm that I have raise these issue with my israeli counterpart . it be appal that hundred of healthcare worker have reportedly be kill since the start of the conflict . we continue to urge the israeli authority to ensure that incident be investigate transparently and that those responsible be hold to account and lesson learn . Healthcare worker , premise and facility must be protect , allow medical staff to do their work . More than 450 Palestinians have be kill in recent week as israeli force have open fire on those attempt to collect aid from the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation . the people of Gaza not only face daily risk from bomb and bullet , but the ever - present danger of man - make drought and famine . will the Government commit to use all resource at their disposal , include further sanction and an arm embargo to ensure that aid be deliver to Gaza under the auspex of the UN and other suitably qualified body ? the killing of civilian at aid distribution centre in Gaza be horrify . Israel must fulfil its obligation under international law to ensure unhindered humanitarian assistance . I will not speculate about future sanction or arm embargo , but we continue to engage with our partner and will not hesitate to take further action if the Government of Israel do not change course . Mussa Abu Darabi be just one of hundred of Palestinians who have be kill try to access food from the Gaza Humanitarian Foundation in recent week . fifteen international human right organisation have now warn that the GHF may face legal consequence for " aid and abetting , or otherwise be complicit , in crime under international law , include war crime , crime against humanity , or genocide . " will the Minister join I in condemn the murder of desperate and starve people ? what assessment do he make of the GHF ' s legality ? no one should risk death or injury to feed their family . as I say in this House on 4 June , Israel ' s aid delivery measure be inhumane . we will not support any mechanism that endanger civilian . we have continually call on Israel , include most recently on Sunday , immediately to allow the UN and aid partner to safely deliver all type of aid at scale . on three occasion in answer this question the Minister have say that " Israel must " . what will he do if Israel do not ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , this Government have take a series of action in response to development in Gaza . we will continue to take such action until the situation change . what be the Government ' s assessment of how effectively medical aid can be deliver to those in need in Gaza , include the remain israeli hostage ? aid can be deliver effectively into Gaza . there be establish mechanism through the United Nations and its partner , and we want to see those mechanism in place . the hon . Gentleman raise the vital question of ensure that the hostage themselves get sufficient access to food . both my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and I have hear directly from Eli Sharabi , a release hostage , who have talk about Hamas ' s deprivation of food from the hostage . that must stop , and they must immediately release all hostage . my constituent have watch in horror as israeli force have reportedly kill more than 400 Palestinians and injure thousand more at aid distribution centre in Gaza . over the weekend , dozen more Palestinians be kill while try to access humanitarian aid . why be the Government still permit the transfer of F - 35 component to Israel through the international pool , know that these aircraft may be use in operation cause mass civilian casualty ? we have set out the reason why the Government have have to take special measure to ensure that the F - 35 programme continue to operate , which include our continue role in the global spare pool in the United States . however , I agree with the sentiment of the hon . Lady ' s constituent ; the death around aid distribution centre be clearly horrify , and there need to be a full investigation and action take . vitally , aid must get into Gaza at the scale require and from enough distribution centre in order to avoid the horrifying scene that we have see . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . we must not forget Gaza . despite the eye of the world now be turn to the Iran - Israel war , it be important that we continue to remember the suffering of the Gazans and continue to move on it . as a witness from M é decin Sans Fronti è re say to my Committee , there be " lethal chaos " in Gaza . there be one read - across from the Iran - Israel war that I think we should learn from : the clear closeness between Israel and America , and the fact that America can influence Israel . I ask the Minister to ensure that we continue to say in our conversation with the Americans not to give up on Gaza , and to use their influence to ensure that the Israelis do the right thing . there must be peace and the hostage must come home . this government will not give up on Gaza . I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary have raise Gaza in his engagement with the US . I have not forget about Gaza , and be speak to palestinian counterpart just last night . the situation in Gaza will remain a top priority for this Government . Israel deal with Hamas and Hezbollah be to be welcome , but the continue blockage on medical and humanitarian aid go into Gaza be not welcome . as we continue to talk , child continue to die . I hope that the Foreign Secretary will make it very clear that the continuation of child die every single day be unacceptable , and that he will stand up to the White House , the State Department and the Pentagon and to the Knesset and the current israeli Government of Netanyahu . these death be just go on and on and on . how many more child need to die before something change ? as I have say , the Foreign Secretary have raise these issue with both his american and israeli counterpart , and I have do the same . we remain steely in our focus on the situation in Gaza , include the tragic scene around the deprivation of aid and the impact that be have on civilian right across the strip , include child . we be try to take every measure we can to reduce that suffering . that include aid where it can be bring in ; aid into the region , where that be the most appropriate way to reach the medically vulnerable ; and in a few small case ensure that Gazan child can access medical assistance here . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the humanitarian situation in Gaza simply can not continue . we have spend a lot of time in this House discuss the extent of that situation and the fact that food and essential supply be not get through to support innocent victim . what proposal have the Minister put to Israel about the opening of specific crossing point for aid delivery into Gaza ? will he give his assessment of why the israeli Government may not be listen to this country and our Government on this particular issue ? the disagreement that the israeli Government have be not simply with the british Government ; it be with a wide range of their partner . as the right hon . Lady be aware , we sign a statement with 26 partner about the humanitarian situation . we make a leader - level statement with France and Canada . there be wide disagreement with the approach that the israeli Government be take in relation to aid distribution . at the weekend , the Foreign Secretary discuss these matter , include entry point , with the Foreign Minister of Israel . we would like to see the israeli Government shift position . it be clear , for the reason that she say , that that shift must come urgently . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on Thursday , I receive a message from Mohammed , an NHS doctor with family in Gaza . he write : " my 16 - year - old nephew be miss for five day after head out to retrieve humanitarian aid at a location announce by israeli force . we find he dead yesterday ; his body mutilate , eat by stray dog . he die alone . no one could reach he or other like he in time . he be only a boy who desperately want to get food for his starve family . " on 10 June , the Minister sanction two israeli Ministers who advocate for the blockade of Gaza , note that that would not remove Hamas or ensure that the hostage be release . but nothing have change . what further step be the Government take today to signal to the Government of Israel that the UK will not stand idly by while child in Gaza be starve , deny medicine or kill as they seek food for their family ? the hon . gentleman share with the House a heartbreaking story . I know that it be one of thousand of such story about life lose in Gaza . the situation be intolerable , and we will continue to take further action . as I have say , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary raise this matter with the Foreign Minister on Sunday . clearly , there have be significant development in the middle east since 10 June . this be now the time for Israel to implement a ceasefire and to allow aid in ; for Hamas to release hostage ; and for we to try to draw a line under the horrifying suffering of Mohammed and many other like he . Security Action for Europe Initiative what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the UK ' s involvement in the Security Action for Europe initiative . this government be strengthen tie with our european ally to deliver mutual benefit for our prosperity and security . as the strategic defence review lay out , we need a resilient and competitive european defence industrial base to deliver the capability that we need at speed and scale . with that UK - EU security and defence partnership now agree , secure the UK ' s swift participation in Security Action for Europe be a priority for the Government , and , of course , these partnership complement and reinforce NATO ' s role as the cornerstone of Euro - atlantic security . in an increasingly unstable world , work with our european ally on defence and weapon production be vital for our security and our economy . if investment be need , provide it should not stand in the way of the opportunity to support UK defence manufacturer , enable joint research and development and promote Britain ' s strategic interest on the global stage . what recent discussion have the Minister have with his european counterpart about ensure that the UK have access to the Security Action for Europe fund ? I have be have regular conversation , as have the Foreign Secretary and colleague across the Ministry of Defence and the Cabinet Office . I be in Poland just last week discuss with our polish ally our important collaboration . the week before that , I be in Rome with the Weimar + group . these be all active and ongoing conversation and , as the hon . Member say , they be absolutely crucial at a time of such geopolitical uncertainty . gavi : fund how much fund his Department plan to provide to Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance for the 2026 to 2030 period . we be proud to be found partner of Gavi . we have invest more than £ 5 billion since 2000 help to immunise more than 1 billion child . Gavi have enjoy good cross - party support in this House and I be look forward to update the House accordingly . I welcome what the Foreign Secretary have say , and I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s repeat assurance that vaccination remain an international development priority . ahead of tomorrow ' s high - level pledge summit , do the Foreign Secretary agree that the UK must continue to make a significant contribution to Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance to ensure that million of child be protect from some of the world ' s deadly yet treatable disease , such as malaria ? I be not go to anticipate the announcement that we may make tomorrow , but I be hugely grateful for the hon . Gentleman raise this issue . we be a proud found member of the Global Fund and be very pleased to co - host its eighth replenishment alongside South Africa . I look forward to make an announcement very shortly . frozen russian Assets what recent step his Department have take to facilitate the seizure of frozen russian asset . we have renew engagement with our ally to pursue all lawful avenue to make Russia pay for Putin ' s illegal war on Ukraine . I have engage with G7 Foreign Ministers on this , and I look forward to speak to partner at the NATO Hague summit later on today . I see for myself the impact of Russia ' s barbarism in Kyiv and Chernihiv last month , and I hear directly from some of the brave Ukrainians who have be subject to war crime in Yahidne . there be a lot go on in the world at the moment , but what assurance can the Foreign Secretary give the House and those Ukrainians wait to be able to go home that he be strain every sinew so that Russia pay for its crime and war crime ? our support be iron - clothe . the hon . Lady will have see our continue package of sanction on Russia and will recognise that this issue will be central to our discussion at NATO later on today and tomorrow . whether it be at the G7 , NATO or Weimar + , the UK continue to lead on this critical issue , not just for Ukraine but for european security . will the Foreign Secretary consider further sanction on the russian regime for the force deportation of ukrainian child ? in recent peace talk , the russian delegation propose an exchange of prisoner of war for ukrainian child who have be steal from their home , thereby equate combatant with child , who receive special protect status under international law . be that not horrific ? do the Foreign Secretary share my concern that 53 , 000 ukrainian child be expect to attend " summer camp " in Russia this summer , from which they be unlikely to return to their home ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for continue to prosecute this issue and for raise it at every opportunity . it be a heinous crime . we have already sanction some of the individual who lie behind it . I will not comment on future sanction , but we be , of course , keep this under full consideration . it will be a topic of discussion with both Ukrainian Foreign Ministers and NATO Ministers later today . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . Ukraine have bravely fight back Putin ' s illegal invasion , and that be with our undoubted support . will the Foreign Secretary give an update on what action be under way to release the billion of pound of frozen russian asset ? on the subject of russian threat and malign influence , he will be alarmed to know that the political opposition leader in Georgia have be arrest and imprison this week . what step be the Government take in response , and will further sanction be consider to curtail Putin ' s absolute abuse of democracy in Europe ? the Minister responsible for Europe , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , have condemn what take place in Georgia over the last few day , and I endorse that condemnation . on the issue of russian asset , we be engage particularly with european colleague who be more exposed than we be . it have be right to allow new government in Europe to take their place and consider these issue , because they require some technical understanding , but we continue to press this issue , and it will be a topic at the NATO summit later today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . over the weekend , while the world ' s attention be fix on the escalate conflict in the middle east , President Putin restate publicly his desire to conquer the whole of Ukraine and his readiness to use nuclear weapon against Kyiv . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s assurance that he be maintain a focus on Putin ' s barbaric war against Ukraine . the Foreign Secretary previously tell the House that Germany and Belgium be the blocker to international agreement on seize frozen russian asset . will he set out how he and the Prime Minister will raise this proposal with his belgian and german counterpart at the NATO summit ? have he consider replicate the EU ' s proposal to extract billion of euros more from those asset by move they into high yield investment ? it be important to recognise that the European Union have just come forward with a new sanction package — its 18th . I congratulate it on that , give that , as the hon . Member will recognise , country like Hungary have be backmarker and blocker on this issue . he have hear what I have say on russian asset : it have be important for new government to be able to consider these thing afresh and get up to technical speed . the way forward must be to pool those asset so that all of we bear joint liability , as it be . the discussion continue apace . right of Women and girl what step his Department be take to protect the right of woman and girl globally . we be steadfast in our support for woman and girl ; the appointment of Baroness Harman as special envoy underscore that commitment . we be focus much of our effort on the most marginalised woman and girl , who be disproportionately affect by ongoing conflict and crisis — for example , through food assistance to 800 , 000 displace people on the Chad - Sudan border , almost 90 % of whom be woman and child . yesterday , we welcome an ambitious and much - need industrial strategy , which will rely on bold trade deal with country around the world . Britain have a strong tradition of promote human right in its work around the world . how be the fcdo ensure that we uphold our commitment to right for girl and woman as we develop trade deal with other country ? we be use our influence to unlock the full potential of woman to participate in the economy — that include work to include gender provision in newly negotiate free trade agreement — and we be support woman - lead business to realise the benefit of trade . the develop country trading scheme provide for 0 % tariff , which disproportionately support small , woman - lead business in low - income country . I should like to know what step the Foreign Office be take to protect woman and girl in this country . there can be no well candidate for deportation than non - UK national who have violently rape child here . after the Casey report into the gang scandal last week , Ministers promise that they would do everything they could to deport the man involve . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that he have already tell Pakistan that british aid and diplomatic visa will be withdraw if convict rapist be not take back ? Minister , have you get something on that question ? it be probably a question for the Home Office , but we in the Foreign Office will do anything we can to support victim and bring people to justice . I call the shadow Minister . education be a basic right , and ensure quality education for every girl be essential to build a more equitable world . in 2023 , the Conservative Government launch the woman and girl strategy to deliver on the three Es : education , empower woman and girl , and end violence . do the Minister stand by the commitment to ensure that at least 50 % of aid reach woman and girl ? most importantly , will she confirm the 2025 - 26 official development assistance spending for global education follow the spending review ? we be commit to support woman in all that we do . we be support , for example , 200 , 000 displace child with education intervention in Sudan and reach sudanese refugee population in six country through £ 14 million of funding for Education can not wait , which the right hon . Member may know from her time as a Minister — be that one of the programme she cut ? UK support through the international finance facility for education will unlock up to $ 1 billion in additional and affordable education . our equality impact assessment will be publish shortly so that she can analyse the exact pound and penny . arm trade : Israel what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the Government ' s policy on arm trade with Israel . the UK operate one of the most robust export control regime in the world . one of our first act in government be to review and suspend export licence that could be use by the Israel Defence Forces in Gaza . we have successfully implement that suspension and have continue to refuse relevant licence application . all export licence be keep under careful and continual review , and we can suspend , refuse or revoke licence as require . the war criminal of Benjamin Netanyahu ' s Government be carry out the most vile human right abuse and genocide . at the same time , the UK carry out the training of israeli military personnel and facilitate almost daily spy flight that provide intelligence , and there be continue export of military equipment to Israel . with all that , will the Government support an independent public inquiry into UK involvement in israeli military operation in Gaza ? it be important to be focus on the fact at issue . we do not support spy flight ; we have a limited presence to try and find hostage in Gaza , for reason that the whole House would understand and support . there be few than 10 IDF personnel receive any training in the UK , and that training be academic and non - military in nature . we be not arm Israel ' s war in Gaza . we categorically do not export any bomb or ammunition for use in military operation in Gaza . my hon . friend ask about an independent inquiry . the Government welcome scrutiny and I welcome my time in this Chamber . on the question at issue on arm sale , include on the F - 35 programme , there be a judicial review on which we will hear finding shortly . there be plenty of scrutiny of this Government . will the Government let we know what assessment they have make of Israel ' s stockpile of nuclear weapon ? the hon . Gentleman will understand why I will not comment on those issue from the Dispatch Box . water , Sanitation and Hygiene what assessment he have make of the contribution of water , sanitation and hygiene project to achieve the Government ' s international development objective . our work on water , sanitation and hygiene help deliver development objective on global health , climate and growth . we support eight country in Africa and Asia to develop climate - resilient water , sanitation and hygiene service and prevent the spread of disease , include cholera . we be work through the World Bank and the global challenge programme on water to reach 300 million with water service by 2030 . recent polling by WaterAid and YouGov show that access to water , sanitation and hygiene be the no . 1 priority that the UK public want to see fund through UK aid . that make sense , give that water underpin global health , keep girl in school and build climate - resilient community . do the Minister agree that it be one of the smart and most cost - effective way to deliver the UK ' s development goal ? without access to safe water , sanitation and hygiene , there can be no meaningful progress in any of those area . the hon . Gentleman make important point . I have the pleasure of see many important water and sanitation project in my previous career . we be concentrate on maintain our impact by focus on partnership with government and multilateral , and establish the condition that can secure additional domestic funding and private investment in those area . he rightly make the link between water and sanitation and health , and that will be consider as we approach future funding allocation . Chagos Archipelago : sovereignty what change be make to the draft agreement to transfer sovereignty over the Chagos island to Mauritius between October 2024 and May 2025 . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the treaty with Mauritius on the transfer of sovereignty of the Chagos archipelago on the UK . how much and what proportion of the funding due to be allocate to Mauritius as part of the agreement concern the Chagos archipelago will come from his Department . the Diego Garcia military base deal secure the future of the strategically critical US - UK military base . it will protect our national security for generation and ensure we maintain vital capability . it be our most significant contribution to the transatlantic defence and security partnership . it have be strengthen since our agreement with the previous Mauritian Government and , indeed , from the deal under discussion by the previous Government . the payment will be split between the FCDO and the Ministry of Defence , and publish in the usual way . the opposition understand the jeopardy face the base and the necessity of the treaty , which be why they start negotiate in the first place . the Foreign Secretary be an old friend and the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , be a Lincolnshire neighbour whom , in all his innocence , I regard with a degree of paternal care , so I ask this question more in sorrow than in anger . the assumption root in the Government ' s statement be that unless we do a deal with Mauritius , the International Telecommunication Union could decide that Mauritius be sovereign and deny access to both the US and the UK . that be fundamentally untrue . the ITU have no competence in that regard and it be ignore by the US already , so will the Minister confirm that that argument be entirely bogus ? this be not a deal . this be not diplomacy . it be a disgrace . I thoroughly reject that statement by the right hon . gentleman . he know that I have a lot of respect for he , but I be afraid that he be completely mistaken on this . the fact be that the court be already make decision that undermine our position , legally bind provisional measure could have come within week , affect the operational ability of the base to function as it be , and we believe that an inevitable bind judgment would have follow . the deal have be do and this House be now scrutinise it . I have appear before two Committees in recent week , and of course there will be further such scrutiny over the week ahead . if the US want to launch an attack on Iran from Diego Garcia in the current circumstance , would the UK Government support it ? as the Foreign Secretary have make absolutely clear , there be no UK involvement in the US strike on Iran . the hon . Gentleman will understand that we do not comment on private conversation with our ally or on hypothetical operation . I have hope for a more precise answer to my question . rather than press again for exact figure or a departmental breakdown , let I proceed down a related line of inquiry . be there any mechanism , legal or otherwise , that the Mauritian Government could use to reopen the Chagos negotiation or to request further financial or material assistance in a way that could result in additional cost to the british taxpayer ? I have set out the cost very clearly . they average out at £ 101 million over the course of the deal . that compare very favourably with , for example , what France pay for its military facility in Djibouti . this treaty have be enter into in good faith by the UK and Mauritius , it will be legally bind , and we be absolutely clear that it be compliant with international law and all our other obligation . when the Foreign Affairs Committee be in Washington recently , we raise the Diego Garcia deal with the Administration . they could not have be more enthusiastic for this deal , because they recognise that it secure our strategic interest in the area . do the Minister agree that it be perhaps time for Conservative Members to stop play politic with national defence ? I could not agree more . this deal be support by the United States , by our five Eyes partner and by India . it secure our national security , the security of our ally and the base well into the next century . as I have say many time , if there be not a problem , why do the previous Government start negotiate ? I call the shadow Minister . labour ' s surrender of british sovereignty have be welcome by China , Russia and Iran , and now we learn that the UK will have to notify Mauritius of any military operation come from Diego Garcia , jeopardise our national security . far from uphold our international obligation , this treaty be a shameful betrayal of british Chagossians , with no guarantee of access to the Mauritian - control £ 40 million trust fund and british taxpayer fork out £ 30 billion to subsidise tax cut in Mauritius . why will the Government not allow this House a proper debate and a vote before next week ' s 21 - day deadline under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 ? should we not keep the Chagos island british and under the protection of the Crown ? would that not be a well policy ? half of the hon . Gentleman ' s question be rhetoric and half of it be completely wrong . he might want to consider correct the record on a number of point . we do not have to inform Mauritius before undertake military action from the base ; that relate to expedition information after action , so there be no fettering of our ability to operate from there . the cost he quote be simply wrong . it be £ 101 million average over the course of the deal , and the net present value of the payment be £ 3 . 4 billion . all sort of wild figure have be post around , but they do not reflect the reality . this have be consider by the Government Actuary . I would really have hope , give the wide geopolitical threat that this country and our ally face at the moment , that he would come up with some more serious question . Saudi Arabia what step he be take to strengthen the UK ' s relationship with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia . the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia be historic ally with a modern partnership . I meet his Highness Prince Faisal bin Farhan immediately after the first israeli strike , signify the significant strength and trust in the relationship . the Prime Minister visit Riyadh for his first strategic partnership council with his Royal Highness the Crown Prince , where he commit to an ambitious programme of co - operation and enhance mutual prosperity . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Saudi Arabia . Saudi Arabia be an important partner for trade and peace in the middle east and for the combating of terrorism around the world . with reference to recent event in Iran , how be the Foreign Secretary utilise our relationship to involve the Saudi Government in our de - escalation effort in the region ? I have find it hugely beneficial to be able to speak to his Highness Prince Faisal so closely over the last few day , at the outbreak of this crisis and then again in the last 48 hour . we stay in close touch , and Saudi Arabia be a key ally . of course , we be worried about how the situation would affect regional ally like Saudi Arabia . there be so much that we can do together , not just on security , but on trade . our trade have grow by 70 % , and we remain committed to grow our total trade to £ 30 billion by 2030 . the creation of the Abraham accord be one of the achievement of the first Trump Administration , and the President of the US have say that he aim for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to join those accord . what be the UK Government do to encourage that process , and what precondition do he believe Riyadh have for join the accord ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a good question . we should remember when think about 7 October that one of the objective of Hamas be to tear apart the prospect of normalisation in the region . notwithstanding the horror and pain of the crisis in the region over these last month , the Abraham accord and Israel ' s change relationship with so many Gulf partner in particular , but also other muslim country , be important to keep hold of . we continue to discuss these issue , but there be no prospect until we get to a ceasefire . Middle East : british Nationals what step his Department be take to provide assistance to british national impact by conflict in the middle east . the safety of british national be our first priority . we be provide support and advice to more than 1 , 000 british national as they seek to leave the region by land and air . we have deploy team to Israel , Cyprus , Egypt and Jordan . our embassy in Tehran have be temporarily withdraw but continue to provide support to british national in Iran remotely . we have bolster team in neighbouring country to support british national seek to get to safety . when israeli airspace open yesterday , we run our first RAF evacuation flight , and I can confirm to the House now that we will fly another today . british national in Israel , include the daughter of my constituent , remain concerned about their safety . the advice have be for british citizen to make their way to Egypt via the border , but there have be some report that the israeli Government have suggest those journey would be unsafe . can the Minister clarify the advice to british citizen in that situation ? travel advice be the good source of advice for british national in Israel . there be option for leave by land , as my hon . friend ' s constituent be aware . there be now option for leave by air as well , but , as he and the whole House will understand , the flow of flight out of Israel remain limited . british national in Israel will want to make their own judgment about whether they want to wait for a flight or make a land journey , and my official be available to advise every constituent on the option before they . two of my constituent be currently in Tehran , but they say that fuel shortage , long queue and poor internet access , as well as closed airspace , have make it almost impossible for they to leave Iran . they urgently need clear guidance , they need a way to formally register their presence , and they need consular support , which they be struggle to access . will the Minister urgently meet I to ensure that my constituent get the assistance they need from the Government to come home safely to Eastbourne ? I be , of course , very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . the whole House know that we have advise against all travel to Iran for some time , and we have be clear that our ability to provide consular assistance in Iran be very limited for those reason , particularly give the temporary withdrawal of our embassy . we would encourage those in Iran to be in touch with the Foreign Office , and we will provide what advice and support we can . recognition of the State of Palestine what assessment he have make of the potential merit of recognise the state of Palestine . we be committed to recognise a palestinian state at a time that have the most impact and be most conducive to long - term prospect for peace . UK bilateral recognition be the single most important action we can take towards palestinian statehood , which be why it be important to get the timing right , so that it create genuine momentum and be not simply a symbolic gesture . what be happen in Gaza be hard enough to watch , but if we be to prevent the west bank from go the same way in a few year ' time , we must act today . do the Minister agree that recognise the principle of a palestinian state , without make any judgment for the moment on its border , be the strong and most effective way to reaffirm the UK ' s long - stand commitment to a two - state solution , while there be still territory leave to form it with ? the hon . Gentleman make important point about the situation in the west bank — point that we have discuss in this Chamber before . we have condemn the violence and the expansion of illegal settlement in the west bank . there be a range of issue on which we profoundly disagree with the israeli Government in relation to their approach to the west bank , and we will continue to raise those issue with force . I refer he to my previous answer about recognition . can my hon . friend update I on the conference that be due to be hold at the weekend but be postpone follow the bombing of Iran by Israel , at which the potential for recognition be to be discuss ? I think my hon . friend refer to the two - state solution conference that be due to take place in New York last week . it have be suspend for understandable reason , give event in the region , by its french and saudi co - host . we expect that it will be rearrange , and I have be in conversation with my saudi colleague about when that might be . Alaa Abd el - Fattah what recent progress he have make on secure the release of Alaa Abd el - Fattah . I be commit to secure Alaa Abd el - Fattah ' s release — I be committed to this before come to power , and I remain committed now . the Government be engage intensively on this case . I raise Alaa ' s imprisonment every time I be in contact with my egyptian counterpart , and the Prime Minister have raise it in several conversation with President Sisi . I think everybody in this Chamber , include the Foreign Secretary , be desperately worried about the health of Laila Soueif , who have feel that she have no choice but to be on hunger strike since her son Alaa should have be release last September . she be in and out of hospital , desperately ill , " die in slow motion " , as her daughter say . I welcome the work that the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have do on this case and the commitment they have make . as the Foreign Secretary know , the Egyptians have remain steadfast in their objection . can he confirm that he be consider all option to secure Alaa ' s release , include change the Foreign Office travel advice for Egypt to highlight the risk of arbitrary detention , so that no other family be put through this kind of anguish ? this case and Laila ' s condition concern I greatly . it have be a top priority every week that I have be in office . at every single level — Prime Minister , Foreign Secretary , Minister , National Security Adviser — we be engage with the Egyptians . I believe that our strategy be work , but clearly , give Laila ' s health , we must see progress at pace with the egyptian Government . I recall the right hon . Gentleman , before he become Foreign Secretary , ask the previous Government what " diplomatic price " Egypt have pay for the arbitrary detention of Alaa , before demand that " serious diplomatic consequence " should be put on Egypt should it not release he . Alaa ' s mother be now 278 day into a hunger strike and be critically ill , so let I ask he this : since he become Foreign Secretary , what diplomatic price have Egypt pay , and what serious diplomatic consequence can he point to that Egypt have be force to pay since July last year ? I can reassure the hon . gentleman that I remain in close touch with Laila and the family , and that this be a no . 1 priority for I and I expect to see Alaa release . I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that he have stand up time after time to raise his concern about Gaza , and he will understand that if he want the UK Government to have an effect in Gaza , we must have relation with the Egyptians . Pious Projects ' Paediatric Hospital : Gaza whether he have make an assessment of the potential merit of support Pious Projects ' paediatric hospital in Gaza . we be clear that Israel must immediately allow rapid and unhindered aid into Gaza , include desperately need medical supply . the UK continue to support the delivery of medical assistance through trust partner , include UK - Med , which have complete over 500 , 000 patient consultation in Gaza since January 2024 . we will continue to assess how we can well support those in need . the Foreign Secretary will understand my question , because I write to he on 18 June ask if he would meet Dr Mohammed Mustafa , who have assemble a child ' s hospital in prefabricated form in Jordan and be ready to go into Gaza . it will be able to help the 400 , 000 child in northern Gaza who have no access to any medical facility at all at the moment . this be desperately urgent . will the Minister meet Dr Mustafa to familiarise himself with the opportunity here of do something practical and good to help desperate child in northern Gaza ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his continued engagement on these question . we have discuss across the Dispatch Box many time the restriction on aid get into Gaza , include in relation to construction material . I be very happy to take a further look at this specific proposal and see if there be anything that we can do . the al - Ahli hospital in Gaza , which be run by the anglican church in Jerusalem , have repeatedly be bomb . early this month the hospital compound be hit , kill five people , include a father escort his son to surgery . the Minister have speak much about the need for aid to get in , but will he set out what concrete action he be go to take now ? say that Israel must do something do not mean that it be go to act , so what action he be go to take to ensure that the attack on hospital , medic and patient end ? I want nothing more than for the attack on hospital , medical personnel and aid worker to end . my hon . friend be right that I have say many time from this Dispatch Box that I want that to be the case , yet these strike have continue . we continue to raise these issue with the israeli Government . we have take a series of action , many of which we have discuss already over the course of this morning , and we will continue to take action until thing change . until thing change , this Government will not be satisfied . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . Britain be at the heart of diplomatic effort to de - escalate the situation in the middle east . we be clear that Iran must never have a nuclear weapon . while at the UK , EU , G7 and NATO summit and in my engagement from the high north to north Africa , the Government have be deliver security and growth for the british people , deepen Britain ' s partnership and alliance , and address the ongoing horrendous conflict in Gaza and Ukraine . I know that this House , alongside my constituent across Bexleyheath and Crayford , welcome the sanction take against two israeli official early this month . what discussion be the UK Government hold with our international partner regard further action that could be take in relation to the incitement of violence against palestinian citizen ? my hon . friend will have see that we work with Australia , Canada , New Zealand and Norway on take those sanction against Ben - Gvir and Smotrich . I can not speculate on future sanction , but I reassure he that we be co - ordinating with our ally . he will know that on the issue of humanitarian aid , for example , 26 country join we . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . give the clear threat that Iran pose to the United Kingdom , our ally and the middle east , do the Foreign Secretary support the action undertake by the United States to degrade Iran ' s nuclear weapon ? he will have hear that President Trump have say that Iran ' s nuclear capability be go . do he welcome that ? it be important to be alongside Secretary of State Rubio last week in DC . we continue to work closely with President Trump , and the Prime Minister speak to he just two day ago . the initial assessment of those attack in Iran be come in , and we will assess that in due course . give the situation that have emerge in the middle east and the fact that the de - escalation have not take place in recent hour , can the Foreign Secretary outline what measure he be oversee , in what be effectively quite an urgent situation , to bring back 4 , 000 british national now strand in Israel ? he , like I , will have receive overnight a large volume of correspondence from concerned family . what immediate step will be take ? I understand that another plane be be put in place , but we be now speak about 4 , 000 british national who be clearly stick in Israel . I be very pleased to see that that flight come into Birmingham . we will do all we can to work with the israeli Government to open airspace and to continue flight . we have a ceasefire . I have see , of course , that that ceasefire have be violate , and I urge all partner to keep to that ceasefire so that airspace can open up and commercial flight can resume . many of my constituent have raise concern about the use of RAF Akrotiri to support Israel ' s military activity in Gaza . give the rapidly develop situation with Iran , can Ministers assure this House that british arm and military basis will not be likewise implicate in any further escalation of that conflict ? I can not comment on hypothetical , but I can assure my hon . friend that we will do all we can to protect our asset and our troop in the region and always to stay within international law . the UN child in conflict report show that violence against child increase by 25 % last year , and that do not even include what be go on this year . the israeli Government be list as the most prolific perpetrator of grave violation against child for the second year run , make Gaza the most dangerous place on earth to be a child . what specific step be the Foreign Secretary take to protect child in conflict in Gaza and elsewhere , such as in Somalia and Haiti ? the hon . Lady raise vital question about the status of child in Gaza . in response to one of her colleague , I set out some of the measure that we have take already . clearly , child in Gaza , like all civilian there , be under the most enormous pressure at the moment , and aid get in be a vital next step . where child from Gaza be outside the region , in particular in Egypt and Jordan , we have provide support to they there . in a very limited set of case where specialist medical attention be possible only from the UK , we have bring child from Gaza to the UK . almost daily we hear report of israeli force open fire near aid distribution site in Gaza . People can not even access basic food supply without risk their life . give the horrific level of suffer that we can all see take place , be it not time to end all arm sale to Israel and to recognise the state of Palestine ? I want to reassure my hon . friend that we have ban the sale of arm that could be use in Gaza , and we liaise with the French and the Saudi Arabians , despite the suspension of their conference . I think the intention be to resume in September . at the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday , the Minister for the overseas territory , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , be unable to give clear guarantee about the future of the Chagos marine protect area once the sovereignty of the Chagos island be surrender to Mauritius . do the Foreign Secretary accept that his Chagos surrender deal do not currently secure the marine environment , and that a future environmental protection agreement may result in the UK pay even more money to Mauritius ? it be a shame that the hon . Gentleman ' s question take that tone ; I think we have a very constructive conversation yesterday , and I take on board the point make by he and by the Chair of the Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . I assure the hon . Gentleman that the marine protect area be a key part of our agreement with Mauritius , and this Government be commit to protect our ocean and natural resource globally . Tulsi Gabbard , the US Director of National Intelligence , say in March that Iran be not build a nuclear weapon , as do the UN atomic energy agency . however , a day before a conference on recognise Palestine , Israel decide unilaterally that Iran have a nuclear weapon , and that there be an immediate threat of attack ; it therefore bomb Iran . Israel ' s illegal bombing be a distraction from the shooting and killing of starve Palestinians , and to prevent the recognition of the state of Palestine . can I ask the Minister — Order . question should be short and punchy — quick , quick . what step be the Minister take to stop the killing of Palestinians , and to recognise the state of Palestine ? it be important to recognise that in our country , at Sizewell and at Urenco , uranium be enrich at between 3 % and 5 % . the International Atomic Energy Agency have find 60 % enrichment in Iran . Iran can not have a nuclear weapon , and we be do all we can diplomatically to get a negotiate settlement on that problem . of course , we continue to press for aid to the Palestinians . minister have collectively restate their commitment to a two - state solution in the Israel - Palestine conflict , but only one of those state be currently recognise . I believe there be support in this House for recognition of Palestine , and that if the matter be put to a vote , that support would be express . would that not strengthen Ministers ' hand , and will they bring the issue to a vote ? we have discuss these issue many time . early , an hon . Friend ask I why , when minister say thing at the Dispatch Box , they do not happen . the view of this House on the question of a two - state solution be clearly very important , but it be the job of Foreign Office Ministers to try to make it a reality in practice , through diplomacy . do the Minister join I in welcome the ceasefire between Israel and Iran announce by President Trump , and although the situation clearly remain fragile , do he see an opportunity to restore stability and develop a diplomatic solution to Iran ' s nuclear programme — one that ensure that Iran never have access to nuclear weapon ? yes , I do . early this month , the US President order the brutal Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid in Los Angeles , and call those protest against these raid " pay insurrectionist " and " criminal invader " . a few day later , a gunman assassinate democratic politician Melissa Hortman . in recent month , figure associate with the US President have spread disinformation and polarise rhetoric via social medium , even target a Government Minister . I be sure that the Secretary of State agree that this level of political violence — order . this be topical question ; I have to get other people in . question be mean to be short and punchy . please , let we now hear a quick answer from the Foreign Secretary . just as the hon . Gentleman would not expect member of Congress or the Senate to comment on domestic issue in our country , I be not go to stray into domestic issue in the US . it remain the close of ally . I pay tribute to the Foreign Secretary and his team for all their diplomatic effort on de - escalation in the middle east . with the rule - base order under enormous strain , uphold international law and multilateral institution matter more than ever . it be almost a year since the International Court of Justice hand down its judgment on the illegality of Israel ' s occupation of Palestine . give that senior Government Ministers receive advice last year on the implication of that judgment for the UK , when can we expect the Government ' s response ? I recognise the appetite in the Chamber to hear more about the ICJ advisory opinion . it be a far - reach and complex judgment , and we be take our time with our response . what practical step can the Government take to support woman and girl in Afghanistan who , after a period of be encourage to liberate themselves , be now cast back into domestic servitude ? this be an incredibly important question . as I think some in the House know , I negotiate with the Taliban when I be an official . it be a source of incredible personal frustration to I that the situation in Afghanistan for woman have get bad and bad as the month have draw on . the Taliban need to change course , not just on the right of woman , but for the viability of their economy and their country . I thank the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , for her support for the family of Simone White , who tragically die last year after drink a free vodka shot in Laos . I hear worrying report that the hostel where that happen be due to reopen shortly under another name . what assurance can the Minister give I and the family that everything be be do to hold those involve accountable , and to keep traveller safe from the danger of methanol poisoning ? I thank my hon . friend for his hard work for his constituent . I meet simone ' s family on 14 May and , as he be aware , I meet the Minister responsible in Vientiane . I will raise my hon . friend ' s point today , as a result of this question . Holyhead Towing in my constituency have vessel in the middle east , specifically in Saudi Arabia , Qatar and the UAE . the company be keep its crew update to the good of its knowledge . what official advice or guidance be available for UK maritime operator work in the region ? as I have say before , travel advice be the sure and most regularly update advice for british national in the region . we change the travel advice yesterday for Qatar , as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary announce in the House . we hope , as he have say this morning , that there will now be great stability in the region , that the ceasefire will hold , and that british national in the region will not be so concerned . travel advice be the good place to look . the all - party parliamentary group for Africa , which I chair , recently publish its report on Africa ' s just energy transition to accessible and renewable clean energy . what assessment have the Minister make of the report ' s nine recommendation , include the recommendation on reform carbon market so that they work in Africa ' s interest , and the recommendation on ensure that international development funding be blend with private sector funding for investment in that transition ? may I begin by congratulate my hon . friend on her recent elevation ? I thank she for her work on the APPG , and I assure she that we will review her report as part of our new Africa approach . Dame Karen Pierce be one of our most senior and experienced diplomat , and I very much welcome her appointment as an envoy to the western Balkans , but since her appointment , we have hear precious little about the western Balkans from the Foreign Secretary ' s Department . can he reassure this House that we have not lose interest in the western Balkans ? have be to the region twice — I be go back soon , within the next six week — I assure the right hon . Gentleman that we have absolutely not lose interest . Dame Karen Pierce be at the centre of that , alongside the Berlin process , which we will host later this year . we recently agree the successful UK - India trade deal , but fcdo co - ordination with India on crisis diplomacy have never be more important , particularly follow the recent terrorist attack , the Air India plane crash and human right concern , include about the case of Jagtar Singh Johal . can the Secretary of State explain how security co - operation and consular support be be pursue in the light of the trade deal ? may I first say how deeply shocked and sadden we all be by the devastating plane crash in Ahmedabad ? the Foreign Secretary visit India in his first month in office , and since then , we have agree the groundbreake technology security initiative and the free trade agreement , as my hon . Friend say . on human right issue and the case of Jagtar Singh Johal , I will meet my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) , who represent the family , hopefully this week or next , when our diary can align . what do it say to Britain ' s ally , and to our enemy , when neither the Foreign Secretary nor the Prime Minister can bring themselves to say that the strike again Iran be right and legal ? I have speak to Secretary of State Rubio every single week that I have be in office . the Prime Minister and the President of the United States have the good of relationship . that be a signal of how well our special relationship be work . the iranian regime hang gay people from crane . it fund and arm terror group , and arm Vladimir Putin . a regime such as that must never have nuclear weapon . what will the Foreign Secretary do to prevent it from ever achieve its goal ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for remind we of the horrendous human right record of this regime , a regime that be the bad sponsor of state terrorism in the world . can the Foreign Secretary declare from the Dispatch Box that an Iran with no nuclear weapon be now a more likely prospect as a result of the action of the israeli and american force over the past 10 day ? I recognise the point that the hon . Gentleman have make , but let I make this clear to he . once a country have acquire the ability to enrich uranium to 60 % , that scientific knowledge be there and do not go away . ultimately , this will require a diplomatic solution . that be what President Trump be push for , and that be what the UK Government want to see as well . the postpone french - saudi conference on a two - state solution may take place as early as next month . do the Minister think it will provide the significant opportunity that he seek for we to recognise Palestine as a state , alongside UK ally ? we be talk to the French and the Saudis about their plan . obviously event in the middle east be move quickly , but I recognise the force of what my hon . friend have say . cousin marriage be often use as a cover for force marriage . have the Government raise the issue of the incredibly high rate of first - cousin marriage with the Pakistani Government , give that so many of those marriage be between UK and pakistani national ? as the right hon . Gentleman probably know , I be in Pakistan recently , and we discuss a range of human right issue . the Foreign Secretary will be aware that Colombia and South Africa , as co - chair of the Hague Group , have call an emergency ministerial conference in defence of international law and the right of the palestinian people , to take place in Bogot á in July . country across the world be confirm their attendance . will the UK Government send a representative , and join nation around the world in stand up for international law ? my hon . friend will recognise that we , alongside our partner throughout the global community , continue to raise serious issue relate to the plight of Palestinians in Gaza , and of course I will look in detail at the conference to which he have refer . Melia , Gvaramia , Badri Japaridze , Khazaradze , Zurab Japaridze and Vashadze : all six opposition leader arrest over the last two week in Georgia . what be the British Government go to do about it , and what be the message from the British Government to the georgian people , who be suffer as a result of this huge democratic backsliding ? the georgian people have make clear their Euro - atlantic aspiration . we absolutely condemn not only those arrest of opposition politician , but the closing down of civil society space . I have communicate my concern directly to georgian Dream in recent week , and will be do so again . Speaker ' s statement I wish to make a short statement about the text of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . after the Bill be publish last Wednesday , a small error be spot in the text , concern a cross - reference between subsection in clause 5 . I be satisfied that the error be sufficiently minor to authorise a correct print of the Bill , which will be available in the Vote Office and online after this statement . the substantive proceeding on the Bill be not affect in any way by the change , and no matter of order arise . National Security Strategy today the Prime Minister attend the opening day of the NATO summit . that summit be expect to agree to a new commitment to grow spending on national security to 5 % of gdp by 2035 — to be make up by a project split of 3 . 5 % on core defence spending , and 1 . 5 % on broad resilience and security spending . this will mark a new resolve among NATO member to make our country strong and , as we have always do , the United Kingdom will play our part . NATO ' s member country meet at a time when the security situation be more in flux than at any time in a generation — a time when Ukraine be in its fourth year of resist Russia ' s invasion ; a time when we in Europe be be ask to do more to secure our own defence ; a time when security involve not just the traditional realm of air , sea and land , but technology , cyber and the strength of our democratic society ; and , as we have see in recent day , a time of renew military action in the middle east , with Israel and the United States act to try to stop Iran develop a nuclear bomb . news of a ceasefire be welcome , but as we have see , even in recent hour , the situation remain fragile and the focus must now be on a credible plan to stop Iran develop nuclear weapon . it be to the great pride of my party that NATO be found in the aftermath of the second world war with the strong support of the post - war Labour Government . Ernest Bevin , the Foreign Secretary at the time , say that " we must face the fact as they be . " — [ Official Report , 22 January 1948 ; Vol . 446 , c . 386 . ] today , in this very different age , we too must face the fact as they be . the generation that found NATO see it as a powerful expression of collective security and solidarity : alliance abroad , match by capacity at home . our national security strategy , publish today and make for these very different time , be inspire by those same value and aim . every Member of this House understand that the first duty of any Government be to keep the country safe . that be and always will be our no . 1 priority , and our national security strategy set out how we will do that . the world have change fundamentally and continue to change before our eye . this be indeed an age of radical uncertainty , and the challenge to leadership in time of such change be to understand , to respond and to explain . the british people understand this . they recognise that we be live in a world that be more confrontational , more turbulent and more unpredictable than most of we have experience in our lifetime . when the Prime Minister speak to the House in February , he promise to produce a national security strategy that would match the scale of the task ahead . the strategy we have publish today do that , with a plan that be both clear - eyed and hard - edged about the challenge that we face . it set out a long - term vision for how we will do three crucial thing . first , we will protect security at home by defend our territory , control our border and make the UK a hard target for our enemy — one that be strong and more resilient to future threat . secondly , we will promote strength abroad . that mean bolster our collective security , renew and refresh our key alliance , and develop new partnership in strategic location across the world . it also mean take a clear - eyed view of how we engage with major power such as China in order to protect our national security and promote our economic interest , and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary will make a further statement on the China audit shortly . thirdly , we will increase our sovereign and asymmetric capability by rebuild our defence industry , train our people , focus investment on our competitive strength , and use our exceptional research and innovation base to build up advantage in new frontier technology . all this will make we a strong and more resilient country , but deliver on each commitment will be possible only if all part of society be pull in the same direction . our manufacturing , science and technology industry have to be align with national security objective . our industrial strategy , publish yesterday , will help play to the UK ' s strength and deepen our capability . the investment we announce in the spending review also deepen our resilience and strength as a country , with a health service strong enough to cope , safe and secure energy supply , modern housing and transport for our people , all of which contribute to a strong United Kingdom . that be why it be so important that all part of Government and business big and small understand that cyber - security be national security , and that our core system and the revenue of business be be target by our adversary . it be why we as legislator have to ensure that our own law — from border to trade — fit with national security . this will take a whole - system approach that reflect today ' s reality . national security mean strong supply chain , control on immigration , tackle online harm , energy security , economic security and border security . it transcend foreign and domestic policy , and it all play a role in how we make Britain a safe , more secure and more sovereign nation . this document provide the blueprint of how this fit together . the strategy bring together everything we be do across the full spectrum of national security : the commitment to spend that 5 % of our domestic economic output on national security by 2035 , meet our NATO commitment once again ; the over £ 1 billion we be invest in a new network of national biosecurity centre ; how we be step up in area such as cyber capability ; our anti - corruption strategy to counter illicit finance ; the expansion of our legal and law enforcement toolkit ; the large sustained investment in our armed force since the cold war ; our plan for defence investment to unlock real benefit for work people ; how we will prioritise NATO explicitly in our defence planning ; a vision for not only deepen our alliance with the United States and the European Union , but grow our relationship with other emerge nation ; the money we be invest in our brilliant research and development base over the come year , such as the £ 750 million for the supercomputer at the University of Edinburgh ; and our ambition to gain a competitive advantage in cut - edge technology and to embed national security in our artificial intelligence agenda . we do not underestimate the size of this task . the world be a more dangerous place than at any time since the end of the cold war , yet it be also a place where Britain ' s value , capability and alliance can make a positive difference . since we come to power , we have take step after step to prepare Britain for what lie ahead : record investment in defence , back our ally , and resist the false choice put before we that would only have weaken our country . today ' s strategy represent an important contribution to all that work . it recognise that our long - term growth , prosperity and living standard all depend on national security become a way of life for people and business in the UK . this be a plan for how we protect the british people . it be a plan for today ' s time , but root in long - hold value . it be a plan to defend our national interest , deepen our international alliance and increase our sovereign capability , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for advance sight of the statement and of the strategy . protect our country from internal and external threat to keep the british people and our interest safe be the no . 1 priority for any Government . as a former Home Secretary , I have see at first hand the incredible effort of our security and intelligence service to keep we safe . so much of their work will never be disclose , but I know that the whole House will join I in thank they for all they do , alongside our police , counter - terrorism operation , the armed force and all those who work so hard to keep Britain safe . his Majesty ' s opposition will always work constructively with the Government in the national interest , especially in the current global climate when threat be increasingly complex and multifaceted . Iran , China , Russia , North Korea , non - state terrorist actor and transnational criminal all pose a significant threat to we all . that be why we welcome action that build on the measure we put in place in government , include our National Security Act 2023 , which give we increase oversight of adversarial action and introduce the foreign influence registration scheme . the statement and the strategy refer to the three pillar of security at home , strength abroad , and increase sovereign and asymmetric capability , and I will take each in turn . on security at home , protect critical national infrastructure must be a key component of any national security strategy . how will that work in practice ? what resource will be provide ? what further step be be take to protect people on british soil from transnational repression ? with China place bounty on the head of people in our own country and both the NSS and the strategic defence review highlight the threat pose by China , can the right hon . Gentleman confirm that China will be place on the enhance tier of FIRS ? will the Government drop their support for the China super - embassy spy hub ? on project our strength abroad , the right hon . Gentleman mention today ' s NATO summit , and the commitment to increase what he call national security spending to 5 % of gdp by 2035 , with 3 . 5 % on core defence . but he do not have a plan to get to 3 % , let alone the 3 . 5 % . it be all smoke and mirror , so when will he deliver a plan to get to 3 % , and why will he not heed our call to hit 3 % by the end of this Parliament ? that would be a vital step stone on the way to the high defence spending he be seek . will the Government give clear information on exactly what spending will be include in the 1 . 5 % target ? be there any new money , and do this , for example , include the cost of Sizewell , as we hear recently ? as well as increase spending , we need to develop a tough edge for a dangerous world . give the security threat that we continue to face , will labour ' s £ 30 billion Chagos surrender treaty be scrap ? it undermine our national security , and contrary to the Prime Minister ' s claim , our loss of sovereignty have be publicly back by representative of the regime in China , Russia and Iran . the cost also hoover up money that we could spend on much - need defence capability at this incredibly dangerous time . on increase sovereign and asymmetric capability , can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster explain what support will be give to private enterprise and what investment will support effort in this area ? I also note that the word in the Government ' s strategy do not quite align with their broad action — for example , the decision to allow the chinese firm Mingyang to provide wind turbine for large wind farm project in the UK . do he acknowledge the need to protect our energy infrastructure from such potential malign activity , and if so , what concrete step have be take to increase the very resilience of our own infrastructure ? finally , on the important role of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy and of parliamentary oversight , we understand that the National Security Adviser , Jonathan Powell , have not be make available to the Committee for question . the Government have claim that it would not be appropriate for he as a special adviser to answer question from the Committee . however , in this case , it be more than clear that Mr Powell ' s role as the National Security Adviser put he in a unique position — a unique senior position — and it appear that , as the lead adviser for the Government ' s national security strategy , it be only right that the Joint Committee be able to put question to he . give the important issue here , and Mr Powell ' s senior role and central position , will the Government finally let he give evidence to the Committee to allow it to undertake its important work ? we will always work to support the defence and security of Britain , and engage constructively with minister and challenge they to do everything possible to keep we safe , so I welcome the chance for these question to be answer today . let I express my gratitude to the shadow Foreign Secretary for her response , the spirit in which she put her question and her welcome for at least broad part of the strategy we have publish today . let I turn to the question she have ask and try to address they . on the resource to protect people , we make our commitment to increase defence expenditure to 2 . 5 % of gdp . unlike the conservative party , we say exactly how we would pay for that , even though it mean a very difficult choice on this side of the House . on the FIRS scheme , the right hon . Lady will be aware that Iran and Russia have be place on the enhance tier . she ask about our approach to China . this be a serious question and we must have a serious approach to it . the conservative party , during its time in government , veer between the naivety of the so - call " golden era " to , in effect , no engagement at all . we believe that both be the wrong approach . instead , our approach will be mark by a desire to protect our national security and to promote our economic interest ; total disengagement be not a good option for the UK , so we will be guide by both . the Foreign Secretary , as I say , will make a full statement on China shortly . the right hon . Lady ask what might be include in the 1 . 5 % . it will include such thing as cyber - security , border security and telecom infrastructure . to those who ask what those thing have to do with defence , let I be clear : our opponent and our enemy know that they be part of national security , and we should recognise that , too . finally , we have resist the opposition ' s plea for we to choose between our ally . in resist that , I believe we have a strategy that make our country strong and enhance Britain ' s capability . that be at the heart of the strategy we put today . indeed , we make a conscious choice to increase investment in the country ' s future capability at the spending review . this will give we increase strength in the future . the spending we have commit to be fund , it be set out in the spending review and that be the approach we will take in the future , too . I call the Chairman of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . I totally agree that defence and security have to begin at home , in the home and in the workplace . this be a very welcome comprehensive national security strategy , give its wide - range assessment of all the threat we face , in defence , security , critical national infrastructure and so on . an impressive number of workstream have feed into it — AUKUS , the SDR , the resilience review and so on — but there be no mention of the National Security Council . can my right hon . friend tell I what he be do to ensure that there be a coherence across the strategy that will herald a cultural change in how this country face security ? I thank the Chair of the Joint Committee for his question . I should have say , in response to the shadow Foreign Secretary , that I hope to reach a resolution with the Committee soon on the matter of appearance before it . I be always happy to appear before the Committee , if invite . the Chairman of the Joint Committee be quite right to say to the House that publishing strategy be one thing , but there must be follow through . the difference between this and some other document produce be that it be a whole - system approach , look at sovereign capability , international alliance and make our country a hard target for our enemy . all three of those must be bring together and follow through in a systematic way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats welcome the publication of the Government ' s national security strategy , because we recognise that we be live in a world that be less stable and more insecure now than at any time since the end of the cold war . Putin ' s force continue to wage their war in Ukraine , the middle east be teeter on the precipice of a fully - fledge regional war , and the action of the United States under an unreliable President Trump be put an enormous strain on the post - war settlement from which we have benefit so much . the nature of the threat we face continue to evolve , as have become immensely clear to million of people across the country with the recent cyber - attack on Marks and Spencer and the Co - op , and in other country we have see attempt by authoritarian state to meddle in free and fair election . that be why we welcome so much of what be contain in the strategy . it be also why the Liberal Democrats have welcome the Government ' s decision to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , although we have urge Ministers to go far . give the new NATO target of 5 % of gdp , will the Government now urgently convene cross - party talk to establish a consensus on how to get there ? we need to show our adversary we be serious about that commitment . the strategy also have a welcome focus on resilience , something especially important give not just the scale of the threat we face but its varied nature . will the Minister look at step take by our ally such as Estonia to inform their population about how to deal with those threat , should they arise ? to reflect the threat pose to our democracy by hostile actor , will he make protect our democracy a national security priority ? I also note the importance that the review place on sovereign independent capability . be that an admission from the Government that , under President Trump , the United States be no long a reliable ally ? will the assessment be carry over into defence procurement , where we look to maintain an inextricably close bond with the United States ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . let I try to go through some of the issue she raise . she be absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of the recent cyber - attack on Marks and Spencer , the Co - op and the legal aid system . they show what both state and non - state actor can do , and they show how important it be that we strengthen our cyber - capability and our cyber - defence as much as possible . in term of be serious , the action we have take so far since the election show that we be serious . we have a plan in place to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp this Parliament . it take a very difficult decision to do that , but at the spending review we show exactly how that would be pay for . on her reference to the United States , it remain a strong , reliable , deep and important ally for the United Kingdom . the relationship between we help to protect the british people every day . in the absence of the publish China audit , which we have all be look forward to so much , the national security strategy have be go through with a fine - toothed comb by many of we . on China , it state : " instance of China ' s espionage , interference in our democracy and the undermining of our economic security have increase in recent year . " may we have some guidance on how we will address that , because that be not entirely clear ? in particular , what advice be be give to the nation and region when they be deal with our third - big trading partner , with whom we need to promote but also protect ourselves ? I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her question . if people look at page 39 of the document , they will see many reference to China , and I refer to the statement that the Foreign Secretary be go to make . on our advice to people , as I say , it be guide by the protection of our security interest and the promotion of our economic interest . she refer specifically to the devolved government and the nation and region . we do arrange a recent security briefing for the First Ministers at the time of the recent meeting of the Council of the Nations and Regions , because we agree it be important to bring they into our thinking and help they play their role in protect our national security interest , too . the right hon . Gentleman ' s long experience will tell he that sometimes in government the grander the language the less significant the actual announcement . but if on this occasion — I be perfectly prepared to accept that this be so — the Government be make a serious effort to redraw the boundary of what be national security policy and what be not , do he agree that we need match parliamentary scrutiny of that area of policy ? as he know , the Intelligence and Security Committee be the only Committee with the necessary clearance to look at classified material . do he think that this be a good moment to look again at the memorandum of understanding between the Committee and the Government about what the Committee cover ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman be right to say that the document be distinguish by a broad view of national security , which be also reflect in the discussion at NATO today , where we be look beyond our core defence expenditure on our armed force to the other thing we have discuss that contribute to our national security . I thank the Intelligence and Security Committee for its work in all its iteration over the year . I have a good dialogue with the Committee . I look forward to that continue , and to the Committee play its very important role . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s focus on build up our armed force in this more uncertain world , but be it not also vital for our national security that we focus on prevent conflict ? bring side together to negotiate and mediate can stop conflict spill over and allow our armed force to focus on the serious threat he have identify in the national security strategy . it be for that reason that former military chief , head of the Security Service and Select Committee Chairs last week write a letter to the pm call for investment in peacebuilding and conflict prevention . will the Minister commit to use all the tool in our kitbag , include peacebuilding and conflict prevention , to keep our citizen safe ? my hon . friend be quite right to draw attention to the deep expertise that exist in the diplomatic service , which advance our national interest in a whole range of way every day , include in conflict resolution . I pay tribute to the work of those in our diplomatic post and diplomatic service across the world . if you will allow I , Mr Deputy Speaker , I will read a small quote from page 10 : " we will continue to abide by the important principle — share by NATO and its key partner — that the security of the Euro - Atlantic and Indo - Pacific region be inextricably link " . but that be not how the US view it . the Trump Administration see they as quite separate , and would prefer the United Kingdom to focus its effort on the Euro - Atlantic . how do the right hon . Gentleman explain that discrepancy ? they be inextricably link . while the Prime Minister attend the NATO summit today , our carrier group be in the Indo - Pacific region . it be quite right that the strategy we have publish today draw attention to our responsibility , our ambition and our determination to act in both arena . I welcome this national security strategy . defence begin at home , and my community play a role in the UK ' s security and resilience with the HQ of Standing Joint Command in Aldershot . we need to focus as much on national resilience as on conventional military threat , so will my right hon . friend share the work he have be do on the national resilience strategy ? how do it fit with the national security strategy that be in front of we today ? my hon . friend be right that resilience and target hardening must be part of our national security strategy . resilience be about capability and investment ; we be determined to do both , and will have more to say about resilience in the come week . before the most recent election , the Intelligence and Security Committee produce a very comprehensive report on China , make it very clear that it consider China to be one of our great threat . I be therefore astonish that , in the whole of today ' s strategy , there be three paragraph that deal with China , and that it raise one or two issue and then proceed to take a different decision . it talk about there be a problem with human right — which be genocide — and the cyber - security attack on the UK , as well as China ' s espionage , interference in our democracy , sanctioning of people like myself and undermine of our economic security , and its be guilty of transnational repression . China also ship arm to Myanmar , keep that brutal regime in charge , at the same time as build the large navy . to what degree do three paragraph satisfy the idea that China should surely be in the list of threat ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . let I make it clear that any sanction on UK parliamentarian be wrong , and there be no place for they . the paragraph he refer to set out some of our position on China . as I have say , the Foreign Secretary will , however , make a broad statement on the China audit immediately after this statement . I repeat again what I say in my opening remark : our approach to China will be guide by protect our security interest , which we will always do robustly , but also by promote our economic interest ; we do have an economic relationship with the second big economy in the world . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his statement , which be another firm example of this Government ' s top priority of keep resident safe . as the nature of warfare be change , may I once again gently raise the importance of health security , and lobby for Harlow to be the new home of the UK Health Security Agency ? I believe my hon . friend be due happy birthday wish , so let I take that opportunity , and thank he , too , for his tireless campaign for locate the laboratory in Harlow . the facility be an important capability for the United Kingdom . a decision have be await for some year ; I be not ready to announce it today , but people will not have too long to wait before it be announce . the national security strategy document outline an expand meaning of national security to include area such as food security . if food security be national security — I certainly agree it be — we need to increase domestic production instead of cut support for farmer and increase our reliance on import from the other side of the world . will the Chancellor outline how the national security strategy will be use to change policy at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ? the Government agree that food security be important . our farmer , food producer and food retailer have be burden with far too many increase cost and delay in recent year , but the recent sanitary and phytosanitary agreement we reach with the European Union will lift that burden . that will be good news for food producer in the UK , who will be able to grow and sell their magnificent produce with much great ease than in recent year . it be vital that the UK have robust defence against biological incident , accident and attack . what step be the Government take to invest in our biosecurity , and how that will help to protect our country from the range of bio - threat that we face ? there be a £ 1 billion investment in biosecurity . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for DEFRA have be able to announce only today new investment in critical resource at Weybridge as part of that . I welcome today ' s national security strategy , which bear a remarkable resemblance to every single one I have see over the past 15 year . there have be only very slight adjustment over that period ; I wonder whether there be any connection between the author , or whether it be just that the official have not change , so the politic have not change . however , one thing that really have change over that period be technology , and the document I have see this morning have very little connection to the democratisation of technology that we have see in Ukraine ' s warfare in Russia or between Israel and Iran — or , indeed , in warfare we might see wage against we by the switching off of electronic item , include solar panel and car by the chinese state . I have great respect for the right hon . Gentleman , and I thank he for his question . he be absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of technology , which I mention in my opening remark . it be why we have put such stress on have an AI action plan to make this country as strong as possible in this field , and why we have make the investment in the supercomputer at Edinburgh and this time put the money behind it . such technology be a critical part of our strength as a country and we have significant advantage and expertise in it . one aspect of the document be about ensure that , where we have an advantage , we invest in it and we make sure that it deepen our capability in those crucial way . I have Dreghorn and Redford barrack in my constituency , so I can only welcome the big uplift in defence spending since the cold war . however , many people will be concern about the cost . I wonder whether there be an opportunity here : if our NATO ally be increase spending along with we , be there an opportunity for our defence sector to benefit from that , generate job and help to grow our economy ? my hon . friend be right . decision to increase defence expenditure be not just about direct spending on the armed force , but about the supply chain , industrial capability , defence supplier and , critically , the skill to meet our defence need . that be why the Prime Minister have refer to a defence dividend . this be not just security policy ; it be industrial and skill policy , too . Cyber - security be core and central to our security at home , but a significant weakness be the security of the cabling in the North Atlantic and along the west coast of Ireland . for too long , the Irish Government have freeload and take for grant the United Kingdom provide defence and security . have the Government approach the Irish Government to see whether they will pay or play their part ? I recently have the privilege of visit the cyber centre at Queen ' s university in Belfast , which be do fantastic research in this area . the hon . member be right to draw attention to the importance of subsea cable . these carry critical datum between we and overseas country every day and it be certainly part of our strategy to do everything that we can to protect our subsea cable infrastructure . unlike the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , I welcome the focus on science and technology in the national security strategy . a new innovation quarter be be develop in Talbot village and the local council aspire to be an AI growth zone , so will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster tell I how this strategy will support growth and security in my constituency and across the south - west of England ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the importance of technology . I say in my opening remark that the investment that we make in the spending review , which do not fall from the sky but come about because of choice make by the Government , contribute to the strength and resilience of the country . that be why the strategy talk of three pillar — homeland security , alliance abroad and deepen our sovereign capability — and all three be important . give the scale of foreign - influence operation , particularly those of China , do the Minister accept that Britain ' s societal resilience remain far too limited ? without clear Government message , how can institution or the public properly play their role ? will the Minister commit to expand the defend democracy taskforce to include public education , support for free medium , and curb People ' s Liberation Army - link speaker at taxpayer fund event ? I would say that my faith in british society be strong . it be a strong society with deeply hold democratic value . we never take that for grant , but it have be endure and strong over the year . the hon . member be right to draw attention to the importance of defend our democracy . we will always defend the right to have free election and of our elect representative to go about their business . we will also do our good to promote free speech and debate in our democratic process . the Minister will know from my background that I will welcome the defence measure in the national security strategy , but I particularly wish to highlight the passage on energy security . we know that the impact of the war in Ukraine , combine with our historical over - reliance on a single source of fuel — fossil fuel — mean that many people in my constituency and across the country face crippling energy bill . will the Minister outline how this security strategy will improve our energy security and make sure that we never face such a situation again ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the experience that we have several year ago — in the early stage of the Ukraine war — which show the peril of over - reliance on overseas oil and gas . that be why investment in clean , home - grow energy be also an investment in our national security and why it contribute directly to the broad view of national security that be outline in the strategy that we have publish today . as the MP for Edinburgh West , I welcome the Government ' s continued commitment to the defence industry in which so many of my constituent work in the city . as the Liberal Democrat Scotland spokesperson , however , I also welcome what the Minister himself describe as a " critical " investment in the supercomputer at Edinburgh university . will there be discussion with the Scottish Government to ensure that not just the national security implication but the educational and economic growth opportunity be achieve for the whole country , so that the whole country benefit ? the hon . Lady say that she be speak with two hat , and let I tell she that I know how that feel . she be absolutely right to draw attention to the importance of dialogue with the Scottish Government . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee refer to the First Minister in her question . yes , we do have a positive dialogue . of course there be political difference , but the dialogue be probably in a well place than it have be for some time . as a former graduate of Edinburgh university , I very much welcome the investment in the supercomputer there . I welcome this statement , particularly the attempt to renew and refresh our key alliance and develop new partnership in strategic location across the world . clearly , the United States remain our most important defence and security ally , but we also have historic relationship with country such as India , where we have recently agree a very successful trade deal . in addition , the Royal Navy ' s Carrier Strike Group arrive in Singapore yesterday on a visit . in view of those relationship , will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster outline how the Government be strengthen our defence security relationship with key ally , such as India and Singapore , in the strategically important location of the Indo - Pacific ? my hon . friend be right that the UK Carrier Strike Group be in Singapore and he be also right to draw attention to the very important India trade deal that be reach by the Government just a few week ago . in recent month , we have reach trade agreement with the US , with the European Union and with India . many people think that that could not be do over a course of year , but it be do over a course of week . each one of those agreement will help to strengthen our economy and deepen our alliance with key ally . I note what the Minister say about social resilience . there be little point in strategise to defend our security and power in the world if we surrender our freedom and culture without a whimper at home . therefore , what will the Government do , for example , to stop the misuse of section 4 and 5 of the Public Order Act 1986 , not to mention the decision of the like of Bristol university and the Government with their propose Islamophobia definition , to create a de facto islamic blasphemy law in Britain ? the hon . Gentleman should have more faith in the depth and strength of british society . this be a society that have sustain robust debate over the year , and I think that it can do so in the future . it be a critical part of our national strength and a part of what make this country great . I pay tribute to british society for be so strong and for allow such robust debate . do the Minister agree that our energy security be fundamental to our national security , and , therefore , do he share my concern that Conservative Members now appear to disagree with the investment that we be make in energy security in this country ? if they disagree with the investment that we be make in nuclear , small modular reactor and great British Energy , they should stand up and say so . my hon . friend be absolutely right . when we make the decision to invest in new nuclear power , that be a contribution to our energy security . when we make the investment in other home - grow clean energy , that be a contribution to our national security . it be essential that , in this day and age , we have a broad view of national security , which understand our vulnerability and the importance of protect ourselves against they . the right hon . Gentleman mention new technology , such as AI and the expansion of our legal toolkit , but very little about the legal safeguard and domestic check and balance that be need . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster reassure I about what check and balance will be include to ensure that the civil liberty of UK citizen be protect at all cost ? of course we will protect civil liberty . there be a live debate about both security and opportunity in AI , and both be part of our strategy . let I be clear that we be on the threshold of something that have enormous possibility , and it be an area in which the UK have significant and deep strength . the strategy we publish today state that we should deepen our capability in these area to grow our sovereign capability and that that , in turn , will make we strong as a country . that be what we intend to do . Rolls - Royce Submarines in Derby , just outside my constituency , be a major employer of my constituent . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster confirm that the Government remain committed to the nuclear triple lock and comment on how today ' s announcement will support our nuclear manufacturing industry in the east midland ? I pay tribute to the work of Rolls - Royce and the contribution it make to our national security . I assure my hon . friend that our commitment to the nuclear deterrent as a cornerstone of our national security be right there as part of our national security strategy . labour have repeatedly state that food security be national security — a point with which I and many of my constituent wholeheartedly agree — yet there remain a clear disconnect between that rhetoric and the substance of current policy . beyond the announced biosecurity measure , do the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster genuinely believe that the national security strategy go far enough to address the resilience of domestic food supply chain , the risk pose by climate change to agriculture , and systemic vulnerability in our food system ? as I say a few moment ago , this Government have lift the cost , delay and bureaucracy burden on our food producer by reach an SPS veterinary agreement with the European Union that the Conservatives would never have reach because of their ideological objection to do so . the agreement be good for our farmer and food producer , and it be something that this Government have do . in this strategy , I read a number of encourage promise . I quote two of they : " control our border " and " control on immigration " . how will apply those two promise work out at the open border with the Republic of Ireland , which allow unfettered immigrant passage into the United Kingdom ? if we be go to control our border and control immigration , when be we go to start control that border ? the hon . and learn Gentleman will be aware that there have be a common travel area between Ireland and the United Kingdom for many year , which the previous Government and this Government be determined to keep . that be why there be an open border between the two country , as he say . I refer he to the immigration White Paper publish just a few week ago , which set out reform to the legal immigration system . immigration make an immense contribution to UK society , but we know that people want a proper set of rule around it , and that be what the immigration White Paper provide . I echo the comment make by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) about the Chinese Communist party . the national security strategy recognise that UK security be tie to that of our ally . do the Government acknowledge that last peace in Europe mean terminate Putin ' s european ambition in Ukraine , and if so , how will the Government get that through to the US Administration ? since the start of the Russia - Ukraine war , we have stand by Ukraine . the strategy set out the degree of support that this country have give Ukraine over the past four year . we continue to stand by Ukraine , and we continue to support its right to decide its own future . that will remain a core part of our strategy . with regard to China , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary will make a statement shortly set out the China audit in great detail . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) ask the question I have hope to ask , and the Minister sort of answer it , so I will ask a quite separate question . if the ambition be to reach spending at 5 % of gdp on defence and broad security by 2035 , what be the true current figure ? we know the figure for defence but not for wide security ; will it include MI5 , MI6 , GCHQ , counter - terrorism or , indeed , all of the police force across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the hon . Member ask what the be situation now . as the statement release overnight state , under the current definition of what we spend on core defence expenditure and broad security expenditure , the figure would be 4 . 1 % by 2027 , and we hope to grow from there . China Audit with permission , I will make a statement on the China audit . China ' s rise have shape the geopolitical landscape . over the past decade , its military expenditure double . its armed force become the world ' s large . it establish dominance over critical mineral supply chain . it pursue relentless innovation in electric vehicle , artificial intelligence and even space travel . over the same period , China have deliver a third of global economic growth , become the world ' s second large economy and , together with Hong Kong , the UK ' s third large trading partner . not engage with China be therefore no choice at all . China ' s power be an inescapable fact . after what the Intelligence and Security Committee in 2023 describe as a " completely inadequate " approach over the past decade to deal with China ' s " size , ambition and capability " , we must now look at the fact . Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton attempt a golden era . Boris Johnson let Huawei into our critical national infrastructure before u - turning . Liz Truss and Rishi Sunak decide that China be a threat but fail to devise any policy response , instead bury their head in the sand . this Government conduct an audit of our most complex bilateral relationship to deliver a long - term strategy , move beyond cheap rhetoric to a data - drive , cross - Government approach . I would like to thank the hundred who contribute to it , include hon . member , of course , and expert , business , diaspora community , devolve government and close ally . the audit be less a single act than an ongoing exercise that will continue to guide the UK ' s approach to China . it inform the Government ' s strategic defence review , which assess that China be a " sophisticated and persistent challenge " . it inform the national security strategy , publish today , which set out China ' s impact on each strategic pillar of UK national security . it have steer our trade and industrial strategy , which analyse where great engagement be possible , give the important role China can play in deliver UK growth . hon . member will understand that much of the audit be conduct at a high classification and that most of the detail be not disclosable without damage our national interest . I be therefore provide a broad summary of its recommendation today in a manner consistent with that of our five Eyes partner . on security , the audit describe a full spectrum of threat , from espionage and cyber - attack to the repression of Hongkongers and attack on the rule - base order . it make clear that our protection must extend more widely than they currently do — from the security of this House to our critical national infrastructure . hon . member will again recognise that disclose the detail of the response to those threat would undermine their effectiveness . however , I can confirm that follow the audit we be invest £ 600 million in our intelligence service ; update our state threat legislation follow Jonathan Hall ' s review ; strengthen our response to transnational repression ; introduce training for police and launch more online guidance to support victim ; launch , as announce in the industrial strategy , a 12 - week consultation on update the definition cover the 17 sensitive area under the National Security and Investment Act 2021 ; and work bilaterally with China to enhance intelligence flow relate to illicit finance specifically , organise immigration crime and scam centre , use new National Crime Agency capability . on global security , the audit underline the extent of Beijing ' s support for the Kremlin . the Government have already triple the number of chinese entity sanction for equip Russia ' s illegal war , and we will continue to confront that . the audit reiterate that our approach to China must stay rooted in both international law and deterrence . we will continue to confront China ' s dangerous and destabilising activity in the South China sea , which I see for myself when I visit the Philippines . we will continue to work with our regional partner to support freedom of navigation and call out China ' s abuse . we will double down on AUKUS . we will not change our long - stand position on Taiwan , while sustain unofficial but vibrant tie with Taiwan on trade , education and innovation . we will also never shy away from shine a spotlight on human right — notably the situation in Xinjiang and Tibet — while on Hong Kong we will insist that China honour its commitment under the sino - british joint declaration , include by repeal the national security law and release Jimmy Lai . the audit make it clear that our approach will always be guide by the UK ' s long - term economic growth priority . it provide ample evidence of the extent to which our economy be intertwine . China be our third big trading partner and our university ' second large source of international student . China will continue to play a vital role in support the UK ' s secure growth , but over the past decade we have not have the structure either to take the opportunity or to protect we from the risk that those deep link demand . business have tell we time and again that they have lack senior political engagement and adequate government guidance . we have already begin to develop new structure , include regular economic and financial dialogue with my right hon . friend the Chancellor , set we on course to unlock £ 1 billion of economic value for the UK economy and position the UK ' s world - lead financial sector to reflect China ' s importance to the global economy ; joint economic and trade commission ; and joint commission meeting on science . we will also launch a new online hub , bring together detailed and specific business advice . the forthcoming trade strategy will set out how we will support british firm to enhance link with China ' s vast and grow consumer market as well as assess new tool to keep good make by force labour anywhere in the world off Britain ' s high street . the audit recognise that China ' s global role do not fit into simple stereotype . China be the world ' s big emitter but also the big producer of renewable . it offer $ 80 billion towards development annually . it be also the UK ' s second large research collaborator : 11 % of british research output include chinese author . so the audit be clear : the UK must develop new dialogue with China on issue such as climate , development , global health and science , as well as on trade . in do so , we be drive our long - term interest and create secure opportunity for UK plc . we can not deal with China ' s complexity unless we improve our capability to understand it , for our national security and for secure trade and growth . the audit show that under the last government there be a profound lack of confidence in how to deal with China and a profound lack of knowledge regard China ' s culture , history and — most importantly — language . over the past year , I have find that far too few mandarin speak Mandarin . we be already take action to address that by introduce a new China fast stream in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , create an fcdo global China network and training over 1 , 000 civil servant on China policy in the past year . enhance those capability still far will be a core focus for the £ 290 million FCDO transformation fund announce in the national security strategy by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster a short time ago . the new strategy , which proceed from the audit , will ensure that the Government examine the full spectrum of interest in their decision - make process and deliver the consistent approach that be so sorely lacking . anyone expect a simple prescription on China be not live in the real world . the audit have paint a complex picture , but it have provide we with a clear way forward . the UK ' s approach to China will be found on progressive realism , take the world as it be , not as we would wish it to be . like our close ally , we will co - operate where we can and challenge where we must . never compromise on our national security , recognise the complexity of the world as it be , engage confidently , carefully and pragmatically , and deliver secure growth — those be the hallmark of grow - up government , act in the long - term national interest . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement , and I look forward to read the audit and receive the detailed briefing that clearly can not be put in the public domain . let we be clear : China think that its way be the good and only way , and its leader be on an international quest for global governance and for its frightening authoritarian model to supersede ours . Ours be one of democracy , openness and stand up for freedom and value . China have be ramp up its military with alarming conviction , include conventional nuclear and space capability , and it be a critical enabler of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine — we see President Xi stand side by side with Putin in Moscow just week ago — so be in no doubt that China and Russia be collaborate across all domain to undermine our very democratic freedom and the west . Beijing trample on the sino - british declaration in Hong Kong , threaten british national overseas passport holder on british soil and have imprison Jimmy Lai — a british national — through an awful , politically motivated trial . Beijing ' s unjustified aggression in the South China sea be dangerous , and it unacceptably intimidate and challenge the sovereignty of its neighbour in the Indo - Pacific . it be consistently and constantly threaten the peace - seek democracy of Taiwan while commit the most appalling human right abuse in Xinjiang . it also apply hybrid and grey - zone technique against Britain , include malign cyber - activity direct at our democratic institution and sanction our very own Members of Parliament , all the while exploit vulnerable country through its belt and road initiative . China also flagrantly brush aside economic rule and steal intellectual property . it have develop sophisticated model to acquire strategic asset around the world . despite all of that , it have take the Government a year to produce this audit , which seemingly fail to set out any kind of serious strategic framework . I think it be fair to say that we know why : it be because the government — in fact , the Foreign Secretary touch on this — have go cap in hand to China to bail out their terrible handling of the british economy . they be set up close economic tie with China while know very well that british business be struggle not just in compete against China , but to absorb the weight of Labour ' s own regulatory cost . we have not hear it in the statement , but can the Foreign Secretary name a single area where measurable , tangible progress have be make in advance critical british interest with China , whether on national security , economic practice , climate or human right ? he fail to mention that member of this House have be sanction by China . we have see sign of naivety from the government — consistently , if I may say so . [ interruption . ] within one day of the Prime Minister meet President Xi , he effectively hold that as an opportunity to bring about a strong and consistent relationship in which surprise would be avoid . within the following few day , 45 pro - democracy campaigner be jail in Hong Kong , follow a very harsh application of the draconian national security law . that be completely unacceptable . what be the Foreign Secretary ' s actual strategy to deter China from systematically extinguish freedom in Hong Kong ? will he commit to use the full weight of the Government machine to do more to protect bno and hongkonger who suffer outrageous transnational repression in the UK , rather than just issue guidance and training ? the Government have constantly and suspiciously back the application for China ' s new super - embassy in London . why be the Foreign Secretary and the Government not show the same backbone that their irish and australian counterpart show when they see fit to block embassy planning application from Russia , which they deem too risky for national security ? do the Government have a practical strategy to deter chinese effort to capture Taiwan by military mean or by stealth , or to oppose the human right abuse in Xinjiang ? what be the Foreign Secretary ' s end goal and what be the mean of get there ? what will he do to find new critical mineral supply chain in order to reduce reliance on chinese trade ? with that , what will the Government do now to move Jimmy Lai ' s case on to an urgent footing , away from the complex consular case handle that it seem to have in the Foreign Office ? the Government need to urgently sort out some of the grave contradiction mention in the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , and I will highlight a few . we hear he speak about the China audit underline " the extent of Beijing ' s support for the Kremlin . " we do not question or doubt that , but some action be need . the statement also say that the audit " reiterate that our approach to China must stay rooted both in international law and deterrence . " how do that help Jimmy Lai at this particular moment ? we will always support the security and the defence of our country , so the Government must do much more when it come to keep Britain safe from China . I know that the right hon . Lady can be pretty brazen , but a lecture from she about China policy should make even her blush . the conservative party oversee more than a decade of division , inconsistency and complacency towards China . there be no strategy , there be no plan and there be no sense of a national interest . the Intelligence and Security Committee , which be chair by the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , from her party , say that the action on China have leave Britain " severely handicapped " in manage our future security . the truth be that the right hon . Lady be at the centre of it . where be she during the ill - judge Cameron - Osborne golden age ? she be the Minister for the Treasury . where be she during the humiliating Huawei u - turn ? she be Home Secretary . the Tories have their head in the sand . under they , Britain ' s defence be weaken and our armed service hollow out . it be a Labour Government who be invest £ 600 million in our intelligence service to deal with those threat ; it be a Labour Government who be invest £ 290 million extra a year in our diplomatic capability in this area ; it be a Labour Government who be deliver the big increase in defence spending since the cold war ; and it be a Labour Government who be make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I refer the right hon . Lady to page 28 of the strategic defence review — she clearly have not bother to read it — which make it clear that we of course understand that China be a " sophisticated and persistent " threat . she talk about the embassy , but she should know , as a former Home Secretary , that it be a quasi - judicial decision that have be properly make by the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . the right hon . Lady talk about Jimmy Lai . I meet Sebastien Lai last week , and we have be raise the issue on every single occasion . a trial be ongoing , so let we see how it will complete . she raise transnational aggression . we be the one update our state threat legislation because the Conservatives leave the gap and do nothing when in power . she raise the situation in Russia and the Chinese supply Russia with dual - use good . who have do the sanction ? there have be five round of sanction under I as Foreign Secretary . what do the Conservatives do ? I will take no lecture on this subject from they , who know that , as a Government , they be find want on the question of threat from the Chinese . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . our relationship with China be most definitely a difficult one . on the one hand , it be our third big trading partner , but on the other hand , the national security strategy , on page 35 , say that there be an increase in espionage , China be undermine our economic security and interfere in our democracy , and that have increase over recent year . the Foreign Office need to hold the ring . the China audit need to be wide - ranging . it be an important piece of work . we be look forward to see it publish and to the Foreign Secretary come to talk to we — he say that he would — but instead we be look through a glass darkly , we do not know and we will not be able to see it . we want to be able to do our job properly and scrutinise this important piece of work . may I therefore suggest that the Foreign Secretary make available a reading room at the fcdo for Foreign Affairs Committee member and staff before his appearance on 8 July so that we can study the audit properly and hold he to account ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the interest that she have take with the China audit . I do say that I would update the Committee , and I look forward to appear before it and take question on this subject . in complete the audit , it have be important to remain consistent with our five Eyes partner . she will recognise why much of the audit have lead to a high level of classification . she will note , when she look across the G7 and other five Eyes partner , that many of they have handle their approach to China in the way that I have set out . I refer she to the strategic defence review and its content on China . I refer she to the national security strategy , which have just be publish , and its reference to China . I also refer she to the UK ' s industrial strategy and its reference to China , alongside the statement that I have just make . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . for year , UK government have fail to take seriously the challenge pose by China . the Conservatives fail to deliver even the semblance of a coherent approach to deal with Beijing . today , after month of wait for this audit , the Government ' s failure to publish a stand - alone document be immensely disappointing . will the Foreign Secretary set out how Members of this House , include those on the Intelligence and Security Committee and those on the front Benches with responsibility for foreign affair , defence and security , can be brief on the more sensitive element of the audit ? we on the liberal Democrat Benches recognise China for what it be : a threat to our value and interest . the Foreign Secretary be right that our approach must confront the fact as they be . they include China ' s hostility to the UK ' s ally and support for our adversary , its abuse of human right in Xinjiang and Hong Kong , the theft of intellectual property and its effort at transnational repression . instead of try to establish warm relation with President Xi , the Government should commit to clear red line on what they will not accept . for example , we have yet to receive a satisfactory explanation for why my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) be deny entry to Hong Kong when on a private visit to see her family . will the Foreign Secretary confirm what step he will take if Beijing refuse to give an assurance that mps will not be block from visit Hong Kong or China ? we now hear report that the Deputy Prime Minister be prepare to wave through Beijing ' s application for a propose mega - embassy in the heart of London . that be not a technical planning matter to be cloak in the veil of quasi - judicial power ; it be a matter of national security . opposition have be express by the United States and by pro - democracy Chinese and Hong Kong activist live in the UK , who already face chinese Communist party - sponsor bounty . have the Foreign Secretary meet those activist , and will he formally request that the mega - embassy application be block ? as I have say , this be a comprehensive audit of our relation with China , and for reason that the hon . Gentleman and other hon . member have raise consistently , there be important section of that audit that must remain classified . he mention the Intelligence and Security Committee ; as he would expect , mechanism be in place to allow that Committee to understand some of the detail , and to scrutinise they in the usual way . he mention the experience of the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . I want to make it clear that when I recently meet the Chinese International Minister and member of the Communist party , Mr Liu Jianchao , I raise that case , and our huge concern about its implication for the free travel of british citizen and democratically elect member of Parliament , not just in this country but across the world . the hon . Gentleman also mention the embassy and have question about security . those issue be precisely why the Home Secretary and I , advise by our security agency , write a letter on the issue of the embassy , raise the concern that would need to be address if the proposal be to move forward . and yes , of course I have meet activist who be campaign , particularly on the issue of transnational repression , and so have the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who deal with this issue and the Indo - Pacific . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Uyghurs and on Hong Kong , I have lose count of the number of response I have have from Ministers that have refer to today ' s audit . I hope the Foreign Secretary will forgive I if I take today as the start of a conversation , rather than the last word on these matter . he have again use his three cs mantra : compete and co - operate with China , and challenge it when need . I wonder if he understand that many Hongkongers , Uyghurs and other who be fight for freedom from or within the People ' s Republic of China worry that the order of that be deliberate , and that the " challenging " part be a low priority . what reassurance can he give to those group that commercial interest will not trump the responsibility to protect freedom and security , particularly of british Hongkongers ? can he confirm that the threat identify in the audit , and the national security challenge , will be feed into the decision making on whether to allow the embassy ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his championing on the APPGs , and for press these issue . I say in my statement that we will co - operate where we can but challenge where we must . I have consistently raise the situation of the Uyghur Muslims in meeting with counterpart , and I have encourage they to implement the recommendation on Xinjiang from the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights . genocide be a matter for the international court , but it be something that I and our ally in the G7 take very seriously indeed , and we will press this issue with the Government of China on every single occasion . first of all , before we go to the political knockabout , let I say that I have speak critically on this issue no matter who be in government ; let we settle that before we go on . I want to give the Foreign Secretary a quick audit of exactly what should have be say . China threaten Taiwan , have invade the South China sea and be have massive dispute with the Philippines . there be genocide , slave labour , organ harvesting and transnational repression . there have be attack on Hong Kong dissident here , and Hong Kong dissident be constantly under threat . there have be cyber - attack on the UK . China support Myanmar ' s repressive military regime and Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . it also support North Korea and Iran . it have trash the sino - british treaty on Hong Kong , arrest Jemmy Lai and place sanction on UK mps , and it thieve all the intellectual property from private company . what a record ! and what would we balance against that ? some potential trade ? this question have already be ask , in a way , but it be worth repeat . on the embassy decision , it be say clearly in the medium that China would not apply again after the refusal from Tower Hamlets unless it receive assurance from the UK Government . can the Foreign Secretary tell I that China have not receive any assurance ? or have it receive private assurance from the Government that it will get what it want , and will get this embassy ? let I express my respect for the right hon . Gentleman ' s expertise on the China threat . I acknowledge that he be subject to sanction ; I have consistently raise that point with China , note that it recently lift sanction against member of the European Parliament . I press it recently to do the same for member here . let I assure he that there be no grubby deal on any issue , and certainly not on the embassy ; I reject any suggestion to the contrary . he describe the context on China . I refer he to page 28 of the strategic defence review , which summarise the challenge well than he do . it state that China be " a sophisticated and persistent challenge . China be increasingly leverage its economic , technological , and military capability , seek to establish dominance in the Indo - Pacific , erode US influence , and put pressure on the rule - base international order . " we agree . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . I be the first to recognise , along with he , the need for pragmatism on this issue . he speak of our close ally . in Washington a couple of week ago , I hear about the Americans ' real concern about the super - embassy in London . they be ban chinese electric vehicle because of their autonomous and connected nature , which be an extraordinary move to consider make . I recognise that there be an economic need , but there be obviously political pressure as well . can member of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , which I chair , have access to the confidential document , so that we can be clear - eyed about what we face ? I be grateful for the work that my hon . friend do in this area , but I must maintain that there have not be that access under any Government , other than for those on the Intelligence and Security Committee , who have access to high - classification document , and for Privy Counsellors , who have access to conversation with the Government and official that they pledge to keep secret . the Government can not abandon those principle , which have consistently serve we well for many year under many government . on page 39 , the " National Security Strategy 2025 " state : " instance of China ' s espionage , interference in our democracy and the undermining of our economic security have increase in recent year . " just three page later , it talk about the importance of " create the basis for a reciprocal and balanced economic relationship " with China . do the Foreign Secretary recognise the inherent conflict between this Government ' s desire for close economic relation , and the chinese Government ' s desire to undermine our economy ? the paradox be important , but let I be clear that £ 600 million - worth of new investment in our intelligence service be an important development . investment in our capability , include new power and capability for the National Cyber Security Centre , be an important development , but be able to unlock £ 1 billion - worth of trade with our third big trading partner must also be central to our undertaking at this time . I welcome this statement , particularly as it have become clear that the Conservatives badly mismanage not just their policy towards China but our relationship with it over successive year . China offer economic opportunity , but also pose threat , as we have be hear . we also hear early in the statement on the national security strategy about the importance of partnership and alliance , include with key ally in the Indo - Pacific . do the Foreign Secretary agree that Boris Johnson ' s 2019 embracing of China ' s belt and road initiative be a serious diversion from the position of many of our democratic ally , many of whom see the belt and road initiative as a threat ? Prime Minister Johnson ' s record on China be shocking . it lead to the grave embarrassment of have to do a u - turn on Huawei , which would have be able to get into the most delicate of our telecommunications infrastructure . it be because of that that we undertake , while in opposition , to do a full audit . that audit be constantly ongoing , but I hope that my hon . friend will see its result reflect in the industrial strategy , the national security strategy and , of course , the SDR , which be publish recently . I enjoy play buzzword bingo when the right hon . Member present his statement . I remind he that the rebellion on Huawei be actually lead by Conservative Members , not labour . may I question the right hon . Gentleman about a meeting , which he refer to with a little more pride than I would have do ? it be the meeting with Liu Jianchao , who be personally responsible for Operations Fox Hunt and Sky Net , which , of course , concern transnational repression , the kidnapping of chinese citizen and their repatriation by force to mainland China . he do not seem quite as ashamed of that as I would have be . why have he still not make it clear that the first scheme , which the Conservatives leave intact and ready to go , will not yet be introduce for the whole of the chinese state , as it should be ? that be what it be design for . for all the word that we have hear , there be not a single practical outcome . it be all still waffle . I recognise , and it be right to put on the record , that Conservative Members , the right hon . gentleman among they , have raise significant issue over the past decade or so about the approach to China . that be why , in opposition , we say that we would do a full audit . he will recognise and welcome , I suspect , the extra investment in the intelligence service , and particularly in our national cyber capability . I see he nod . those be tangible outcome . that can not , on any analysis , be describe as waffle . before come to Parliament , I work in a buying department for a large international retailer . in my career , I see a move to source from China , and a rise in the popularity of retailer base in China . how will the audit work with the Department for Business and Trade to level the play field for UK manufacturer , give the import from China , particularly in the light of unfair trading practice , to protect our economic security and UK supply chain ? it be a good question , and I refer my hon . friend to the industrial strategy and the further work that we have to do on supply chain . from day one , this Government have take a big interest in global supply chain in critical mineral . together with many partner across the world , we be work with the Global Clean Power Alliance to create new supply chain , in order to deal with the issue that she have raise . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his effort in raise the issue of my being refuse entry to Hong Kong . I look forward to reassurance that no UK MP will be refuse entry to any chinese territory . the Foreign Secretary ' s statement mention that China be our university ' second large source of international student , and that include my university , the University of Bath . global academic exchange and the free flow of idea be at the heart of our liberal value and should be welcome , but should the Government not be aware of the fine balance that must be keep ? we should not allow young researcher and student access to certain knowledge that could ultimately be use against the UK . the hon . member be absolutely right that it be a fine balance . we need to invest more in our police capability , and that be an outcome of this audit . we need to continue to work with our university , so that they understand the threat in this area , as well as the opportunity . rise — order . member will be aware that we have three debate this afternoon , so I aim to finish this statement by 2 . 35 pm . may I say to the Foreign Secretary how much I welcome this China audit ? I would like to highlight one aspect in particular . as someone who study Chinese at university and live there for a year , I know how complex and different China can be , and the many misconception and ignorance around China have be a source of frustration for I . whatever anybody think of our relationship with China , it be absolutely vital that we have clear communication and that we deal with China from a position of knowledge . do the Foreign Secretary agree how important it be that the fcdo be upskilled to ensure that we have that knowledge of chinese culture and language skill , so we be fully prepared for the year ahead ? my hon . friend ' s question go to the heart of capability . we must have more diplomat with a fine understanding of China and more Mandarin speaker , and we be do that . sadly , the last Government cut the number of diplomat with that capability and understanding . we need to invest in the Great Britain - China Centre so that understanding of the culture be across our country , and she be absolutely right on that point . order . I also remind member that it would be helpful to have short question and answer . on the one hand , the Defence Secretary have tell the world that the UK will increase offensive cyber operation against China . on the other hand , the Deputy Prime Minister be push for a chinese super - embassy in London , which will be furnish with secret datum cabling . do the Foreign Secretary see any inconsistency in his Government ' s approach to China ? what I see be naivety on the behalf of the hon . Gentleman . first , to be clear , the Deputy Prime Minister have not make her quasi - judicial decision . it be wrong , and he should correct the record of the House because the decision have not be make . secondly , why would we want a situation in which the United States , under both government , can take the hard approach on China , but trade be up , and in which our G7 partner understand the risk and threat of China , but all their trade be up , when under the last government , we be in a situation where trade be down only for the UK ? that can not be right . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Secretary of State for his pragmatic approach . opposition be easy , but Opposition Members know that if they be in his shoe , they would be do exactly the same thing . Huawei have be mention a couple of time in pass . the reality be the guddle over it delay the roll - out of 5 g by three year and cost the economy £ 7 billion , which be just incredible and shameful , actually . I welcome the emphasis place on improve cultural link between the UK and China and , of course , our university be a key part of that . will the Foreign Secretary commit to ensure that our university have a say in how we establish well relationship between China and the UK ? I reassure my hon . friend that our university be able to contribute to our China audit . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Tibet , I welcome the fact that the Government have respond to human right situation in Xinjiang and Tibet . I would like to have see more about religious freedom , which include next week ' s birthday of the Dalai Lama — probably the most well - know Tibetan in the world . his future reincarnation should be for the people of Tibet , both inside and the diaspora . give the Tibetan diaspora , the Uyghur diaspora and Hong Kong national be under constant surveillance here by the Chinese Communist party , how do the Government plan to take the recently agree G7 definition of transnational repression and translate it into domestic law ? I remind the hon . Gentleman that , in December , we appoint my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) as the special envoy for freedom of religion and belief . he be right to raise the issue that we be aware of in Tibet . on transnational repression , we have a broad range of power to counter foreign interference and transnational repression , particularly under the National Security Act 2023 , which we will update . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and that answer . he will know that in Bracknell and the wide Berkshire area we have a large Hong Kong community , who have be terrify at the threat of national repression from the Hong Kong Government . what message can he share with my constituent about the protection available for they to enjoy the democracy and freedom of speech that we so value here in the UK ? the Minister for the Indo - Pacific have meet some of my hon . friend ' s constituent on this issue . because of the concern he rightly raise , I hope he will welcome the training for our police right across the nation on these issue . will the Government publish a list of sector consider overly dependent on chinese input , start with critical mineral and clean energy component , to promote transparency ? will the Foreign Secretary outline any clear Government target for reduce those dependency ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the power to counter foreign interference and transnational repression under the National Security Act . the Foreign Secretary mention Hong Kong in his statement . would he consider speak to colleague in the Home Office about rethink the change to indefinite leave to remain , to ensure BNO passport holder do not end up face question about their status ? that issue be still subject to consultation and will be announce by the Home Secretary in the usual way . the UK Government be still consider Mingyang as a credible supplier for turbine for the Green Volt offshore wind project , and the SNP Scottish Government have give Mingyang priority status for a factory to build turbine base in Scotland under their strategic investment plan . both say to I that neither Government be take seriously the threat that China pose to our energy supply . China be , at good , unreliable and , at bad , hostile and should be nowhere near our critical national infrastructure . will the Secretary of State finally rule out Mingyang be a permit supplier for energy infrastructure in the future or at least give we a date for when we will hear a decision ? through the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , we have a robust framework to make individual decision such as the one on Mingyang . as the hon . Lady know , energy be one of 17 priority sector under the NSIA in which Government can block any potential acquisition on security ground , and that remain under consideration . it be four year today since the Apple Daily cease publication , and Jimmy Lai still languish in Hong Kong ' s Stanley Prison . it be worth note his name and encourage the Foreign Secretary to raise his case as often as he can . it be welcome to see in the statement that we be " strengthen our response to transnational repression " . can the Minister confirm that that include restore access to the Mandatory Provident Fund , which be another way the Hong Kong Government be spread their chilling impact on BNO visa holder here in the UK ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that . may I also name - check the work of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) on this issue ? the issue be under consideration , and we have be discuss with community these very important pension issue . in his statement , the Foreign Secretary say that " our approach will always be guide by the UK ' s long - term economic growth priority " . as an example of that , he refer to our university ' second large source of international student be China , yet the Intelligence and Security Committee state in the press notice for its report on China , of which he approve : " China be similarly aggressive in its interference activity … China overstep the boundary . it have be particularly effective at use its money and influence to penetrate or buy Academia in order to ensure its international narrative be advanced and criticism suppress . " in answer to the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , he say that we look to the university to take precaution . give the financial incentive to university , I would rather look to someone else to take the precaution . the right hon . Gentleman be right : we do have to be vigilant . as I say , sit behind this audit be a lot of work at high classification . he will know that the Intelligence and Security Committee understand the nature of that work , particularly the work that sit behind the strategic defence review and the national security strategy . that be ongoing , and I be happy to ensure that he be aware of the work we be do with university . the Foreign Secretary have refer to protection in term of energy company , but when it come to Mingyang and Orient Cable in the highland and the North sea , the concern be not their ability to produce but their ability to switch off and on the network and our energy security and , as a result , national security . can he tell we what mitigate measure will be put in place if those contract be win ? I recognise the sensitivity and the import of what the hon . Lady say . that be central to the consideration and discussion that be under way within Government as we look at these issue and balance they against our national security . for week , some question on China have be deflect on the basis that we should wait for the audit , so it be rather disappointing that the insight we get today be very opaque . in the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , he reveal that China be the UK ' s second large research collaborator . have he do an audit of the nature of that research ? be there economic and intelligence risk from that research , and be the Government minded to take any step either to monitor or to control the extent of that research ? the hon . and learn Gentleman say that he would have like to hear more and the statement be opaque , but the other side of that coin be that it might be reassure that the Government be not make all of our intelligence capability and understanding available to China and the outside world . he will recognise that the big academic partner in that research be the United States , and give the way the economy of China have grow , certainly over my two decade in Parliament , it be not surprising that it have emerge as our second large . I want to reassure he that , of course , the agency be able to offer full advice to university and examine sensitivity , and we be very aware of the threat he have convey to the House . rise — for an example of a quick question , I call Sir Desmond Swayne . it be proper and lawful to send HMS Spey through the Taiwan strait in pursuit of vital international freedom of navigation in the South China sea , be it not , and can we see more like it ? yes , and yes . I want to remind the Foreign Secretary that the Government that invite Huawei into our telecommunications network be actually the last Labour Government between 2003 and 2006 . [ interruption . ] well , he have try to be partisan about it . the ebb and flow of these issue and the mistake go back quite a long time , and he should acknowledge that . what assessment have the Foreign Secretary make of China ' s dominance of the world market for cellular internet module , which be subsidise and sell internationally below the cost of manufacture ? what assessment in particular have he make of the insertion of kill switch in Chinese - make wind turbine and pv cell , and will he rule out any chinese involvement in our energy infrastructure ? I will take no lecture from the hon . Gentleman , whose advice to former Prime Minister May lead to the possibility of nuclear information be reveal . he should be embarrassed , and I be surprised he come to this statement this afternoon . give that China represent one of the defining geopolitical challenge of our age , I be somewhat sceptical about report this morning that this much - touted , long - await year - long audit have significantly downgrade that challenge . under this government , there have be a significant increase in ministerial engagement and visit with China , a policy that be at well incoherent and at bad incompetent . give that action speak louder than word , can the Foreign Secretary confirm that the Prime Minister will no long be make his propose trip to China ? the audit be a lot of work , and we have not even be in government for a year . we pledge to undertake an audit , we have undertake that audit and what I have set out be comprehensive . there can be no no - go area for the UK Prime Minister . the audit receive response from the devolved government . last month , the Northern Ireland Finance Minister meet the chinese consul general in Belfast . the meeting be describe as a formal diplomatic engagement with view exchange on deepen co - operation . significantly , there be no press interview , publicly release minute or full attendee list ; no specific sector or agreement be reference . Northern Ireland ' s foreign policy be not devolve , so do the Foreign Secretary know what be discuss or agree ? do he think he should know and will he ask ? as a response to the audit , do the Northern Ireland Executive include what be discuss in that meeting or previous meeting between the Chinese Government and the first and Deputy First Ministers ? the hon . Gentleman have put his view on the record , and I will consult my official about what he have reveal . I call Jim Shannon to ask the final question . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . it be essential that we have a full understanding of the reach of China , as well as of our goal . british citizen have contact I about the human right violation , not only against those in China but those who live on our shore . will the Foreign Secretary ensure that China understand that its reach stop before our shore , and that our people be entitle to think and have freedom of speech whenever they desire , without any fear of reprisal ? the hon . Gentleman be right . we will always fight and press for our democratic norm . we can not accept repression , oppression and criminal act commit in our own country . we will stand up to they , and I have make representation to my chinese interlocutor to make that completely clear . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your advice about the exchange that I have just have with the Foreign Secretary . after he have be incredibly partisan about the history of Huawei ' s involvement in our telecommunications infrastructure , I point out that that involvement begin under the previous Labour Government when he be a Minister , but he try to accuse member on the Conservative Front Bench of something similar . I ask a serious question about the chinese dominance of the world market for cellular internet module , which be a very serious issue . we have all grow use to the fact that we do not get answer in this House , so perhaps you will advise we , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether Ministers will do so . the Foreign Secretary then decide to abuse and insult I personally about advice that he claim that I give , in a previous role , to a former Prime Minister . he have no idea what advice I give in that job . if he care so much about my personal history , he will read all the thing I have ever write about the role of chinese company in our energy infrastructure . I would like he to take the opportunity to withdraw the accusation . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . what he refer to be a matter of debate and nothing disorderly occur . this be not a matter for the Chair , but I would urge that good temper and moderation be follow at all time in this Chamber . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a matter of record that former Prime Minister May be consider matter that pertain to our nuclear capability . the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) be an adviser at that stage , and she have to withdraw her recommendation on the China General Nuclear Power Group . that be a matter of record , and anyone in this Chamber can google it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . while the Foreign Secretary be sit here , I think it relevant to record that we have just hear that the American Government have put in a second disapproval , for security reason , to the granting of a chinese embassy in the propose location . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order , but as he know , that be not a matter for the Chair . he have put his comment on the record . planning ( Flooding ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the consideration of flood risk in the planning process ; to make internal drainage board statutory consultee for certain planning decision ; and for connected purpose . during this Parliament , we have hear a lot about the problem in the planning system . in particular , the Government have speak about the blocker — those who , for reason that the Government seem not to understand , oppose development they see as bad for their community . this Bill intend to go some way to fix the Government ' s problem . in reality , the reason that many people in our community become blocker be that they have no faith that the planning system will deliver house that make their life well . they be hard - work people , but rather than listen to their concern , the Government have seek to bash they at every turn . one of the big problem in the planning system be the total failure of many local authority — as a councillor , I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — to properly understand and consider flood risk in new development . policy that the Government think ought to be sufficient to prevent development on floodplain in all but exceptional circumstance , for example , be be circumvent by developer . due to lack of suitable expertise in planning , we see such development often go ahead without suitable drainage infrastructure to protect our community from flooding . what do this all mean ? it mean that many community in Mid Bedfordshire and across the country who have do the right thing , and take the house that the Government want they to take , now find themselves with a high flood risk , while developer have get away high and dry with their profit . when they stand ankle - deep in water in their once dry living room and desperately attempt to stop the next bad development make their situation bad , the Prime Minister call they blocker . we be let they down . this be not a hypothetical situation — it be happen in our community in Mid Bedfordshire right now . take the village of Maulden , historically develop as a linear settlement run along the greensand ridge , where developer see an opportunity to develop up the slope of the ridge . that upslope development have cause a huge increase in flooding in Maulden , to the point that home that have stand for century with minimal flooding have now be reclassify by the Environment Agency as be within flood plain . be the developer stop there ? of course not . another 40 hectare of land have be put forward for development around Maulden as part of the call for site for the next central Bedfordshire local plan . who gain from plan like this ? it certainly be not the hard - work people who already live in Maulden , who save up to buy the house that they have be dream about and wish to be able to peacefully enjoy it , without have to worry about get sandbag out every time grey cloud form overhead . it be not the people who work hard to get their new - build home in Maulden , only to discover the planning system let they down and allow developer to get away without build the right protection for their home from flooding . it be not the Government , who be leave puzzle as to why all these people be oppose their plan to build thousand more home in our community . the only people who gain be the big box developer who have throw up the house with minimal restriction and mitigation , and take their profit whilst our community pay the price . Maulden be just one example , but there be many place in Mid Bedfordshire and across the country where our planning system have fail the people who need it most — the people we serve . that be what this Bill will try to fix , start by ensure that where we have an internal drainage board — expert on flooding and flood management — we take advantage of their expertise and make they a statutory consultee on development that be likely to have an impact on flood risk in the broad area they cover . many internal drainage board be already contribute to that work by make representation on planning application , but put they on a statutory footing would ensure that their advice be give the consideration it deserve and would cost we nothing . this Bill will make a simple amendment to schedule 4 to the Town and Country Planning ( Development Management Procedure ) ( England ) Order 2015 to insert internal drainage board as a statutory consultee in the planning system . it will also ensure that we take the politic out of protect people from flooding by ensure that the Secretary of State may remove internal drainage board as a statutory consultee only if they replace they with an alternative body , which should provide advice on flood risk . the Environment Agency already act as a statutory consultee on planning matter that impact on flood plain , but it lack the resource to effectively and efficiently identify flood risk more broadly . that be why internal drainage board , where they exist , should be bring into the planning process to complement its role and ensure that proper consideration be be give to the flooding implication of development for current and future resident . this Bill will also ensure that planning authority give appropriate weight to flood risk in the planning system and prevent developer avoid their obligation to build liveable home rather than just their own profit . it will introduce a simple presumption against development where the lead local flood authority , the Environment Agency and / or the internal drainage board , consider that the development would increase flood risk for exist property when take into account sustainable drainage infrastructure and flood mitigation measure . the Bill would require the Secretary of State to publish statutory guidance , prepare by a panel of expert , for planning authority and lead local authority on the minimum expect standard for drainage and maintenance in new development . it would build on recent Government announcement on build - out rate and give planning authority the ability to reject future planning application from developer on the basis of past failure to deliver or maintain sustainable drainage infrastructure . we must do well for the hard - work people in our community who want to return from work to a warm , dry home . that be the least they deserve , and I present this Bill for they . question put and agree to . order , that Blake Stephenson , David Simmonds , Nick Timothy , Mr Gagan Mohindra , Dr Ben Spencer , Sarah Bool , Alison Griffiths , Jack Rankin , Rebecca Paul , Lewis Cocking and Paul Holmes present the Bill . Blake Stephenson accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 270 ) . estimate Day - [ 2nd Allotted Day ] estimate Day Department for Education [ relevant document : Second Report of the Education Committee , Scrutiny of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , HC 732 , and the Government response , HC 925 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 10 June , 13 May , 29 April , 11 March , 25 February and 28 January , on solve the SEND Crisis , HC 492 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 3 June , 23 April and 25 March , on Further Education and Skills , HC 666 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 8 April , on Higher Education and Funding : threat of Insolvency and International Students , HC 807 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 18 March , 11 February , 21 January 2025 and 17 December 2024 , on child ' s social care , HC 430 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 15 January , on the work of the Department for Education , HC 540 ; write evidence to the Education Committee , on solve the SEND Crisis , report to the House on 17 June , 10 June , 3 June , 20 May , 13 May and 25 March , HC 492 ; correspondence from the Education Committee to the Minister for School Standards , on Government Policy on SEND , report to the House on 11 March 2025 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department for Education : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 50 , 874 , 837 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 17 , 317 , 202 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 66 , 974 , 384 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Catherine McKinnell . ) I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I rise to address the House on the Department for Education ' s main estimate for 2025 - 26 . I thank the Liaison Committee and the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this debate this afternoon ; it be an important opportunity to scrutinise the Government ' s spending plan , which must deliver for every child , young person and family . education be the bedrock of opportunity , social mobility and economic growth . the Government inherit a situation in which almost every aspect of the Department for Education ' s area of responsibility face severe challenge , from the financial pressure on early year provider to the erosion of school budget and teacher pay , the crisis in the special educational need and disability system , underfunding of further education and skill and a total reset need in child ' s social care . my hon . friend be give a really important speech on a subject that be very dear to my heart , as everyone in the House know . will she add to her list the huge issue that we inherit with school building ? as a former teacher — I have mention that a few time — I know that the learn environment be really important . we inherit a real issue with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , for example , but there have also be other issue , such as those face by Sir Frederick Gibberd college in my constituency . my hon . friend make an important point about the state of the school estate . the final area of challenge be that many university face a risk of insolvency . at the heart of all the Department ' s responsibility be individual child and young people who need and be entitle to the good possible start in life , secure foundation , a great education and every opportunity to grow into active citizen with successful career and a good quality of life . the challenge in our education and social care system can be see in the outcome for child and young people , with rise number of child not meet the early learn goal when they start school , grow disadvantage gap at all stage of education , very poor outcome for care - experienced young people , rise level of school absence and far too many child with special educational need and disability not receive the support that they need to thrive in education . I will speak to the estimate across five key spending area — SEND , child ' s social care , early year , skill , and high education — draw on the Education Committee ' s ongoing inquiry to ensure that these fund meet the urgent need of our community . on special educational need and disability , the main estimate reflect the Government ' s recognition of the challenge , with an immediate increase in high need revenue funding of more than £ 1 billion . capital spending for high need provision see a 138 % uplift , from £ 310 million to £ 740 million , to create new school place . during the inquiry , my Committee have hear powerful testimony from family and educator about the crisis in the SEND system , with witness call for significant and far - reach reform to ensure that fund translate into effective delivery for child . the Institute for Fiscal Studies warn that rise SEND cost could absorb much of the mainstream school budget uplift , and that capital investment , while significant , may not meet grow demand . the forthcoming school White Paper promise this autumn must set out bold reform , with resource make available to ensure that they can be implement successfully . our inquiry report will set out recommendation to the Government for reform of the SEND system , and I hope that the Government will make time to take full account of our work . I urge the Minister to confirm a timescale for those reform , inform by our Committee ' s evidence . our child ' s social care inquiry have expose acute funding pressure , with local authority force to prioritise crisis intervention over preventive support due to a £ 1 . 2 billion cut in early intervention spending since 2012 . the spending review introduce a £ 555 million transformation fund over three year , include £ 75 million in 2025 - 26 and £ 270 million for a new child ' s social care prevention grant . that be a vital step towards effective reform . the additional £ 560 million for child ' s home and foster care placement be also welcome . however , the independent review of child ' s social care estimate a need for an additional £ 2 . 6 billion of funding over four year . my Committee ' s work underscore the urgency of invest in early intervention to reduce the number of child be take into care and to improve outcome . I be really grateful for the work of the Education Committee , which be excellently chair by my hon . friend . do she agree that cut the value of grant to family from the adoption and special guardianship support fund will put more pressure on child ' s social care and leave child without the vital support they need ? I thank my hon . friend for her important work in this area . I agree that the cut make to the adoption and special guardianship support fund have cause great alarm across the adoption , special guardianship and kinship care community . it be important that in review that funding , the Government look at how effective support for adoptive family can be provide across both health and education , and look to give family confidence that the support they rely on and that be need can be deliver . we know that in the past , adoptive family have not always be able to access the support they need , so I agree with my hon . friend that this be an urgent and important consideration . I call on the Government today to provide a clear analysis of the funding that be need for child ' s social care , as well as plan to bridge the gap between the funding that have be announce to date and the £ 2 . 6 billion prescribe by the independent review , so that preventive service that keep family together can be prioritise . turn to early year education , the expansion to 30 hour of fund childcare for under - five from September 2025 be transformative . the main estimate allocate £ 8 . 48 billion to the early year block — nearly double the 2023 - 24 spend — with an additional £ 1 . 8 billion in 2025 - 26 . however , the IFS highlight that higher than expect take - up could increase cost by £ 1 billion annually , and the sector face a shortfall of 70 , 000 place and 35 , 000 staff . the £ 370 million for 3 , 000 new nursery in primary school be a very positive step , but the Committee have hear concern about delivery timeline and workforce shortage . give the rise cost to provider , include minimum wage and national insurance increase , I urge the Minister to clarify how the Department will ensure sufficient capacity and support provider to deliver this ambitious expansion on time . it be also important that the Government give careful consideration to improve quality and consistency in the early year , and to how good to ensure that high - quality early year education maximise the unique opportunity in the first 1 , 000 day of a child ' s life to stop the impact of disadvantage be embed for a lifetime . on skill and further education , the 12 . 7 % increase in the apprenticeship budget to just over £ 3 billion , alongside £ 1 . 2 billion annually by 2028 - 29 and £ 625 million for construction skill , signal the Government ' s commitment to equip young people for a change economy . in our inquiry , however , my Committee hear concern about the defunding of level 7 apprenticeship , with witness include the British Chambers of Commerce warn that it could limit high - level opportunity and deter participation . the absence of detail on the lifelong learning entitlement in the spending review be also of concern . the forthcoming post - 16 skill and education White Paper must provide a unified and comprehensive vision for skill fund for young people and adult . I urge the Government to reconsider their decision on level 7 and to set out how additional funding will be allocate to maximise impact . finally , high education face significant challenge , with a 13 % real - term cut to direct teaching funding via the strategic priority grant , which be now more than 80 % low than 2010 - 11 level . my Committee have hear evidence of university close course , reduce repair and maintenance , and face financial instability . the Office for Students ' 2025 report warn of decline performance , with recovery reliant on optimistic recruitment forecast . while the modern industrial strategy promise well target funding , our university — which be anchor institution support thousand of job in every town and city that have a university — need urgent support . I therefore repeat the sector ' s call for a transformation fund to stabilise university and enable they to deliver the reform that be necessary to ensure that they meet future skill need and continue to contribute to economic growth through research and development and the role they play in build international collaboration . the Education Committee will continue to scrutinise the work of the Department for Education carefully and hold the Government to account , ensure that these fund deliver for every child and every learner . I urge Ministers to act swiftly on the promise White Papers , engage with our inquiry , and translate investment into meaningful change . education be our most powerful lever to bring about a fair , strong country ; let we ensure that it deliver . this debate be a very important opportunity to discuss the upcoming cut in the Department for Education . we know from the estimate document that overall resource departmental expenditure limit be come down . we be tell that that be largely a technical change as a result of change to the student loan book , but I have to say that these be rather large number to come from such technical change . from the comprehensive spending review document , we know that like other Departments , the Department for Education have agree to 5 % in saving and efficiency . what that document do not explain , however , be 5 % of what . presumably , it be not 5 % of the entirety of the DFE ' s budget , because the DFE be different from many other Departments in that so much of its spend go directly to school , college and early year setting provide for child . accord to the estimate , the DFE ' s admin spend be actually increase . part of that , of course — in line with so many other private and public sector organisation across the country — be the extra cost impose by the increase in national insurance contribution , so what be those efficiency ? I hope the Minister will be able to tell we today . so many thing have already be cut , include the discretionary spend that help child to achieve their good , with everything from Latin to computer science and the cadet programme . I do not think there be many more thing that can be take out , but perhaps the Minister can tell we . in particular , I would like she to reassure we that the primary physical education and sport premium be safe . will she please do that in wind up ? in the past few day , a headteacher in my constituency have tell I that their school ' s funding be go down significantly in real term this year . they say that they be now look at a crisis , with potential staff cut come . on top of that , I have hear local provider of early year education say that they be be even more punitively hit , because private sector provider receive no support with national insurance . do my right hon . friend agree that , for a Labour Government who come in promise to do so much for education , our child be actually see very little ? my right hon . friend make powerful point , include about the additional unfunded cost pressure for nursery provider — of course , that argument also extend to regular state - fund school . the one thing I might quibble with be his statement that this Labour Government come in promise to do so much for education . actually , the labour manifesto be rather light on commitment on education . the big one be , first of all , the commitment to roll out mental health support team to cover all school in the country . on close examination , that commitment turn out to be not just similar to , but identical to , the policy of the previous Government , which be to roll out mental health support team to cover all school in the country . the second high - profile commitment be about breakfast club . the math on breakfast club be something of a mystery to I , because I have hear Ministers repeatedly say that have a breakfast club be go to save parent £ 450 a year , but they be reimburse school £ 150 a year . where be the rest of that money suppose to come from ? it be also true that some school — include some in my constituency — already have a breakfast club that be charge at a reasonable rate , so they will lose revenue from their exist breakfast club . before anyone say , " you have to think about whether it should be charge for or not , " it be worth remember that the breakfast club provision that already exist be typically reimbursable for family on universal credit at a rate of up to 85 % , to the extent that it be childcare that be enable parent to go to work . then , of course , there be the famous — or infamous — commitment to 6 , 500 additional teacher . colleague might remember that that commitment be go to be pay for by the receipt on vat from private school . the Government now say that vat from private school be go to pay for housing , not for teacher . it be not clear that that policy be go to raise much revenue to spend on anything , give that the most recent figure show a fall in the number of child at independent school . those be the Government ' s own figure . [ interruption . ] I beg your pardon ? a rise in the number of independent school . the most recent figure — the Government ' s own figure — show a fall of 11 , 000 in the number of child at independent school . of course , the number of teacher in the state sector be not go up in this country ; it be come down . the Government have try to have this every possible way . there be a line in their manifesto that be very clear — it come up more than once . it say that Labour be go to recruit " 6 , 500 new expert teacher in key subject " . when ask repeatedly what key subject they have in mind , they refuse to say . eventually they say that these teacher will be recruit — I think be I quote this correctly , but if not absolutely accurately then pretty close — from school and college across the country . then some number come out show that the number of teacher in primary school have go down . funnily enough , the target be then redefine so that it do not include primary school teacher ; it would include only secondary school teacher . that bring we back to this question : if it be only secondary school , where teacher have specialist subject , what be the key subject that will count towards this number ? if the Government just mean any subject , the word " key " would not be there . what do they mean by expert teacher ? if they mean simply teacher with qualified teacher status — [ interruption . ] I think the Minister might be ready herself to intervene . indicate dissent . no ? if the Government simply mean teacher with qualified teacher status , then I gently remind the Minister of something we cover in Bill Committee , which some colleague might recall . the number of teacher today who do not have qualified teacher status be 3 . 1 % , which do not sound all that high . what do colleague suppose it be in May 2010 , the previous time that there be a change of Government ? the answer be 3 . 2 % . so the number of teacher without qualified teacher status have hardly change , and to the extent that it have , it have slightly go down . we know that other RDEL — revenue spending , effectively — be go up , but it have to cover an awful lot . there be £ 1 billion - plus in national insurance contribution cost . we know from report from teacher and headteacher in the sector press that shortfall in the range of 10 % to 35 % be be report . school supplier be also face high national insurance contribution , which will also have a knock - on effect on the cost of other service into those school . school be also pick up the cost of breakfast club , and there be an extension in free school meal eligibility and so on . overall , if we look at the detail in the estimate and the spending review , all these increase be front - loaded — that be to say , for 2024 - 25 the increase be 6 . 8 % , but that then come down to 5 . 2 % the follow year , and then 3 . 4 % , then 2 . 1 % , and then 1 . 6 % . the main point I put to the Minister — constructively and co - operatively — be that thing be change significantly in school because of demographic change . we have reach a point where I do not believe it be legitimate to use the measure of real - term per pupil funding as the yardstick for whether effective school resourcing be increase or decreasing . that be because the number of pupil will fall . we know already from TES , which use to be call the Times Educational Supplement , that surplus secondary place have increase by some 50 % in just two year . labour mp may well argue — and I kind of hope they do — that when there be a small number of child there will obviously be less funding , and there be some logic to that argument , but in a sense it do not matter what argument they make in this Chamber , because back in their constituency , if they talk to headteacher , they will hear something different . when pupil number be rise , if real - term per pupil funding be hold constant , that be a net increase in resource to the school . when number be fall , and even if real - term per pupil funding be increase by a few per cent , that feel very much like a cut . let we think about it in the follow practical term . if a primary school class of 27 go up to 29 , that be an increase in revenue to the school of something like £ 10 , 000 , £ 11 , 000 or £ 12 , 000 , but the vast majority of cost do not change . it work the same way in reverse . if a class move from 29 pupil to 27 , the school lose £ 10 , 000 to £ 12 , 000 , but there be still the same cost , and the teacher be still be pay the same and so on . in an urban setting , some whole school may close — some already have . that be a painful process to go through , and no MP want to represent an area where school close , but at least that way the number can be make to work over a wide area , and some of those school can convert to nursery school , I hope , or to special school . a big secondary school might reduce , say , from an eight - form entry to a six - form entry and manage the number that way . for a rural primary school , neither of those thing be an option . there be major indivisibilitie . right now , 92 % of DFE funding for school be drive by pupil number , and I just do not think that will work over the year ahead . what will minister do to reform funding so that it be fair and effective at a time of fall overall pupil number ? rise — I be go to start with an immediate four - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to speak in this estimate day debate . I will first declare my usual interest , as my wife be employ as a special educational need co - ordinator in our local authority in the London borough of Bexley . I will start with three point about the impact on my constituency . first , I welcome the condition improvement funding , which will see investment in Fairford academy in Barnehurst , Peareswood primary school in Slade Green and Townley grammar school in Bexleyheath . two specific Department for Education - lead issue impact on my Conservative - control local authority in the London borough of Bexley . I be pleased to see in its recent representation that my council welcome the " fix the market " pillar in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . it have the high overspend of any local authority in London for child ' s social care in the previous financial year . my local authority welcome that move in the Bill , because it want the market for child ' s service placement to be not - for - profit , as see in Scotland and Wales . will the Minister comment on departmental funding for social care setting and how the measure be bring forward in the Bill can help local authority ? my main point be that I support what my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) say about SEN funding . my local authority sign a safety valve agreement with the previous Government because of the rate of our dedicated school grant . in its recent submission to the Chancellor , the council say that although it be grateful for the current funding , the statutory override for the deficit end on 31 March 2026 , while the DSG be not plan to come out of deficit until 2028 - 29 at present . that safety valve agreement , which my local authority sign , continue to be overspent , which continue to put significant pressure on the council . it believe that the statutory override need to be extend by up to three year . despite have agree that with the previous Government , the council ' s position be that the statutory override be , at good , only a temporary solution to a more fundamental and long - term challenge for SEN funding . I know the Minister will be bring forward proposal in this area after the summer break , but some comment later today and some assurance about SEN funding go forward would be deeply welcome by my local authority and by I . I welcome the investment for our teacher , school building , free school meal and SEND support , but I remain concerned about SEND provision in Somerset . I know from personal experience and from listen to constituent just how much of a difference give SEND child the support they need can make . teacher go above and beyond to give child in their class the education they deserve , but we have a SEND system in crisis . it feel like we have go backwards from when I be at school , which be , I be sorry to say , thank to the cut make under the previous Conservative Government over many year . as in so many other area of life , parent in Yeovil be often leave with a losing draw in a postcode lottery , wait month to get the support their child deserve . there be two really effective way that the Department can invest its budget to improve the outcome for SEND child at school . the backlog for education , health and care plan be too high in Somerset , and it be of course right that Somerset council receive more money to urgently support EHCP provision , but not every SEND child need an EHCP for support . instead , we urgently need universal screening for neurodiverse condition at primary school . that would be a fantastic way of empower teacher to identify the individual need of child in their class and to adapt their teaching . I speak to lot of special educational need co - ordinator in many school in and around my constituency , and they always tell I that the early the diagnosis , the well , and the more a child can be put on a path towards effective learning . do my hon . friend regret , as I do , the loss of sure Start centre , which be one of the very good way of identify those learn condition as early as possible ? I totally agree . it be sorry to see that so many of those centre have go , and we need to invest more . the early that child ' s need be identify and support , the more likely they be to succeed . researcher , for instance at University College London , have already develop a screener that go far beyond the current phonic screening , and it be really cost - effective . I hope that the Government ' s school White Paper , which be due in the autumn , will set out a plan for roll out such screener across school . once child ' s need have be identify at school , we need to ensure that our teacher be fully equip to help . that be why we urgently need well internal teacher training and continuous professional development for teacher and other education professional , include teach assistant and senior staff . we must also ensure that senco be represent on senior leadership team , and be give dedicated time to do their work properly . I hope that the Minister or the Secretary of State will update we on the progress make on teacher training , and tell we when we can expect those teacher to be roll out . there can be no well investment in the future of our country than investment in education and young people . ensure that everyone have a good - quality education and career always provide a return , as I know from my personal background of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and dyslexia . I leave school have have support , but I be severely bully , to a point where I be spray with deodorant and set alight when I get off the school bus , so I know how vital such support be . without the support that I be give at school , I would not be here today : I would either be in prison or I would have take my own life . this be so important — so please , let we get on with universal screening and teacher training for neurodiverse condition . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) for share that traumatic experience with we , and to the bravery that it must have take . I also pay tribute to teacher in my constituency . I meet secondary head just before Christmas , and will meet all our primary school head together in the come month . I be proud that there be so much to welcome in this estimate . I particularly welcome the capital investment in school across the country , which I think present a dual opportunity — not just an opportunity to rebuild the crumble school that be leave to we by our Tory predecessor , but an opportunity to invest to make they green , so that increase energy efficiency can save money and reduce school bill . I welcome the extra £ 1 billion to reform and enhance special educational need and disability provision , and I look forward to more announcement about SEND — I share some of the concern mention by my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) . I welcome the investment in further education and apprenticeship , and the breakfast club funding . I congratulate the Ministers , because this mean that child will stop go to school hungry and will be give the good chance to learn regardless of their background . the club be be brilliantly pilot by Pott Shrigley church school in my constituency and Disley primary school , where I go myself . I particularly welcome the funding that have be allocate in the spending review to expand eligibility for free school meal , which mean that an extra 1 , 200 child in Macclesfield will receive free lunch . each one will mean a life change and a trajectory alter , break down barrier to opportunity and success . however , what the estimate do not contain be a significant real - term increase for Cheshire East school . head teacher in my constituency still tell I that thing be tough because of an historical funding formula that leave Cheshire East as one of the lowest - fund authority in the country . it receive the 13th low share of DSG per mainstream pupil — five grand less than the high share , and £ 2 , 200 less than the high non - London authority . the high need block be bad : we rank 12th out of 151 local authority , receive two and a half grand less per pupil than the 151st . this be entirely explain by the school funding formula , and it be an important formula . school in metropolitan area be more expensive to run . of course school should receive additional investment base on deprivation , language need or rurality , but when the basic grant funding do not keep pace with basic cost , thing become very tough . Macclesfield be not quite rural enough and not quite deprived enough , without the " English as an additional language " number require , which make life very difficult for head teacher who be try to balance the book — particularly after 14 year of make cut after cut . the funding formula work only if there be a significant increase in the basic entitlement , so that all school , whether in Cheshire East or elsewhere , have a budget that be sufficient to make end meet . I say that because I have difficult conversation with teacher in my constituency , some of whom be spend as much as 88 % of their budget on fix staff cost because they be have to retain — and want to retain — hard - work , talented teacher who , in the long run , be more expensive . I recently see an example of that at Rainow , an excellent primary school in my constituency , which have full class but be find it difficult to make the number work . I be grateful for my recent meeting with the Minister to discuss these issue with she , and I welcome the work that the Department be do in tackle they . Change do not come overnight , and change a funding formula as historic as this can not be do overnight , but I hope that everyone who support fairness and agree that deprived area should receive more fund will also agree that every school deserve to receive the basic funding that will enable all our child to be teach , and will ensure that they be not at school that be find thing tough . I will make no apology for continue to fight , on behalf of all my constituent , for fair funding for all school . the Government have set themselves an ambitious and welcome growth mission , with target include an 80 % employment rate and support for 65 , 000 additional learner a year by 2028 - 29 . however , some of the decision make of late somewhat undermine those objective . along with Liberal Democrat colleague , I recently write to the Government express grave concern about the cut in the adult skill fund , and the impact that they will have on the Government ' s economic growth plan . in her response , the Minister for Skills assure we that adult education be very much a priority . the Government ' s recent announcement about skill fund in the spending review be most welcome , but there be a troubling contradiction in commit to support 65 , 000 additional learner a year while simultaneously cut the adult skill fund . the Government have invest £ 625 million to train 60 , 000 skilled construction worker , recognise that target skill investment drive economic growth ; that logic should surely apply across all sector face skill shortage . we have no clarity on any improvement in post - 18 adult education funding . Mark Robertson , the principal of Cambridge Regional College , which serve my constituency , have say that the cut in the adult skill fund will mean a £ 1 million drop in funding for his college , which be unable to meet demand for programme include healthcare course , employability training and adult English and math skill course because of the lack of available funding . he have warn that the position will be considerably worsen for 2025 - 26 , because the college ' s adult skill funding will fall by about 20 % . he have say : " it seem a little counterproductive that , give the drive to reduce immigration to the UK of social care worker by 2028 and the need to train and retrain people employ in area such as digital skill and retrofit technique , these priority be not align with a fully join up policy regard adult skill funding to enable the need for trained and skilled worker to be meet . " the disconnect between growth ambition and the funding reality also extend to our university , which face huge financial pressure and , in some case , a grow risk of insolvency . datum release recently suggest that up to 72 % of high education provider could be in deficit by 2025 - 26 without mitigate action . the cause of this situation be well document , so I will not go into they , but a combination of factor make it inevitable that more institution will be force to make difficult decision on staffing across all job in the sector , and the economic consequence will extend beyond the campus . as we know , university be often the large employer in their area , and the knock - on economic benefit of student live in the area be substantial . on the doorstep of my constituency be Cambridge University , but we also have Anglia Ruskin University , which deliver over 5 , 000 degree apprenticeship between 2018 and 2023 , as many member will recognise . I urge the Government to look closely at further education and high education funding , and to lay out their plan in more detail . rise — Order . I want to try to get everybody in , so we will have an immediate three - minute time limit . I start by pay tribute to all those who work with our child and young people , be it in our nursery , school , college or university . as the Member for Wolverhampton North East , a member of the Education Committee and a former deputy headteacher , I want to speak frankly about the urgent need for education spending to be tailor to local need , because that need be undeniable in constituency like mine . maintain the system as it stand be not an option . we must build an ambitious education system that actively identify challenge and intervene early on , and it be not enough to focus only on academic outcome . our education system must also equip young people with the skill , confidence and resilience that they need to be prepare for the grit of life and the world of work . around 40 % of child in Wolverhampton and Willenhall grow up in poverty , and there have be a stark increase in the last decade . these reality hit education hard . in 2024 , just 46 % of disadvantaged pupil in England meet the expect standard at key stage 2 , compare with 67 % of their peer . at GCSE , the gap be stark : few than one in four student on free school meal in Wolverhampton achieve a strong pass in both English and math . do the hon . Member agree that it be important that we have a broad exploratory curriculum at GCSE level , and that the recent decision to close off certain subject for year 9 student at Tiverton high school in my constituency reflect a trend towards a narrowing of academic opportunity , which be rather regrettable ? although I can not speak to the hon . member ' s local issue , I welcome the curriculum and assessment review , which will certainly look to change the one - size - fit - all model . I welcome several commitment in this year ' s main estimate , particularly the announcement that household receive universal credit will be eligible for free school meal from September 2026 . over 500 , 000 child will benefit , and 100 , 000 will be lift out of poverty . for a constituency like mine , that could be life - change , provide that the roll - out be well fund and properly deliver . I also welcome the £ 2 . 3 billion uplift in core school funding for 2025 - 26 , but this money must flow to where it be need most . it can not simply reinforce the status quo , and it must be target if it be to level the play field for disadvantaged child . of that money , £ 1 billion be earmark for high need and special educational need and disability provision , with local authority set to receive 7 % to 10 % more per head . funding increase be helpful , but they must be match with delivery reform and accountability . I want to highlight the £ 370 million investment in school - base nursery and early education . in constituency like mine , too many child be start school already too far behind . finally , I want to stress the importance of skill and further education . with a high proportion of local parent work in insecure or low - pay role , we must ensure that the £ 1 . 2 billion annual further education and skill investment help people to retrain , upskill and access well opportunity . these estimate contain important and necessary commitment , but the measure of their success will be how effectively they address inequality , and whether funding truly follow need . I urge the Government to ensure that every element of this year ' s education spending reach the child , the family and the community who be most in need . the future of our country be be shape every day in our classroom , yet we be fail too many child , too many family and too many school in place like West Dorset because the Government funding formula rely too heavily on deprivation as a metric , and fail to recognise the very real challenge that rural school face with transport , staffing , access to specialist service , and the additional pressure of isolation . I recently speak to the headteacher of Thomas Hardye school in Dorchester , who have previously work at a school in London . he tell I that school in London receive about £ 10 , 000 per pupil . in West Dorset , he have to manage with close to £ 5 , 000 per pupil , yet the challenge of deliver education in rural area be not few . in many case , they be far great . dorset studio school in my constituency serve student from all over Dorset , and 52 % of its pupil have special educational need and disability — more than three time the national average . some 11 % have education , health and care plan . these child struggle in mainstream setting , and they need specialist support , skilled teacher and facility that meet their need , yet Dorset studio school operate in an outdated building without the most basic facility . there be neither a hall nor a canteen , and there be no proper change area or specialist classroom . many pupil with ehcp can not access the one - to - one support that they require because of cramped , inadequate space , and child with physical disability can not easily move around building . in February 2023 , fund for the rebuild be finally secure , but delay — include a general election , revise costing and administrative hold - up — mean that the money have still not be release . contractor remain on hold , while the staff , parent and pupil remain in limbo . I urge the Government to release the funding , because every day that go by be another day when these child be not get the education they deserve . many family in West Dorset rely on the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which have be a lifeline for some of the most vulnerable child . these be child who have face trauma , loss and instability , and who need specialist therapeutic support to heal and thrive , but even this fund have face cut and uncertainty . in recent month , adoptive parent , special guardian and kinship carer have fear that the fund would be scrap , and it be only after sustained pressure that its continuation be confirm . however , the fair access limit for therapy have be cut from £ 5 , 000 to £ 3 , 000 , and funding for specialist assessment have be withdraw entirely . family who rely on consistent long - term care be now face with an impossible choice , as multi - year funding be not available . we must prevent further cut , and commit to support vulnerable child and their family properly . education spending be not just a budget . it be an investment in the next generation , in our country ' s future , and in every child ' s right to reach their full potential . as a former teacher , school governor and university lecturer , and as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on school , learning and assessment , on classic and on social mobility , may I say how proud I be to stand here as a Labour MP elect on a manifesto commitment to break down barrier to opportunity for all young people ? Bracknell Forest be an incredible place in which to grow up . we have only good and outstanding school and a fantastic local fe college — Bracknell and Wokingham college — and leafy Berkshire be of course a very lovely corner of the world . however , it would be wrong to suggest that young people in my constituency do not face real challenge . the Sutton Trust have identify that Bracknell have below average social mobility . we have a below average number of 18 - year - old go on to high education , and the figure be half the rate of Wokingham next door . we be one of the council in the safety valve programme , and we be face sustained issue in offer the vital SEND education that be so badly need . that be why I be so proud that this Government be work to address these educational inequality , include give hard - work teacher in my constituency above inflation pay rise for a second year in a row ; address school support staff fund through re - establish the school support staff negotiate body ; extend free school meal , with over 3 , 000 student set to be eligible in Bracknell Forest ; and the funding to support Uplands school to open a new school - base nursery . what a difference from the Tory party , which would prefer to fund a tax cut for private school , and the Reform leader , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who believe SEND student be be massively over - diagnose . the SEND crisis demand real action to address it , which be why I particularly welcome the £ 1 billion extra for SEND in last year ' s Budget , include £ 2 . 2 million more for Bracknell Forest council to expand provision . I have see the effect of expand provision , and I be very proud to open the new special resource provision at Sandhurst school just the other week . however , we need a full range of provision , with mainstream support as well as new special school , and the Minister will know that I have be lobby she hard to deliver the propose special school for autism in Buckler ' s Park in my patch . shamefully , the previous Government promise that school , but without a penny to pay for it . I would like to take this opportunity to once again lobby my hon . friend to deliver that much - need service . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on early education and childcare . early year provider be face an escalate financial crisis . the Government ' s late tax increase will add an average of £ 40 , 000 a year to staffing cost for early year provider . hopscotch nursery — a group operate across Sussex , include in Seaford in my constituency — estimate that increase to employment cost will add £ 140 , 000 to its wage bill , and this come at a time when 84 % of nursery nationwide report that they can not find suitable staff . staffing account for nearly three quarter of their running cost , and these financial pressure mean nursery face closure or fee hike that family can not afford . on recent visit to nursery in my local community , I have hear from practitioner work with young child every day that , although the Government ' s aim to expand funded childcare be laudable , there be simply not enough qualified staff available to deliver it . not enough applicant , a lack of qualification , low salary and a high turnover have lead to many nursery operate at well below capacity . one nursery in Newhaven in my constituency recently tell I that it take only half the number of child it could take . this be not because of a lack of demand — far from it — but because of a lack of qualified staff to care for child safely . an Early Years Alliance poll of 1 , 000 nursery in March find that two in five nursery be set to reduce the number of government - fund place for three and four - year - old to cover rise cost , include the increase to the minimum wage and employer ' s national insurance . this be the direct opposite of the Government ' s state desire to expand provision of funded hour in early year . as a parent of young child myself , I share the frustration at rise childcare fee , with childcare in the UK among the most expensive in the world . private and voluntary nursery provider , which deliver the majority of early year education , be particularly vulnerable . without urgent intervention , we risk a mass closure of facility that be integral not just to child development , but to our local economy and community . a survey this month by the Early Education and Childcare Coalition show that nearly 20 % of nursery be operate at a loss . I urge Ministers to reconsider exempt early year provider from their national insurance increase to prevent nursery from be push into closure . we can not afford to lose more essential childcare place . this be also a question of opportunity and fairness . investment in early childhood education have be repeatedly prove to significantly narrow achievement gap , benefit disadvantaged child . I support the Government ' s aim to expand funded childcare and the provision of free school meal , but without adequate funding for provider , there be a real danger the Government could end up put nursery out of business and increase the strain on school budget break even . I implore minister to find way to support our nursery , include an exemption from the Government ' s national insurance hike , to deliver education and support to our child in a way that be financially sustainable for both parent and provider . I very much welcome the Government ' s investment in education , as demonstrate through the estimate that have come out today . in particular , I want to touch briefly on the increase investment in SEND and high - need provision to the tune of £ 1 billion — something I be sure member be aware be very close to my heart . however , I would like to sound a note of caution and echo some of the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , and I thank she for her work on the Select Committee on this matter . investment alone will not solve the SEND crisis . it be the big issue face school . it be one of the big issue face council . dare I say it , it be one of the big issue face local healthcare authority — not to get ahead of the next estimate debate . money alone will not solve it . we need institutional root and branch reform of how the SEND system work . I have say it before and I will say it again : if we fix the SEND system , we fix the education system for every single child . what we need be investment in early year provision . every time I visit a primary school , I be confront by headteacher who say that the level of high - need SEND provision in key stage 1 have skyrocket in recent year . we can discuss the reason behind that . the covid pandemic prove the value of early year intervention in that , by and large , it do not take place for four to five year and we have see the impact that that have have on young people come through . so , we need early and quick intervention and investment in early year service . I take umbrage with member , unfortunately on both side of the House , who have speak about over - diagnosis of condition such as ADHD and autism . we need quick and accurate diagnosis and a treatment pathway to condition that be on the rise primarily because of historical under - diagnosis . find out who the child be who struggle with those condition and put in early intervention as quickly as possible , such as speech and language therapy , will save we money in the long run . if we be able to identify child who be in need of additional support in early year , that will save an awful lot of money overall . it will save money in education , health and local authority . I very much support the Government ' s direction of travel in try to get as many child in mainstream as possible . I firmly believe that early exposure to child who be different from yourself can only be well for society , by and large . however , I would like to press the Minister for a timescale on when the SEND White Paper will come out . I would welcome her assurance that parent , carer and young people themselves will be meaningfully involve in it . I would also welcome her thought on how we ensure all school share an equal load when it come to SEND provision . I want to talk about the real - life impact of the decision in the education estimate , and specifically , due to the short amount of time , on school funding . there be a village in my constituency call Buckland Monachorum for whom school funding be a particularly pertinent issue . it be in the middle of campaigning , because the local trust responsible for the school be have to restructure from September . that be entirely because of the cut school be face and the knock - on impact from the Budget that we have hear about . the restructuring be cause huge consternation among parent . there be complaint , a campaign — as I say — and a huge amount of stress , as they face a different future to the one they be expect . the Learning Academy Partnership trust , which be responsible for the school , have share figure with I that highlight the reality of the funding change that it be face . it also have one of the school that fall foul of the f40 inconsistency we have hear about . it be worth say briefly that secondary school in Devon can see as much as £ 1 million less in funding than equivalent school in a city such as Manchester . an hon . Gentleman say early that city school need more money . I hear that , but rural deprivation be a key reality , too , and we need to do more to address it . I be extremely grateful to be cheekily come in at this point , but the East Riding of Yorkshire be the lowest - fund authority in the country for SEN . I hope we might hear from the Minister about how the distribution , as well as the quantum , can be make fair . unfair distribution exacerbate the strain in the system . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . I agree that , and there be issue right across the country . the trust in my constituency be face financial pressure : teacher pay award , unfunded beyond 1 . 7 % , mean a 4 % increase , cost £ 359 , 330 ; support staff pay award , unfunded beyond 0 . 9 % , mean a 3 . 2 % increase , cost £ 295 , 000 ; and teacher pension increase , support staff pension and the national insurance increase have a total cost of £ 349 , 000 , with £ 76 , 000 unfunded due to pupil - base funding . that be a problem right across Devon . we be concerned because it mean ultimately that those local village school will have to take a direct hit , which be something that neither the parent nor the teacher , nor the trust that be responsible , want to see . a big part of this issue be about the reduction in the general annual grant — a real - term reduction of £ 200 , 000 in 2025 - 26 , plus 0 . 5 % redirect by Devon local authority to special educational need . this will have a massive impact on the most vulnerable child right across the community ; ultimately , it will not enable they to get the education they require . briefly , I want to ask the Minister about the future of school in place like Dartmoor in Devon , and especially the school that fall foul of the f40 formula issue . what can the Minister do to reassure the parent , teacher , other staff and child , most importantly , whom I represent , who will ultimately pay the price for these cut , intentional or not ? what reassurance can she offer in response to their plea and my plea for child and young people in South West Devon to have the funding they need for the future they deserve ? what reassurance can she provide to I that that will take place ? in Portsmouth North , we know that education do not just open door , but transform life . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to rebuild the foundation of the education system . before enter this House , I be a teacher , and I have see at first hand the power that education have to transform individual life and whole community , and how Government policy can impact it negatively or positively . in Portsmouth , sadly , that power have often be hold back by under - investment , postcode inequality and a lack of opportunity for those outside the traditional academic path . I be proud that more than 6 , 500 child in Portsmouth will benefit from Labour ' s expansion of free school meal and that teacher pay be rise — by 5 . 5 % last year and 4 % this year — recognise the dedication of staff across our school . combine with rise attendance and the return of 3 million more school day , that show that Labour ' s plan be work . it make I cross when those on the Opposition Benches talk about trade union baron pay rise , when it be actually our teacher , doctor and armed force who get those long - await pay rise , which be deny by the previous Government . it be time those on the Opposition Benches be honest about that . [ interruption . ] order . child with educational need in Portsmouth still face long wait and a shortage of school place ; family be wait , and school be stretch . can the Minister set out how the Department be work with local authority to expand high - quality provision in area such as Portsmouth , and whether the spending review include target capital or revenue support for this area ? if education be to drive growth , skill reform must be front and centre , and I be glad that be part of Labour ' s priority . college be central to this . student and staff at Portsmouth college be eager to do more , but need the right investment . ambition be vital , because the role of education be not just social , but economic . the spending review must be understand as part of the wide industrial strategy that Labour be deliver . skill reform , youth hub and the creation of Skills England be vital tool to align training with the future of our job , and the Department must ensure that school , college and business be integrate into this strategy . we also need to get serious about apprenticeship — not just for school leaver , but for old learner and those change career . we need to talk about access , because apprenticeship must work for everybody . I have hear from constituent in their 20 and 30 and beyond who want to reskill , but can not afford the drop in income . although it may seem radical , I wonder whether the Minister would consider a means - test apprenticeship loan system similar to student finance with an automate repayment tie into income above the living wage . that kind of support could transform access for work parent , carer and those who want to change their career . as a Government Member and a member of the Education Committee , I be proud of the Government ' s work . the spending review lay solid foundation , but there be a long way to go . Portsmouth North be a place of talent , determination and potential . labour ' s plan be already deliver change , but if we truly want an economy build on skill and a society build on fairness , we must keep push forward . as we know , not all local education authority be create equal . for those like South Gloucestershire , where school be among the low fund in the country , the average rise quote will not make up for year of underfunding . as I recently raise in this House , it be report that two third of South Gloucestershire school will be in the red next year , which be have a massive impact on child and young people in my constituency . I shall set out some of the pressure that be make that situation bad and ask the Minister how the spending review will help to tackle they . the first be the underfunding of staff cost . the Government be not fully fund the 4 % pay - rise for teacher and be expect school to find a quarter of the amount from efficiency within their budget . couple with the underfunded national insurance reimbursement , this be place a massive pressure on budget . can the Minister explain what these efficiency would look like . I can tell she what thing already look like in our school before these cut . in my local school , club , trip and activity have be axe . qualified teaching assistant have be replace by cheap apprentice . class size have be breach and staff share across year group , or even across several school . each school will be ask to cough up ten of thousand of pound that they simply do not have , and this will disproportionately hit small rural school where the staff budget make up a high proportion of the total . SEND pose challenge nationwide , but area such as South Gloucestershire where school funding be low and where school have struggle with a huge high - need deficit , be hit particularly hard . the spending review say in relation to SEND that the Government will " set out further detail on support local authority as we transition to a reform system as part of the upcoming local government funding reform consultation . " there be , however , no reference to the legacy safety valve agreement . the two - year extension of the statutory override be a temporary relief and do not solve the underlying problem . school and local authority need to be able to plan ahead , so what assurance can the Minister give authority such as South Gloucestershire whose safety valve agreement be come to an end , and when will those authority have certainty about the future funding arrangement ? council be be ask to deliver SEND service without sufficient funding , to which my hon . friend have allude , and that create a postcode lottery for family , with child wait month to receive support . do she agree that we urgently need SEND funding reform , include remove the £ 6 , 000 school contribution to end the postcode lottery , so that we can deliver the support that child need ? I agree with what my hon . Friend say . school be disincentivise from take action on special educational need if they know that they have to fund the first £ 6 , 000 . finally , I highlight the pressure of free school meal and breakfast club . although the extension of that provision be of course welcome , the funding do not recognise that school be already have to subsidise school meal due to rise cost , and those subsidy will now increase . school in my area tell I that they decline to join the breakfast club pilot due to the lack of funding . one school I speak to be expect 67p per child for non - pupil premium child and 88p for pupil premium child . that non - pupil premium price represent less than 15 % of the break - even cost for their current breakfast club . yet again , these school would have to subsidise at the expense of other activity . behind the headline number be school in crisis , especially in constituency such as mine where they have be routinely underfunde for year . I hope the Minister can provide reassurance for my constituent that the headline figure will translate into fair funding for South Gloucestershire . nothing be more important than ensure that every child in every part of our country have the opportunity to thrive . that be why break down the barrier to opportunity be such a key part of this Government ' s plan for change we be determined to undo the failure of the previous Government and to see that every school have the necessary resource to offer the education that all our child deserve . I welcome the estimate . in Hyndburn , the commitment to additional fund early year education will be transformational for family budget , save family up to £ 7 , 500 a year , and help mother such as I to balance career with family life . crucially , this will also enable we to achieve the key target of 75 % of child achieve a good level of development when they start school , which will equate to over 500 , 000 more child be school ready across the country . furthermore , the £ 6 . 7 billion capital investment into our school building will support the rebuilding of several school in Hyndburn , include Hyndburn academy in Rishton and Haslingden high school . it will also help we to tackle the removal of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in Knuzden St Oswald ' s primary school and to make other repair and improvement to a number of other school across the constituency . thank to this Government ' s commitment to increase access to free school meal , up to 6 , 590 child in Hyndburn will benefit . this Government understand that child who be well feed be well able to concentrate in the classroom and well able to learn . I know how much it will mean to family across my constituency to be able to save up to £ 500 a year because of this change . this be a labour policy , base on Labour value , and it demonstrate the share commitment of the Chancellor , the Minister and the Secretary of State to ensure that we deliver on our promise to the next generation . have work hard to tackle educational disadvantage for many year , I also know the importance of the regional improvement in standard and excellence team and the £ 150 , 000 be make available to they so that family and community will no long be let down year after year without the intervention need to tackle fail school where the standard just be not good enough . on the skill agenda , Accrington and Rossendale college have already receive £ 1 . 5 million of capital . the £ 1 . 2 billion commitment for the skill agenda be crucial , and I will be ensure that young people in Hyndburn benefit directly from it . there be so much more to talk about , whether it be mental health support , reform the apprenticeship levy and apprenticeship , review the curriculum and the current approach to assessment or make progress on hire an additional 6 , 500 teacher . there be still lot to do — order . I call Liz Jarvis . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak on behalf of my constituent , include the hundred of family who feel they be be let down by a system that simply be not work . over the past year , I have hear heartbreaking story from constituent whose child have be leave wait year for EHCP assessment and the specialist support they desperately need . Hampshire ' s SEN service receive over 3 , 800 EHCP request in the last academic year alone . my constituent chrissy ' s daughter have struggle severely with reading , writing and confidence . when Chrissy ask for a dyslexia assessment , her daughter ' s primary school be unable to provide one , and the family can not afford private testing . her daughter have miss day of school due to the sheer fear of go in , become physically sick as a result . Natasha , another constituent , tell I that she be at her wit ' end try to secure the right support for her son . he have an ehcp but be still without an autism diagnosis and a specialist placement after over two year of delay and miscommunication . what reassurance can the Minister give my constituent that their child will get the support they need to reach their full potential ? I have also be contact by constituent who have express concern about the cut to the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which have be a lifeline for some of the most vulnerable child in our society . will the Government consider reverse the cut to help give all child and young people the well possible future ? I welcome the Government ' s decision to expand eligibility for free school meal to all child in household receive universal credit . it be a long - overdue step in the right direction . to make the policy work in practice , the Government must introduce auto - enrolment and ensure that the expansion in eligibility be fully fund and properly implement . I have hear from the headteacher at Chandler ' s Ford infant school in my constituency that the funding provide to school have not keep pace with the actual cost of meal . the cost of deliver meal now exceed Government funding by £ 1 . 11 per meal , which have force the school to find another £ 31 , 468 out of its budget for the financial year . Eastleigh college receive £ 2 . 66 per student , but meal be cost the college close to £ 5 . have the Government consider the impact on other area of school budget , as school and college try to keep up with the increase cost of free school meal , and what provision be be make to cover the shortfall ? after year of neglect under the Conservatives , our education system be fail to deliver the outcome that child deserve , and teacher and parent be have to pick up the piece . we urgently need a system that work with family , not against they . parent with SEND child across Tewkesbury represent one of the demographic who most consistently contact I . I regularly hold surgery with desperate parent who feel that they have nowhere leave to turn . I have speak with parent whose child have miss year of education and whose ability to work have be dilute by the need to care for and teach their child outside the school environment . many other have spend year await diagnosis and year more acquire an EHCP , view an EHCP as a kind of silver bullet , only to get their child enrol in a school that simply do not have the additional resource to support they . will my hon . friend give way ? I be afraid I will not . this be a grow , nationwide crisis be experience by school and family , and it have secondary effect on the Department for Work and Pensions and the Treasury . responsibility for SEND provision currently fall to local authority , but council across the country be struggle to balance their resource between look after their people and maintain their infrastructure . I do not accept that those council be all at fault — that simply can not be . in fact , I empathise with those council that observe this month ' s spend review with their head in their hand . last month , I hold a Westminster Hall debate where I point out that Gloucestershire be among the lowest - fund council for education in England . I be delighted that the Minister for School Standards announce a review of the national funding formula for 2026 - 27 , and I very much hope that Gloucestershire will be firmly in the Government ' s mind when it take place . I ask the Government to acknowledge that they must address the grow demand for SEND provision and not leave it to local authority or kick it down the road until 2030 . I ask that the Government investigate and address the root cause of this grow problem and implement system and process in the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Education and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . until they do , local authority will continue to buckle under demand , our teacher will continue to break and our constituent across the country will continue to suffer . order . I be sorry to have have to be a little brutal , but we manage to get everybody in . we be , however , 10 minute over time , so if Front Benchers exercise a little discretion , that would be helpful . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the Chair of the Education Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , on secure this important debate on the Department ' s estimate . give the constraint you just mention , Mr Deputy Speaker , and how the Department ' s remit be huge , I want to touch on a couple of area : day - to - day school budget and funding to support some of our most vulnerable child . I also hope that the Minister might answer some question on the recent free school meal announcement . it be fair to say that since the Labour Government sweep to victory a year ago there have be a huge amount of rhetoric about the opportunity mission and put child at the heart of policymake , but the reality on the ground feel a little different . despite what the Government would have we believe , school budget across the country be at good frozen and at bad fall into deficit . year of conservative mismanagement and underfunding from 2015 onwards — [ interruption . ] conservative member chunter , but the figure be there . we all know that from 2015 onwards , their mismanagement — [ interruption . ] order . the Conservatives ' decision cast a long shadow over our school and college . although the government trumpet £ 4 . 7 billion for school in the spending review , they fail to mention that school budget will see an increase in real term of only 0 . 4 % over the spending review period . when I speak to school leader , as I do regularly , they still express the same level of despair as I hear during the last Parliament , when the Conservatives barely mention child or school . school leader be tear their hair out try to balance the book while shoulder the double blow of an underfunded rise in employer ' national insurance and underfunded teacher pay rise . one school in my constituency have share its budget figure with I in detail to show what be really happen . it have about a quarter of a million pound of salary pressure as a result of the NI and pay rise , yet only an additional £ 30 , 000 to fund that hole . the result be that the most vulnerable child will suffer , with learn support assistance and inclusion staff most likely to go to protect teaching staff , who be obviously essential . although prudence in previous year mean that reserve can be draw on and future capital project cancel to keep the light on this year , the school be look down the barrel of redundancy in 2026 - 27 . have see figure from other school ’ budget , I know that its situation be not unique . follow the spending review , the IFS say that school would need to make efficiency to the tune of £ 300 million to £ 400 million to afford the underfunded teacher pay rise and ni increase . when school be face ever - increase pressure — special educational need demand , student attendance challenge , behavioural issue and much more — it be ridiculous for the Government to ask they to find efficiency . I know that school staff be already strain every sinew to find every penny possible , down to ban thing like colour photocopying . it be frankly insulting , therefore , when the write ministerial statement come out just before the May recess , which lecture they on take responsibility " to ensure that their funding be spend as efficiently as possible " , — [ Official Report , 22 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 48WS . ] as if they do not already do that . those so - call efficiency be actually cut , whether to staff , extracurricular activity , school trip or mental health support . to quote one headteacher from my constituency : " every year you think you ' re go to go into bankruptcy " . I be not sure that be what the Government mean by their opportunity mission . after the Minister accuse I last month of imagine these problem , I hope she will confirm to the House how she expect school to cough up the extra money for the teacher pay deal and national insurance . if not , will she go into bat with the Treasury for more ? I want to touch briefly on an issue that a number of my hon . friend have speak about : the cut in grant to the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which be measure that will hurt our most vulnerable child . we know that the fund provide therapy for child who , in many case , have be through deep trauma and who , without significant therapeutic intervention , will struggle to have a fulfilling childhood and life ahead of they . after the fund expire , Ministers be drag to this place to confirm that it would continue , but they then snuck out announcement over the Easter recess of 40 % cut to the grant . I know that the Minister will come back and say that , at £ 50 million , the size of the pot remain the same , but that be simply not the point . if £ 3 , 000 — that be what the grant have be cut to — can not fund the therapy a child need , it might as well be zero . just speak to the professional and the unsung hero who have step up as adopter and kinship carer , who be deal with the consequence of the trauma every day . they feel deeply let down by this Government . we be not deal with massive figure here . indeed , when we look at the billion in the departmental estimate , we be talk about small package that will make a huge amount of difference , and not just to individual child but to the taxpayer in future , with money save far down the track . it be not only immoral ; it be short - sighted . halve the Department ' s spend on consultancy and advertising would allow Ministers to reinstate grant to previous level by boost the fund from £ 50 million to £ 75 million . as we debate these estimate , I once again call on the Minister to reverse those cut . also , now that the spending review be complete , I call on she to announce the ASGSF settlement for 2026 - 27 very soon , and by October at the late , so that family and service provider can plan . I want to touch briefly on the welcome recent announcement to expand free school meal — a policy for which the Liberal Democrats have be call and campaign for many year , and for which we have campaign alongside many other to ensure it be adopt . even though it be a welcome announcement , there be a number of question that need to be address . how many child be estimate to be lose out on free school meal as a result of the end of transitional protection ? there have be some suggestion from some quarter that child currently in receipt of free school meal will now lose access to pupil premium funding , as well as home - to - school transport . will the Minister clarify on the record to this House what the position be ? we be also still in the dark as to where exactly the money for the free school meal expansion be come from . in conclusion , while spinner in the Department for Education have make a good fist of ensure that the headline proclaim that the Department be a victor in the spending review battle , there be still a number of crucial issue hide beneath the top line . our school and our most vulnerable young people have be leave struggle . the devil be in the detail . I therefore hope that the Minister can persuade we otherwise and convince we that she really believe in extend opportunity to every child and young person in this country . before the election , Labour say that increase vat would pay for more teacher . even in December , the Chancellor say that " every single penny of that money will go into our state school " . more recently , however , the Prime Minister have claim that this will instead pay for investment in social housing . he say " my government make the tough but fair decision to apply vat to private school … because of that choice , we have announce the large investment in affordable housing in a generation . " these statement from the Chancellor and the Prime Minister can not both be true . they can not spend every penny on state school and also spend money on housing , so my first question to Ministers be this : who be not tell the truth ? be it the Prime Minister or the Chancellor ? logically , both statement can not be true . either way , we be not get the extra teacher . in fact , statistic just come out show that there be not more teacher , but few . there be 400 few overall , include 2 , 900 few in primary . teacher number go up 27 , 000 under the last government . now they be down 400 under this government . it be at that point , when those statistic come out show that thing be go in the wrong direction , that minister suddenly and for the first time start say that the loss of staff in primary school would no long count . primary school teacher no long count for this Government . they have never say this before until the statistic show that teacher number be fall . this pathetic attempt to move the goalpost be so corrosive of trust in politic . it be a bit like when the Chancellor say that she be make her unfunded pledge to reverse the disastrous cut to the winter fuel payment because thing be go so well with the economy . everyone know that be not true . it be so brazen . let I quote what the Office for Budget Responsibility have say : " since the October forecast , development in outturn datum and indicator of business , consumer and market sentiment have , on balance , be negative for the economic outlook " , and " borrowing be project to be £ 13 . 1 billion high in 2029 " . but this Government seem to think that they can say black be white and people will believe they . in that same brazen spirit , the Secretary of State respond to the statistic show that there be few teacher in our school by say in a chirpy tweet : " we ' re get more teacher into our classroom . " minister now say that primary school do not count because pupil number be fall , but pupil number in primary be now predict to be high than when they make that promise . on the same basis , we could equally exclude all the many area where number of pupil be fall in secondary and , indeed , place where number in primary be still go up , as in Leicestershire . it be brilliant : if we just ignore all the teacher that be get the sack , of course teacher number be go up . in the spirit of say thing that be not true and make brazen statement , I wonder whether the hon . Member can get on to the bit of his speech where he pretend that the Conservative Government invest more in our school . I be glad that the hon . Member have prompt I — he must have a copy of my speech . in the last Parliament , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , real - term spending per pupil go up by 11 % . I thank he for allow I to make that point . so why be so many teacher get the sack ? it be partly because that be not the only broken promise . Labour also promise that it would fully compensate school for the cost of the national insurance increase . the Minister sigh as I say this , and school around the country will sigh too , because Labour break that promise . accord to the Confederation of Schools Trusts and the Association of School and College Leaders , school have be leave up to 35 % short in some case . with all the broken promise that we have already mention , let I check in on another promise . perhaps the Minister will tell we the answer . the Prime Minister promise two week of work experience for all pupil and the labour manifesto promise £ 85 million to pay for it . in May the Government tell school to get on and deliver extra work experience . when exactly will school receive that £ 85 million ? school be not the only bit of the Department for Education where the Government have break promise . the Secretary of State ' s website still say , in a chirpy way : " Graduates , you will pay less under a Labour government . " but Labour have increase fee , not reduce they . the spending review be strangely silent on the subject of tuition fee . I assume that silence can only imply that tuition fee be set to rise in every year of this Parliament . let I say what that will mean . it will mean that , in 2027 , fee will go above £ 10 , 000 a year for the first time . it will mean that the total amount borrow per student take out the full amount will increase from £ 59 , 000 now to £ 66 , 000 outside London , and from £ 69 , 000 to £ 77 , 000 in London . so much for pay less ! ironically , the gain to university from that break promise and from that fee hike have be entirely wipe out by yet another broken promise : the decision to increase national insurance , another thing that Labour promise not to do . that broken promise have also hit nursery . the early Years Alliance have say that it be " disappointed " and " frustrated " by the spending review , and the Early Education and Childcare Coalition say that the spending review " reiterate many promise already make " and that " many nursery and other provider be … run at loss and at brink of closure " . meanwhile , the Institute for Fiscal Studies note that the funding in the spending review for early year " may not be enough to meet additional unexpected demand " . so what do this all look like when we come down from the billion to look at it from the frontline ? Sir Jon Coles be the leader of the large school trust in the country and also a distinguished former senior official in DFE . what do he make of these estimate and this sr ? he say that " education will — for the first time in a spending review — get less growth than the average across all spend department … the last time we have such a poor three - year cash settlement be the period 2014 - 2018 , when average cash increase be about 1 . 8 per cent . but then , inflation average 1 . 5 per cent … it slightly stick in the throat that HMT be try to present it as good news … the claim that this be a ' £ 2 billion increase in real term ' be a version of spin I can ' t remember see before . it rely on treat the financial year before last ( pre - election ) as the first year of the current spending review period . " in fact , he say that when all that be strip away , " to all intent and purpose , this be a flat real - term settlement for three year . if , as Schools Week be report , the £ 760 million ' SEND transformation fund ' be come out of the core school budget , then that represent a significant real term fund cut in school funding . " perhaps the Minister will tell we whether that be correct and it be come out of core school spending . that bring I on to the great suppress premise in these estimate , which be that DFE assume that it will save substantial amount on special need compare with the trend imply by previous year . the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) talk about the cut to special need spending . in fact , since 2016 , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , spending have increase by £ 4 billion in real term — a 60 % increase . if that have feel like a cut to the hon . member , he will not like what be be brew up by the Treasury now . the SEND plan will be out this autumn — coincidentally around the time of what look like an increasingly difficult budget . so far , DFE Ministers have float two idea for the SEND review . the first be to restrict ehcp only to special school . that would be a huge change . there be 271 , 000 child with ehcp in non - special state school and a further 37 , 800 in non - special independent school , so 60 % of the total be not in special school . Anna Bird , chair of the disabled Children ' s Partnership — a coalition of 120 charity — have say : " the idea of scrap Education , Health and Care plan will terrify family . " secondly , on top of that , we learn from a Minister of State in the Department of Health and Social Care that the Government also plan to push a lot more child from special school into the mainstream . there be two big question about this plan . to say the least , there be a clear tension between these two money - save idea . if the Government take away ehcp in mainstream school , parent will be a lot less confident when the council press they to put their child into a mainstream school rather than a special one . give that the Government have U - turn on the winter fuel payment and now say that the come welfare vote will , in fact , be a confidence vote in the Prime Minister , it will be interesting to see what eventually issue forth from the DFE . we know from these estimate and the SR that , as Sir Jon Cole say , unless the government deliver these large , plan saving in special need , the settlement for school will become increasingly difficult . this Government have break a staggering number of promise incredibly quickly . minister seem to believe that they can just say that black be white and that they never mean any of the thing they so clearly promise . this debate be about the money side of thing , of course , but in term of reform , thing be also go backwards with the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will lower standard and smash up 30 year of cross - party reform to appease the trade union . Tony Blair once talk about " education , education , education . " what we be now get be break promise , broken promise , broken promise . every child deserve the opportunity to achieve and thrive in education . that be why this Government have — as Labour government always do — prioritise education , with the Department ' s budget for day - to - day cash spending increase by almost £ 6 billion compare with the last financial year . within that , we have increase the overall core school budget by £ 3 . 7 billion in 2025 - 26 compare with last year . this real - term increase in funding per pupil help underpin our ambition of achieve high and rise standard for all child in all our school . this investment of £ 3 . 7 billion in 2025 - 26 include both the £ 2 . 3 billion announce at the October Budget , and the £ 1 . 4 billion in additional funding be provide to support school with staff pay award and with the increase to employer national insurance contribution from April 2025 . the majority of school funding be allocate through the school national funding formula . in 2025 - 26 , £ 5 . 1 billion of the school NFF have be allocate through deprivation factor , and £ 8 . 6 billion will be allocate for additional need overall — that is , over £ 1 in every £ 6 of total core funding through the formula be direct towards the school face the most challenging cohort . the spending review build on this investment in school . across the spending review period , core school funding — include SEND investment , which I know be a big issue for many member who have speak — will increase from £ 65 . 3 billion in 2025 - 26 to £ 69 . 5 billion by 2028 - 29 . I turn to the SEND system , which many member have speak passionately about . it be , and have be for too long , on its knee . this Government be determined to face up to the fact : too many family and child be simply not receive the quality of SEND service and provision that they should expect ; they be have to fight for those service ; and they be have to wait too long before those service be make available . it be this Government ' s ambition for all child and young people with SEND to receive the right support at the right time , so that they can succeed in their education and in move into adult life . to help we achieve that , we have invest £ 1 billion more in funding for high need in 2025 - 26 than in 2024 - 25 . we be also provide £ 740 million of high - need capital funding in 2025 - 26 , so that local authority can adapt school to be more accessible and can build new place , include in specialist facility within mainstream school . More than 1 . 7 million child and young people in England have special educational need , and the vast majority of those be educate in mainstream setting . we be committed to improve inclusivity , to bring a new focus on expertise in mainstream setting , and to an inclusive curriculum , so that the vast majority of child can be well support in mainstream setting , with specialist setting cater to those with the most complex need . I would like the Minister to clarify that the additional support and ambition that she be talk about be to improve the SEN side . for member who be not aware , the statutory bit be the SEND side , and there will obviously be improvement in that ; but if we improve the SEN side , which be the bit that child do not need an EHCP for , parent will not need to go through that adversarial legal battle , and there will be few reason for people to have to go through what can at time be a truly horrific system . my hon . friend make a really important point , and I be about to respond to a question that she raise in her very good contribution to this debate . we will set out the detail of our approach to SEND reform in a school White Paper , which we intend to publish in the autumn . we recognise that we need to support mainstream school in provide much great inclusion for child with SEND . we need to commence a phase transition process , which will include work with local authority to manage their SEND system , include deficit . there will also be an extension to the dedicated school grant statutory override until the end of 2027 - 28 — an issue that many member have raise on behalf of their local authority . we will provide more detail by the end of the year , include a plan for support local authority with both historical and accruing deficit . I turn to teacher training . I be very sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . member for Yeovil ( Adam Dance ) . he be incredibly brave , and it be important that he have share that . to respond to his question , high - quality teaching be central to ensure that all pupil be give the good possible opportunity to achieve . to support all teacher , the Department be implement a range of teacher training reform that will ensure that teacher have the skill to help all pupil to succeed . we be determined to make sure that every family be a stable , love home , and that no child grow up in poverty , lack food or warmth or be deny success due to their background . we be determined to turn thing around , tackle child poverty and spread growth and opportunity to every family in every corner of the country . the Labour Government have announce that we be extend free school meal to all child from household in receipt of universal credit from September 2026 . that will lift 100 , 000 child across England out of poverty and put £ 500 back in family ' pocket . we be support parent through that decisive action , which will improve life — and that be before the child poverty strategy come out later this year . provide over half a million child from disadvantaged background with a free , nutritious lunch time meal , every school day , will also lead to high attainment , improve behaviour and well outcome , which mean that child will get the good possible education and chance to succeed in work and life . we will provide more detail in due course , but decision such as expand free school meal do not happen by accident , nor be they simply the outcome of hard work by campaigner outside this place . they be decision about who we put first in our national life , and who have the first call on our country ' s resource . our government put child first . expand free school meal eligibility be a choice make by this Government , who be determined to secure a bright tomorrow for our child and ensure excellence everywhere , for all our young people . this government know that deliver the most equal society — something that we Government Members be determined to make real — be a choice , not something achieve by chance . on the point hon . member raise about child ' s social care , we be put child first . this Government be commit to deliver child ' s social care reform , to break the cycle of late intervention , and to help more child and family thrive and stay safely together . for 2025 - 26 , the Department have allocate £ 380 million to deliver child ' s social care reform , include £ 44 million of new investment to support child in kinship and foster care , as announce at the autumn Budget . because this Government be determined to ensure that all child have the good start in life , by 2028 we aim for 75 % of child to reach a good level of development by the end of reception , which mean that approximately 45 , 000 more child each year will start school ready to learn , thrive and succeed . that be ambitious . no progress have be make on this measure in many year . we be create 6 , 000 nursery place in school across the country through the first wave of 300 school - base nursery ; that be back by £ 37 million . the Minister talk about the Government make choice to prioritise child , and about keep family together . how will the cut to grant for therapy for some of the most vulnerable , traumatised child in our society help family stay together ? those child manifest the most challenging behaviour , which result in adoption placement breakdown , and that mean bad outcome for those family . how be that put child first ? the change that we have make to the fair access limit will ensure that more child have access to the fund , because year - on - year demand have increase . when we bring forward the legislation , which be the big overhaul in child ' s social care in a generation , the opposition party vote against it . we be determined to improve the life chance of child , to broaden access , and to ensure support for those that need it , despite our tough fiscal inheritance . to return to childcare , at the spending review , we announce almost £ 370 million of further funding to create ten of thousand of place in new and expand school - base nursery . despite the tough decision we make to get our public finance back on track , we be continue to invest in early year , and be support the delivery of entitlement . we will create a reception - year experience that set child up for success , and be work with sector leader to drive high - quality reception practice . we be increase access to evidence - base programme teach early literacy and numeracy skill . we be deliver the large ever uplift of 45 % in the early year pupil premium to well support disadvantaged child at the early point in their school life . unfortunately , have take a couple of intervention , I have go over my time . to summarise , we have inherit a challenging set of circumstance , but we be determined to change the life chance of child in this country . my final word be of appreciation for everyone work in our education system to support our child and young people . our share goal have to be provide the high - quality outcome for every child . the Government be invest in education , and we remain committed to renew the entire system to make our ambition a reality . we be put our promise into action , and we be determined to change the life of child across the country . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . the education and child ' s social care system across the country have be well represent , and we have hear contribution about the challenge in SEND , further education , school , rural area and early year . right hon . and hon . member have welcome the expansion of free school meal and the introduction of free breakfast club . I thank the Minister for her response , and join she in pay tribute to all the professional who work so hard every single day to improve the life of child and young people across the country . I urge she to work very closely with parent as she bring forward SEND reform , because at the heart of successful reform of the SEND system be the rebuilding of parent ' trust and confidence . the Education Committee will be robust in its continue scrutiny of the Government . I say gently to the Conservatives that the problem that they be attack the Government for not solve within a year be the legacy of their 14 year in power . we be talk about trust and confidence in the SEND system ; we would build trust and confidence in this place if there be slightly more honest reflection , humility and thoughtfulness on that point . I again thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this important debate , and I look forward to far scrutinise the work of the Government . question defer until tomorrow at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 54 ( 2 ) ) . Department of Health and Social Care [ relevant document : Second Report of the Health and Social Care Committee , Adult Social Care Reform : the cost of inaction , HC 368 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Department of Health and Social Care : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 102 , 988 , 518 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 7 , 761 , 339 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 116 , 089 , 479 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Keir Mather . ) the debate will be open by a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , Paulette Hamilton . I be delighted to open this debate on the Department of Health and Social Care ' s main estimate . my remark will focus on the recent spending review , which include some welcome funding increase and set out some ambitious reform objective . however , it also raise question about deliverability , particularly of objective to do with capital investment , efficiency saving and the role of social care . let I begin with capital investment . the Government have rightly emphasise the need to shift from analogue to digital system across the NHS . the increase of nearly 50 % in technology and transformation funding will mean that it reach up to £ 10 billion by 2028 - 29 , which be a welcome and substantial commitment . however , the NHS have a poor track record on digital transformation . the National Audit Office have highlight the risk around fragmented delivery , unclear governance and unrealistic timeline , and those lesson remain highly relevant . its 2020 report on digital transformation in the NHS find that despite £ 4 . 7 billion in national funding , many trust be still reliant on system that be outdate and not integrate . the capital budget be be ask to do a great deal more than achieve digital transformation . the Government have commit to the new hospital programme , and to address critical infrastructure risk , such as those pose by reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . over five year , £ 30 billion be allocate for maintenance and repair , and £ 5 billion be allocate for critical risk . however , by the end of the decade , there will be no real - term uplift in the capital allocation , compare with this year . in fact , in 2027 - 28 , the funding settlement actually fall to £ 13 . 5 billion from £ 14 billion the previous year , mean that inflation in construction cost and material will significantly erode its purchasing power . the British Medical Association have warn that current funding can not cover both the new hospital programme and essential maintenance , and now that programme must also compete for funding with the vital digital transformation . can the Minister explain how the Department will choose its priority from those compete essential demand on the capital budget ? turn to resource spending , the Department ' s day - to - day budget will grow by an average of 2 . 7 % per year in real term . that funding will be use to deliver several welcome commitment , include investment in elective recovery and urgent and emergency care ; a £ 4 billion increase in adult social care funding ; 700 , 000 additional urgent dental appointment annually ; 8 , 500 more mental health staff ; and £ 80 million a year for tobacco cessation programme . those be all positive step . I thank my hon . friend for give way , as well as for her excellent chairing of the Health Select Committee at the moment and for open today ' s debate . do she agree that this Government ' s record investment in our health service will be vital to turn around the health service after 14 year of under - investment and a lack of reform ? as my hon . friend have touch on , that investment also need to be target to enable the three shift that the 10 - year plan talk about . in particular , we need to reverse the trend of more spending go towards secondary care while less go to primary care . we need a big uplift in dentistry , which my hon . friend have mention , but also in primary care — in GPs — and in pharmacy . hear , hear . my hon . friend make some valuable point , and I agree with every one of they . underpin the settlement I have describe , however , be the Government ' s pledge to generate £ 17 billion in efficiency saving over three year , with a staggering £ 9 . 1 billion expect in the final year of this Parliament . critically , those saving have already be factor into the settlement — in effect , they have be spend before they have be deliver . in the light of that , we need absolute confidence that there be a clear and robust plan to generate those saving . the Government be assume an annual productivity improvement in the NHS of 2 % , more than triple the long - term average of 0 . 6 % . they appear to be rely on digital transformation to unlock the bulk of those saving , which be risky , give the history of digital change programme in the NHS . another source of saving be the plan to cut reliance on temporary staff by reduce sickness absence and overhaul staff policy , include limit on agency spending and eliminate the use of agency for entry - level role . again , this be a welcome ambition , but deliver it will be a significant challenge , one that will require meaningful , sustain improvement to staff wellbee and working condition . we can not build a sustainable workforce on good will alone . therefore , will the Minister say when we can expect an update and fully cost workforce plan to deliver on these ambition ? deliver the reform elective care for patient plan be also central to achieve those efficiency . it propose reform such as optimise surgical pathway through hub , streamline referral , expand remote monitoring and reduce unnecessary procedure . the plan assume a rapid transformation of service , with significant improvement in productivity and patient flow expect within just a few year . that be ambitious , especially give the context of ongoing workforce shortage , age infrastructure and rise demand . reform be essential , but it must be realistic , properly resource and pace to succeed . we can not afford to set target that look good on paper but falter in practice , damage morale and patient care . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the project £ 17 billion in saving will materialise and be deliver on time ? what happen to those additional resource for frontline delivery if those saving be delay or fall short ? I will also touch on adult social care , which be in desperate need of reform . the Casey commission have an important job to do , but the term of reference for the first phase of Casey ' s work state clearly : " the commission ' s recommendation must remain affordable , operate within the fiscal constraint of Spending Review settlement for the remainder of this Parliament . " now that those settlement have be reach , can the Minister provide clarity to the House about precisely what fiscal constraint Baroness Casey ' s recommendation will have to conform to ? the £ 4 billion for adult social care announce in the spending review include an increase to the NHS minimum contribution to the well care fund . I thank my fellow member of the Select Committee and stand - in Chair for give way , and I congratulate she on how she be introduce the issue today . do she agree that the length of time set for the Casey review to report do not give we a sense of confidence that the Government have inject sufficient urgency to address the serious problem of ensure that we have a robust social care system that can stand up to the pressure that lie ahead ? I thank the hon . member for that deep and thoughtful point . he be absolutely right . timescale be an issue , and that be why , as a Select Committee , we be ask the Government a number of question so that we can scrutinise what be happen and get the information . my Committee consider the well care fund in our inquiry into adult social care . it be introduce with the aim of drive well integration between health and social care , and shift resource upstream from NHS acute service . however , the evidence we hear be stark . these resource have be overwhelmingly focus on hospital discharge . while timely discharge be important , that do not match the fund ' s original objective . how will the Government ensure that this increase in funding lead to a great focus on prevention ? the Chancellor refer to the Government ' s plan for an adult social care fair pay agreement . reach such an agreement be not just desirable but essential . staff work in care home be far more likely to live in poverty and deprivation than the average british worker . the hon . member be make her point very well , and I congratulate she on her success in bring this debate to the Chamber . I agree with what she have say about fair pay for social care worker — I support that as well — but do she agree that a fair pay agreement will put undue pressure on provider unless there be some money or financial incentive attach to it so that they be able to meet their fair pay requirement ? the hon . Gentleman have make a valuable point . the problem be that we in the Committee be wait for the workforce plan , and we be not sure what be be plan . what the hon . Gentleman have suggest be desirable , but at this moment we do not know what the workforce plan will throw up . it be possible that what he have suggest be already in the plan ; let we just wait and see . the current position be both morally unacceptable and economically short - sighted , fuel the workforce crisis . what concrete progress have be make in establish the fair pay agreement ? can the Minister give the House an update ? will she also tell we whether the funding that be require to pay for this essential agreement will come out of the £ 4 billion that have be announce for social care ? while both the main estimate and the spending review present a vision of reform , it be clearly a vision build on some highly optimistic assumption . we need to see robust , detailed plan to deliver the digital transformation and the unprecedented scale of efficiency saving that the Minister be count on . without such plan , and without realistic assessment of the challenge , the risk be not just that these reform will fall short , but that they will do so at the expense of frontline service , patient care , and the morale of our dedicated health and social care workforce . I urge the Minister to address the specific question that I have raise today . rise — order . it will not have escape member ' notice that we be play " beat the clock " this afternoon . there be another debate to follow , with a very large number of speaker , and we be go to have to try and split the time between two debate . that mean two thing . first , after the next speaker I will impose a limit of three minute on every speaker . the Liberal Democrat Front Bencher have agree to cut her speech to six minute and the other two Front Benchers have agree to cut theirs to eight minute , with no intervention . secondly , it be up to member , but if they intervene , we will not get through this , or else some member will not be call — and it may be that member who have speak in early debate will not be call at all . I congratulate the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) on secure the debate . we have learn this week that rather than the Government ensure that funding reach the frontline , spend on staff at the Department of Health and Social Care and seven other arm ' s length body have increase by more than 10 % since Labour come to power , while GPs , social care provider and hospice be force to do more with less . the situation be far compound by rise financial pressure . despite repeat promise that additional funding would improve patient care , the chief financial officer of NHS England have confirm to the Select Committee that all the extra money allocate to the NHS will be swallow up by national insurance increase , inflation and pay settlement , which mean that none of it will go towards real improvement in frontline care . the rise in national insurance contribution be suppose to bolster the NHS and social care . in reality , it have land like an extra tax on provider themselves . gp surgery , care home , hospice and community service be all grapple with the additional payroll cost , just as they struggle with surge demand and chronic workforce shortage . the Institute of General Practice Management estimate that the average GP practice now pay an extra £ 20 , 000 a year in national insurance alone . across the nearly 6 , 500 practice , that add up to around £ 125 million a year — money that could otherwise pay for more than 2 million gp appointment , at a time when patient be struggle to be see . adult social care provider face an equally stark reality . the Nuffield Trust project that employer will shoulder nearly £ 940 million in extra national insurance cost in this financial year , on top of the £ 1 . 85 billion require to cover the rise in the national living wage . local council already face a £ 665 million shortfall in deliver their legal social care duty . the Government have promise a 3 % real - term rise in NHS revenue spending each year to 2028 - 29 , reach £ 232 billion by the end of that financial year , yet despite the headline increase , capital investment be be hold flat in real term . nhs leader have make it clear that it will not be enough to rebuild or modernise our hospital , or to fund the facility require to support more care in the community . the Health and Social Care Committee ' s recent inquiry , " Adult Social Care : the Cost of Inaction " , have draw attention to the enormous human and economic toll of the Government ' s failure to reform the care sector . from the burden of unpaid carer to the economic impact of people leave the workforce due to unmet care need , the system be under severe and unsustainable strain , but rather than tackle this issue , the Government have once again kick social care into the long grass and be wait for a report from Baroness Casey that will probably not emerge until the very end of the Session . the cross - party talk that this Government promise have be scrap again . although the spending review include £ 4 billion in additional adult social care funding and an increase in the NHS minimum contribution to the well care fund , there remain little clarity on how the Government will fund their commitment to deliver a fair pay agreement for care worker . it be also far from clear that the well care fund be currently structure to meet the real need of the care sector , rather than simply alleviate pressure in primary care . these estimate be not abstract figure ; they translate directly into long wait for elderly patient , overstretched family carer and staff drive to exhaustion . can the Minister confirm exactly how much fund the Government will allocate next year to tackle the social care workforce emergency , reduce waiting list for assessment and service , and ensure that council can meet their statutory obligation ? what concrete recruitment and retention measure will be put in place to attract and retain carer , nurse and support worker in this vital sector , and how much new capital investment will be commit to help provider to modernise facility and expand capacity to meet the need of our grow and age population ? when will the cross - party talk that the Government promise on social care happen ? they must happen ; otherwise , all the good effort — from member on both side of the House — on this issue will be lose . finally , with social care vacancy entrench and NHS productivity still trail pre - pandemic level , will the Minister set out what credible workforce and capital investment plan will be include in the forthcoming NHS 10 - year plan to address these challenge once and for all ? I pay tribute to all the health and social care worker — employ or voluntary — across this country . this Government , with their massive majority , have a real opportunity to make real change . they must start do so now , and quickly . I welcome the estimate and the CSR settlement from the Government — a record settlement for the Department of Health and Social Care and the NHS . give the time constraint , I will focus on three key point : financial management , underlie demand and the prioritisation of spend in the estimate . we rightly focus on the headline settlement in estimate such as these , but what we do not talk about enough be the importance of good public administration in the Department . in the 19 year that I spend in the NHS before come to this place , I see how the previous Government have a sticking - plaster approach not just to politic , but to public administration . Budgets be confirm at the last minute and planning guidance be outline at the very last moment of the financial year , mean that there be no opportunity for NHS leader and health leader to plan appropriately for resource spending . I particularly welcome the emphasis the Secretary of State for Health and the new chief executive of NHS England have put on restore accountability through the foundation trust model and multi - year settlement that mean that , although I be sure NHS colleague would like more , they at least know and can plan investment and spend - to - save decision over that period . secondly , member have query why the NHS seemingly continue to require increase . I draw the House ' s attention to the Nuffield Trust ' s work show that this be about not health inflation but underlie health demand . the Nuffield Trust estimate that , as a result of population change — mainly the ageing of the population — there be a 1 . 1 % increase in demand every year . in addition , advance in technology add a furth 1 . 8 % increase in healthcare demand , so there be already a 2 . 9 % increase in underlie demand before inflation , which highlight that the Government ' s emphasis on reform accompany investment be critical . finally , to deliver that reform , the investment go in must be very carefully target . the evidence base be clear that investment in primary care — and we be fortunate in this country to have a world - lead gatekeeper system of healthcare through general practice — represent the good return on investment in health . work do by Michael Wood and the NHS Confederation confirm that . alongside investment in mental health service and wide public health , this create the good chance for the health system to live within these estimate and to meet our constituent ' expectation . there be very legitimate concern about rumour plan to merge integrated care board across the country . when icb merge , the promise of unified oversight give way to a bureaucratic structure that prioritise large - scale efficiency over the nuanced understanding of local community . each locality and its environ have its unique challenge , such as variable demographic , socioeconomic disparity and distinctive health issue that demand target solution . a merged ICB risk offer one - size - fit - all strategy that overlook the fine detail of local care . the resultant dilution in responsiveness not only alienate patient , but stifle innovative local approach that have prove successful in address community - specific challenge . while attempt at drive efficiency be certainly laudable , we risk sacrifice the local approach for local need . in my constituency of Tiverton and Minehead , community hospital in Williton , Minehead , Tiverton and Dene Barton in Cotford St Luke be anchor institution provide essential care for my constituent . community in rural area simply can not afford to lose they . these facility be often the only nearby source of medical attention , and that be critical when timely treatment can mean the difference between life and death . moreover , community hospital offer the family and friend of patient the opportunity to visit and check on they without have to travel great distance to do so . as we know , this familiar contact be so often a crucial part of a patient ' s journey to recovery . it be certainly true in Tiverton and Minehead that community hospital help to reduce the health disparity find in rural setting compare with urban centre . without they , resident in more remote area would simply not have access to the same level of healthcare as those in more build - up area . that be why , where possible , we must resist administrative reform that ignore local distinctiveness , and at the same time invest robustly in the community pharmacy network and community hospital . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) for her excellent speech and for secure the debate . I be quite excited about Saturday week , not just because it will be my birthday on 5 July — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you so much — but because the national health service will be 77 . yes , it have survive that long . [ interruption . ] I have survive slightly less long , I would like the House to think . despite the year of cut and chaos which have leave the NHS break , it be not beat and we be rebuild it . there be a huge amount to do , but we be make progress . after record funding in our first Budget , I be delighted that the spending review have put the health of our nation first . and , as touch on by colleague , I be equally delighted that the Government be determined to reform how the NHS work to get a big bang for our buck and well outcome for patient , because we need that . we know we have masse to do . my hon . friend set out many of the splendid thing we have do so far , include get waiting list down to their low for two year , which be quite an achievement after only 11 month of this Government . on a more personal level , I be delighted that my constituency be benefit directly from have a Labour Government . Charing Cross hospital have be give million of pound extra to upgrade vital infrastructure , include new MRI scanner , modernise operating theatre , well energy security and a big refurbishment of the ground and first floor , all under this Government . I also hugely welcome the new investment in GPs in my patch : the cassidy medical centre , Ashville surgery , Palace surgery in Fulham and the Chelsea practice have all be earmark for new funding under the Government to improve facility and help provide well care . finally , I be excite by the possibility of the new neighbourhood health service , which we be look forward to in the 10 - year health plan . locally , I look forward to play my full part in bring together all the local health and social care practitioner , so that my resident get the well healthcare they have be wait so long for and deserve . while I do that , I will also be work to ensure that we confront health inequality and end the situation that we have now where people get less good access to health , less good treatment and less good outcome simply because of their colour , what they earn or their disability . we must end that . the spending review continue the work we have begin of repair a health system that have be leave bruised and batter , down but not out . combine with the 10 - year plan , we will be put the nation ' s health on a well path for the future and create the change that people so vigorously vote for . in the limited time available , I want to press the Government on a very live and urgent issue , which be the establishment of a dental school at the University of East Anglia . currently , there be no dental school in the entire east of England . the Government accept that Norfolk be the Sahara of dental desert . my constituent be excite by the prospect , as early as next September , of Norfolk train its own dentist . just last week , the General Dental Council give its approval for the new dental school and work be already under way at the UEA to create the facility for this training . thing ground to a halt , however , when the Government be unwilling to allocate the funding to ensure that place would be available in time for the UCAS deadline for 2026 entry , say that we all need to wait for the spending review . a frustrating delay , lose time to prepare and perhaps a lost year , but we reluctantly accept the need to wait to receive this good news . and then the spending review come . and go . and we hear nothing : total radio silence from the Government on the future of this much - need dental school . I table a write question to the Government directly after the review and they have refuse to answer it . the silence be cause worry to increase . there be a clear link between the lack of training opportunity in the east and the massive oral health inequality we be face . if we do not train in Norfolk , we can not retain in Norfolk . People love our area . when they study here , many stay . it would be just the same with dentist . and we need it to be , because in Norfolk and Waveney we have so few dentist that each new one would be require to serve 3 , 000 people , base on current ratio . it be not tough math to realise that , with the number of hour in a day and day in a year , people will go a long time without see a dentist , if they can get on an NHS list at all . these be not just number and stat , these be real people : the people in my community . I would welcome anyone who be move the money around spreadsheet in the Treasury or the Department of Health and Social Care to come to explain the dither and delay to their face — some of which can no long manage to muster a smile . the situation have become untenable , but we have the opportunity for real improvement . we have cross - party support across Norfolk ' s mps from all party , and I know that the Minister responsible , the Minister for Care , get it — he have hear the story , and I truly believe he care . I hope that he can now deliver on the concern and warm word that we have welcome and deliver we the dental school we need now . fourteen year of Conservative Government leave our national health service on its knee , with waiting list at record high , patient satisfaction at record low and million live in pain and fear , suffer without the treatment they need . turn that around be a mammoth challenge , but thank to this Government , the green shoot of recovery be there . in my local NHS trust , waiting list have fall now for four month in a row . we promise an extra 2 million appointment in our first year , and we have deliver 3 . 6 million . we have hire an extra 1 , 700 gps over the past year and provide much - need extra investment , include for the Village surgery in Timperley , in my constituency . however , there be still so much far to go , and the spending review and the settlement it give the Department be a recognition of that . in deliver a £ 29 billion increase in annual NHS day - to - day spending over the next four year , the Chancellor have acknowledge the mountain there still be to climb to ensure that our health service be there for we when we need it . accept the scale of the challenge and put forward the money need to meet it separate this government from the opposition party , which either want to abandon our national health service entirely or forget their record and wish away its problem . the difficult decision that this Government have take have give we the space for record investment , and I be pleased that the Government also acknowledge that that must come with much - need reform . we have see it with the scrapping of NHS England and the efficiency saving that will generate , and we have see it with the £ 10 billion investment in NHS technology over the next four year . as part of that effort , may I suggest that , follow my conversation with the Secretary of State on this topic , the future of Altrincham Hospital in my constituency be consider very carefully ? we lose our minor injury unit because of the Conservatives ' failure on NHS staffing , and the temporary skin cancer diagnostic hub that occupy its space must be turn into a permanent diagnostic centre . to conclude , we finally have a spending review settlement that recognise the scale of the challenge face our national health service , and we finally have a Government who be serious about fix the problem it face . resident across Altrincham and Sale West be already feel the benefit of that , with more to come . we have save the national health service before and , thank to this Government , we be go to do it all over again . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) . of course , in this debate we have to reflect on the fact that the Government inherit the NHS in the very bad state in its 77 - year history , which the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) remind we of . the Government must pick up the NHS and try to restore it to the state that we would all like to see . I approve of the three shift the Government be propose — no one could argue against prevention rather than ill health . obviously we want to see advance in prevention , technology and delivery of service into the community , with well integration and improvement in the workforce plan . with that , however , I would like to see the Government advance the case for safe staffing . when I be last in this place , I be part of a campaign on that , which seek to achieve , for example , a ratio of never more than seven on acute ward — seven acutely ill patient to every register nurse on acute ward . we should be aim to try to support staff on the frontline , rather than leave they under the pressure they currently face where they be seriously understaffed . there be incredible pressure within the service itself . I know that , at the weekend , the A & E department of the Royal Cornwall hospital have more than 100 patient wait to be treat , with ambulance often wait outside . our ambulance service be currently propose to cut co - responder from some of our rural area — where fire service staff support the ambulance service — which be a matter of great concern . the Royal Cornwall Hospitals Trust be also face a £ 50 million cost improvement programme this year , and many other trust on the frontline be also face similar pressure . the Government must look at the capacity of the nursing home sector , as there be often many unused bed . we talk about the difficulty of discharge patient from a hospital , but there be also the risk of the independent sector cherry - pick the profitable bit of the NHS . we need , above all , to back up our NHS . as the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , the temporary Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , point out , social care be vital . if one in four social care worker be leave the sector every year , we know that we have a serious crisis . the Casey review can not come soon enough . first , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a trustee of the charity Helpforce , a member of the Public Accounts Committee and an officer of the patient safety all - party parliamentary group . it be a Labour Government who found the NHS on the principle that it would be there for we when we need it . patient in my constituency lose that confidence under the Tory Government . when they ring for a gp in the morning , they be tell that it would be three week before they could be see . if they ring 999 , they be not confident that the ambulance would arrive . when they be refer for test , they would be wait month rather than week . these estimate show that this Labour Government believe in the NHS , believe in its future and can turn it around , so that again it be there when we need it . the spending review give an uplift in day - to - day spending as well as a huge rise in capital budget . it be those capital budget that will enable the rebuilding of Airedale Hospital , which have be plague by RAAC , and be vital to my constituent . I have see at first hand the difference that good - quality primary care facility can make with the completion of the extension at Grange Park surgery . I know that , with this settlement , the Government will want to see further investment in primary care , and I hope the Minister will confirm that . it be imperative that this extra spending help deliver the shift from treatment to prevention , hospital to community and analogue to digital . as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , I help to challenge official at the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS England as to why , despite commitment over many year to community and prevention service , the money have never follow under the Tories . I hope that , with Labour ' s NHS 10 - year plan , we will make it clear that the money will be there for community service and for prevention . I be very pleased that the Chancellor have put a stop to the raiding of capital budget to fund everyday expenditure . these estimate rely on very ambitious productivity saving . at the heart of that be the health of our workforce , because too many be sick and absent from work . volunteer can make a huge difference to retention because they improve staff wellbee . volunteering can also be a route for people to try out a career in healthcare . I urge the Minister to back the initiative that support the use of volunteer . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not give way , because we be under a time limit . in conclusion , I be confident that this funding settlement will help to put the NHS back on track and make it fit for the future . I rise to set the record straight in Scotland when it come to the much - vaunted but false largesse of this spin - doctor Labour Government . after the autumn statement , the Government spend much time and energy tell the scottish people how generous they be — the large settlement in the history of devolution , they say . however , what they do not tell the people of Scotland be that when their inflationary policy be take into account , drive by their eye - water borrowing — when we consider pay and price rise and the punitive employer national insurance increase — the settlement that look big in cash term be not so big in real term . if Scottish Labour Members would spend as much time deal with the thing they be elect to deal with as they spend attack the Holyrood Government , they might locate the spine that some labour Back Benchers seem to have find recently in regard to the welfare Bill . turn to the estimate , under the Barnett formula , Scotland ' s taxpayer depend on the generosity of the Westminster Treasury , even though it be our money — and do not give I the usual nonsense about high per capita spend . if the Treasury do its sum correctly to include all our produce , if our need be properly calculate and our geographic size and rurality compare to our population and demography account for , the number would be very different . the result of the spending review and these estimate be not good . the UK Government ' s spin on the spending review be so misleading that the independent and well - respect Fraser of Allander Institute say , " we have see Labour mp and msp describe the spending review event as increase the block grant by £ 9 . 1 billion over the spending review period , but this be a figure that be neither transparent nor helpful " — not my word but those of the institute . its conclusion , base on the Scottish Fiscal Commission ' s forecast , be that rather than represent a £ 9 . 1 billion uplift , Labour ' s spending review actually bring in a £ 700 million cut to Scotland ' s funding against May ' s central estimate . our health service depend not only on our excellent NHS worker but on our infrastructure . that be why it be so disappointing that in the spending review the UK Government impose a real - term cut on Scotland ' s capital spending in the latter half of the spending review period . in effect , Scotland have be short - change by more than a billion pound . despite labour ' s continue austerity in Scotland , the Scottish Government be invest heavily in our health service . over the past year there have be a significant fall in long wait and an increase amount of GP appointment and surgical procedure — for example , there have be a 50 % increase in hip and knee replacement . the SNP will continue to fight for our NHS and against successive Westminster Governments who do not have Scotland ' s interest at heart . we know that a key part of primary care be community pharmacy . indeed , that be recognise in the Darzi report , which state : " one of the great strength of the health service in England have be the accessibility of community pharmacy . " the previous Government commit to community pharmacy through the introduction of Pharmacy First . the Darzi report also highlight that 1 , 200 pharmacy have shut their door since 2017 , and increase medicine cost and rise national insurance cost will not be help . do my hon . friend recognise that it be not just community pharmacy that be be hammer in this sector but hospice too , such as St Luke ' s hospice in Basildon , which be face a £ 450 , 000 rise in its national insurance cost ? do she also agree that minister be put these cost on to pharmacy and charity that can not make they back , which be absolutely kill community infrastructure in the health service sector ? I entirely agree with my right hon . friend . indeed , St Luke ' s hospice in my constituency will be face exactly the same issue . at risk of closure be Tubb pharmacy in Newton Ferrers in my constituency , which I have raise in this place before . Pharmacist Esi have be help massively by an incredibly active community . the pharmacy support a petition I deliver here in Parliament , and it provide essential service to the two rural village of Newton Ferrers and Noss Mayo , but it be seek Government action in order to secure its future . while the estimate may highlight a commitment to deliver care close to home , accord to Community Pharmacy England there be still no clear path to the sustainable funding and operational model that be require by community pharmacy . it be need by community pharmacy such as Tubb in Newton Ferrers , and it be need by community pharmacist such as Esi . it be need by the whole country to be able to deliver community pharmacy , Pharmacy First and , ultimately , to relieve pressure on primary care . I urge the Minister to provide this substantial funding for community pharmacy . I know that the Minister agree that this work be incredibly important , and I urge she to ensure that we bring it to the fore as quickly as possible so that there can be a future for community pharmacy across the country . order . due to time constraint , I must now call the Front Benchers , start with Helen Morgan . I congratulate the acting Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , on secure this important debate and on her excellent opening speech on the risk inherent in the spending review settlement . the Conservatives leave our NHS in a disgraceful state that be impact every one of our constituent . on their watch , people with life - threaten emergency be leave wait hour for ambulance , hospital be leave to crumble , and access a GP become a huge challenge . the collapse of NHS dentistry have leave some people pull out their own tooth at home . it be essential that the new Labour Government be bold and ambitious in turn the NHS and care sector around . the Liberal Democrats support the principle of the Secretary of State ' s three shift and have state on many occasion the alternative mean we would use to raise the necessary fund , but today ' s debate be about how the money should be spend . I be pleased that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury ' s statement last week incorporate a measure that the liberal Democrats have long call for , not least in our last Opposition day debate in April : a ringfenced fund for maintenance , to deal with the huge repair backlog that have build up across the NHS estate . however , I must reiterate the need to go fast with the new hospital programme . we know that the Conservatives ' plan be unfunded , but this capital spend must be bring forward so that crumble hospital in place like Torbay , Watford , St Helier and Stepping Hill can be rebuild as soon as possible , because spend billion on maintain building that face demolition in the next 20 year be not a wise use of taxpayer ' money . the Liberal Democrats believe that the crisis in the NHS — particularly in accident and emergency — can not be solve unless we transform social care . we have long argue that investment in the NHS will be pour good money after bad if hospital can not discharge patient because there be no care worker to help they recover . the fair pay agreement for care worker be a start , but it will not touch the side of the yawning abyss of current and forecast vacancy in the care sector . at a bare minimum , we need a high minimum wage for care staff to stop the sector haemorrhage worker . it be more urgent than ever that the cross - party talk for which the Government have such enthusiasm at the start of the year be reinstate . the term of the Casey review , which leave fundamental restructuring of the care sector to 2036 , be not ambitious enough . the review need to be complete this year , so that meaningful change be not put off while our population age . I turn to mental health . the Darzi review outline in stark term the fact that mental and physical health be not give parity in the health service ; mental ill health take up 20 % of the caseload and only 10 % of the fund . proper investment in mental health be essential to the shift from treatment to prevention . it be disappointing to see the Government abandon mental health waiting list target and reduce the overall proportion of money spend on mental health , while proclaim that they be meet the mental health investment standard because , at integrate care board level , there have be a fractional increase . I urge the Minister to ensure that mental health be give priority , and to ensure that prevention , through early intervention , can bring about improved outcome . yesterday , the Secretary of State announce a new national investigation of maternity service . I be disappoint that no oral statement be make . many mp represent constituent whose family have be leave distraught by maternity service failing at Shrewsbury and Telford , East Kent , Morecambe Bay , Nottingham , and potentially other trust area . those voice deserve to be hear in Parliament , but that opportunity be deny . I welcome the inquiry , but remain dismayed at the slow progress since Donna Ockenden ' s shocking report into the Shrewsbury and Telford hospital trust in spring 2022 . she recommend 15 immediate and essential action for national implementation ; three year later , that have not happen , and the Government have remove the ringfence from funding intend to ensure safe staffing level . her finding be consistent with those after other maternity scandal , and the Government accept her recommendation . it be vital that the inquiry move the situation forward and be not use as a distraction tactic to delay real action . before conclude , I will raise the subject of the fundamental reorganisation of the NHS , which be be undertake without any meaningful parliamentary scrutiny . NHS England announce the decision to slash ICB run cost by 50 % by the end of this year , with detailed plan to be submit by the end of last month . no impact assessment for that drastic change be undertake by the Department and , as far as I can see , there be no funding from the Treasury for potential redundancy cost and no confirm redundancy scheme . icb will be expect to transfer some statutory duty to other trust without that change be on any formal statutory footing . the guidance from the soon - to - be - abolish NHS England have be hastily prepare . if ICB money can be spend more efficiently , the Secretary of State have our support , but surely such radical change require scrutiny , particularly when it be not in the labour manifesto and there have be no White Paper , no consultation , no legislation , and not even a short ministerial statement on the subject . we would all appreciate the opportunity to well understand how the process will improve outcome for our constituent . the new Labour Government face an enormous challenge in turn around an NHS leave at break point by the Conservatives . the Liberal Democrats ’ job as an effective Opposition party be to urge the new Government to go far , fast , in tackle the issue of access to GPs and dentist , in end the appalling scandal of corridor care and dangerous ambulance waiting time , and in bring urgency to the issue of spiral mental health waiting list and the crisis in social care . I congratulate the acting chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , on secure this important debate . it be almost one year since the Labour Government take office . they come to power promise that they have a plan to improve our NHS . however , what they actually have be a plan to get a plan by launch a consultation ask professional and the public for idea . the consultation be launch in October last year , and I understand that more than 220 , 000 people have contribute , but despite it be promise for spring , there be still no sign of it . will the Minister commit to publish a plan before the summer recess ? while the Secretary of State consider what the plan should say , over in no . 11 we have see the Chancellor follow the usual labour playbook : high spending , high borrowing and high taxis . there will be more funding for the NHS , yet as the chief executive of NHS England note , the NHS budget be now equivalent to the entire gdp of Portugal , reach £ 226 billion in 2028 - 29 . that be around 50 % of public spending . it be say that 18th - century Prussia be an army with a state attach to it ; 21st - century Britain be at risk of become a health service with a country attach to it . this be not the Government ' s money ; it be taxpayer ' hard - earn cash , yet the Government have provide no clarity — no meaningful detail and no credible plan — on how such vast sum will be use . in the autumn Budget , an additional £ 10 . 6 billion in extra funding be promise for 2025 - 26 . however , Julian Kelly , NHS England ' s former chief financial officer , tell the Health and Social Care Committee that most of it will be consume by pay settlement , the national insurance hike and non - pay inflation . today , 64 % of NHS spending go towards personnel wage and pension , which be a far high proportion than in other comparable system , but the NHS still face staff shortage and expensive agency cost . will the Minister confirm how much of the overall funding will go to salary increase ? how much will be divert into cover the national insurance increase for hospital , social care , pharmacy , gps , NHS contractor and social care provider ? as we speak in this Chamber , resident doctor and nurse be ballot for industrial action . strike would only add to the disruption and delay in care for sick and vulnerable people . do the Government have a plan to minimise the impact of strike , should they occur ? let we look at one proposal that the Government have announce : the scrapping of NHS England . this government by press release announce NHSE abolition without adequate planning . minister have dodge basic question about cost , staffing change and structural reform . there be , once again , no plan . the detail that we know about do not inspire confidence . NHS England have ask the icb to reduce their cost by up to 50 % by October 2025 . icb will have to cluster , with the number expect to fall from 42 to 27 in two year . many have warn that service will be cut , and redundancy payment link to those restructuring could reach £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 . have the Minister cost that in the Department of Health and Social Care revenue settlement ? the Government promise to restore the 18 - week hospital waiting time within this Parliament . however , their departmental modelling show that only 80 % of patient may meet that standard for routine operation . will the Minister confirm that the Government will deliver that promise ? move on to capital spending , the Minister say that she want to continue the new hospital programme , albeit more slowly than we would have do , and invest in technology , but capital budget remain flat in real term . the chief executive of the NHS Confederation say that this leave " a major shortfall in capital funding " . the Nuffield Trust say that " it will be difficult for the NHS to invest in the technology and facility upgrade it need to meet the government ' s … target . " will the Minister explain how they will prioritise , and what will be deliver ? the Government have say that they want to shift funding from hospital to primary and community care . will the Minister confirm or deny report that the NHS 10 - year plan will delay the plan increase in spending on primary community care until 2035 , instead of 2029 , as be originally promise ? a key part of community care be social care , but as Daniel Elkeles , the chief executive of NHS Providers , note , " social care … hasn ' t be give the focus it need " , and that be " a significant blocker on progress for the NHS . " Cross - party talk on reform have quietly be abandon in favour of an independent commission lead by Baroness Casey , but that process be not due to complete until 2028 . yet again , we see headline - grab announcement from the Government , with no delivery plan and no real reform , leave patient , staff and family wait for the care they desperately need . the Government aim to deliver £ 13 . 8 billion in efficiency saving by ' 28 - 29 , with more than £ 9 billion of that total expect to come from dhsc alone . will the Minister clarify where , within the Department , those saving will be find , and what impact assessment have support those decision ? the Government say that prevention be well than cure , and I agree . a good example be the " Act fast : face , arm , speech , time " campaign , which we will all be familiar with , but just last week , in an answer to a write parliamentary question , the Minister admit that " the Government have make reduction in the Department and NHS England ' s communication and campaign . " can the Minister tell we which public health campaign be to be affect ? finally , the dental contract require reform . the Government start negotiation a year ago , yet the Public Accounts Committee have note : " nhse and dhsc do not yet know what reform might look like or to what timescale it can be deliver " . will the Minister tell we when the Government expect to conclude negotiation and get on with dental reform ? in summary , the Government need to stop govern by headline . they need to publish a robust evidence - base plan , and start deliver . I thank the interim Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , for secure this debate , and all colleague for take part . I have be ask to condense my comment , so I hope that I can address her question , but if I do not cover they , we will of course make sure that she have a write response . we be honest about the challenge face the health service , and we be serious about solve they . that be why we publish the independent review lead by Lord Darzi , which provide a full and frank assessment of the state in which the nation ' s health service be leave by the Conservatives after 14 year of government , aid in the first five year by Liberal Democrat colleague . that investigation highlight the critical challenge face the NHS , and we have hear about more of they today . they include a significant increase in people live with multiple long - term condition , and grow demand for mental health service , particularly among child and young people . that be why we be take the step that we be take . the investment we be already make in 2025 - 26 , the outcome of the recent spending review and the forthcoming 10 - year health plan will address these root cause by deliver our plan for change commitment , invest in preventive health care and modernise NHS infrastructure , so that we radically reform the NHS . we will deliver three shift to ensure that the health service can tackle the problem of today — cause by the Conservatives — and of tomorrow . they be : shift care from hospital to community ; shift from analogue to digital ; and shift from sickness to prevention . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington say that there be highly optimistic assumption in the planning process , and that robust , detailed plan and efficiency saving be need if we be to deliver on those assumption . I agree . I be optimistic about our ability to deliver , but I be also realistic and very focused on delivery . like my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) , I be already see improvement , as be most member in their constituency . may I wish he a happy birthday for July , while we be here ? my hon . friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) rightly say that the Labour Government do this before , and we will do it again . the estimate set the Department of Health and Social Care a resource spending budget of £ 208 . 1 billion and a capital DEL — departmental expenditure limit — budget of £ 13 . 6 billion , an increase from the 2024 - 25 supplementary estimate budget of £ 9 . 6 billion and £ 2 billion respectively . on capital , we have , as my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) say , reverse the shocking decision by previous government to keep raid capital budget in order to keep the revenue go . that be why NHS building across our constituency be in the state that they be in , and why we do not have the infrastructure that we need . I be pleased to visit Airedale hospital recently to see the work be do to repair it . on digital and tech , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington will notice that we have a £ 10 billion dedicated spend for the issue that she quite rightly raise . the Department cover a wide family of organisation , and I can assure the House that we be focus on all part of the departmental family to make sure that taxpayer ' money be spend as efficiently and effectively as possible . everybody here have raise particular issue to do with the NHS , so I will briefly remind member of the outcome of the spending review that my right hon . friend the Chancellor recently announce . the spending review include £ 29 billion more day - to - day funding in real term than in 2023 - 24 and the large - ever capital health budget ; there will be a £ 2 . 3 billion real - term increase in capital spending over the spending review period . that be our commitment to the british public . my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) , with his great experience of the health service , say that we need to make sure that we have good public administration . the multi - year settlement can help the system to plan much well . this record investment put the NHS on a sustainable footing to deliver for the british people . we will cut waiting list so that , by the end of the Parliament , 92 % of patient will start consultant - lead treatment for non - urgent health condition within 18 week , deliver on the Prime Minister ' s plan for change commitment to prioritise people ' s health . we will support the shift from analogue to digital with the investment of £ 10 billion in NHS technology and transformation between 2026 - 27 and 2028 - 29 — an increase of almost 50 % from 2025 - 26 . we will repair the NHS estate , continue to deliver the 25 hospital , with £ 30 billion over the next five year for day - to - day maintenance and critical safety risk , include the eradication of RAAC . none of that happen under the Conservatives . we will enable 2 % productivity growth per year , unlock £ 17 billion of saving to be reinveste in frontline service . as well as delivery , the british people rightly expect we to ensure value from this huge investment in the health service . the Secretary of State have mark 2025 - 26 as a financial reset year with the publication of this year ' s planning guidance . he have be clear that all system must live within their mean , exhaust all opportunity to improve productivity , tackle waste and take decision on how to prioritise resource to well meet the health need of their local population . all system be now plan to achieve a balanced financial position in 2025 - 26 , recognise that £ 2 . 2 billion of deficit support have already be provide . we will therefore close the £ 4 . 4 billion initial gap in full . financial plan support the delivery of key operational performance target for elective , cancer , and urgent and emergency care at a national level set out in the guidance . we be work closely with NHS England on key aspect of deliver that . I assure the Chair of the Select Committee that I meet colleague from across the Department of Health and Social Care and NHS England weekly to go through those plan in a robust manner . there be a lot to get through , so I be sorry that we have lose a lot of time to respond to colleague . we be particularly look at productivity and efficiency target . we be ensure that the financial performance and improvement programme for 2025 - 26 learn the lesson of the past . we will focus on cost variation and on upskille finance team and wide leadership to ensure that there be good governance in our reporting practice . we will issue the NHS performance assessment framework and have a targeted approach to recovery because the current model do not work . we be look at ICB reform , as have be discuss . we want to ensure there be a reduction in the variation of cost across the system so that we can get more care and support to the frontline . we be focus much more on medium - term planning to have a long - term financially sustainable system for system and provider . thank to this Government ' s record investment , we be take step towards fix the foundation of our NHS to make it fit for the future . we will set out more detail on our plan shortly in the forthcoming 10 - year plan , which will lead the NHS to meet the challenge set out in the plan for change and build an NHS fit for the future . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have speak . the Health and Social Care Committee will continue to scrutinise the health and social care sector . the Committee remain united in the view that we need a programme in place to reform social care . the spending review and the funding tell we the scale of the challenge . on 5 July , the NHS will be 77 year old . I want to pay tribute to and thank all the healthcare staff and worker in the NHS and say a big happy birthday to the NHS . question defer until tomorrow at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 , for expenditure by the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 22 , 916 , 388 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 871 of session 2024 – 25 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 5 , 004 , 997 , 000 , be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 19 , 023 , 317 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Jim McMahon . ) the debate will be open by the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for find time for this important and urgent debate . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be responsible for some of the big area that impact all of we every single day , and I welcome the ambitious drive of the Deputy Prime Minister and her Ministers to deliver in those area . for too long , we have simply fail to build the home that people need : the affordable home for young people stick at home or in the unaffordable private rented sector ; the family home for people whose kid have outgrow sleep in the same room ; and the social rent home to get people off the social housing waiting list and give the 164 , 000 homeless child a safe and permanent roof over their head . I welcome that the Department be address head - on the financial distress that many local authority be in . last year , a record 30 local authority receive so - call exceptional financial support , which allow they to sell long - term asset or take out loan just to pay for their day - to - day cost . due to the pressure they be under , some council now have no choice but to hollow out their service in order to deliver vital service for resident . how can that be sustainable in 2025 ? how can it be fair that local people ultimately pay the price when their council can not fix up their town centre and have to cut vital service like bin collection just to make end meet ? if the Department be go to get to grip with these dual crisis and deliver on its ambition , its plan to address they must be fully fund . when we look at the estimate and the recent spending review , there be good news for affordable housing and social housing , although I do have some question for the Minister , which I will come to . on local authority finance , however , the Select Committee remain concerned that no new money be on the way . the spending review promise " an average overall real term increase in local authority core spending power " , but only if local authority increase council tax by the maximum allowable under legislation , pass the buck on to council and raise the taxis we all pay in our local area . if the Department be serious about ensure everyone have access to an affordable home , we must end the decade of failure to build the home we desperately need . that be why I welcome the Government ' s ambition and commitment to deliver 1 . 5 million new home during this Parliament , but evidence to our Select Committee from the sector have be clear : if the Government want to increase house building towards deliver more than 300 , 000 home a year and reach their target , social housing must be a substantial part of that mix . minister have say that the 1 . 5 million target be " stretch " , and the message we have hear from the sector be clear . in November , the Minister for Housing and Planning tell we that , rather than a target of 300 , 000 home per year over five year , " the trajectory be an upward one " . he say : " the precise curve of that trajectory be dependent on factor like … the spending review settlement " . we therefore warmly welcome the announcement in the spending review that the next affordable home programme for 2026 onwards will be worth £ 39 billion . the estimate provide almost £ 400 million of uplift for the current affordable home programme , which run from 2021 to 2026 . it be important that we continue to fund that if we be to reach the aim of 1 . 5 million new home , but we need to start the building now , not towards the end of the decade . that be why I would be grateful to get some clarity from the Minister and the Department . minister have say they will publish a long - term housing strategy later this year , to set out how they will meet the 1 . 5 million target . this morning I meet one of my constituent who be a care leaver , and she speak of the huge challenge she face in get housing , partly because of the lack of affordable housing . do my hon . friend agree that support care leaver need to be part of the housing strategy ? I thank my hon . friend for that really important intervention . it be clear that so many people desperately want to get their foot on the housing ladder and be worried about the precarious nature of private renting , which be why we welcome the Government ' s ambition to end no - fault eviction , but there be much more we can do , and it start with build the home . it be important that the Government set out their plan for reach their target , instead of leave it too late , so I have three question for the Minister . first , when will the House have clarity on how much funding will be come forward in each year of the 10 - year affordable home programme ? the Government have say that spending will reach £ 4 billion a year in 2029 - 30 . what do that mean until then ? while the £ 400 million uplift account for the affordable home programme be welcome , it be not clear that that be a sufficient rise for the Government to achieve their goal of 1 . 5 million new home . secondly , when will we see the long - term housing strategy ? the Government have say that the strategy will be publish " later this year " . now that we have the long - term certainty of 10 year ' worth of funding , housing association be call out for clarity — they want to get build the home that we need . thirdly , what discussion be the Department have with Homes England about the design of the new affordable home programme ? what be the Minister ' s view on how much of that funding should go to share ownership or right to buy ? my Committee have consistently call on the Department to set out how that target will be achieve by tenure , include the important target of social rent home . my Committee have be undertake an inquiry into local government funding and we have hear that local government continue to be under severe financial strain . local authority across the country be be ask to deliver ever more , but simply have not be give adequate funding to do so . I welcome the Department ' s day - to - day spending in respect of local government and the uplift of 22 % — £ 2 . 5 billion overall — accord to the propose estimate . however , the financial strain council be face be almost entirely drive by high - cost , demand - lead service , over which council have little control . those service , which include the provision of social care and homelessness support , be vital and often rely on by some of the most vulnerable people in our respective area . the cost of social care have soar over recent year . in 2023 - 24 , local authority in England spend £ 20 . 5 billion on adult social care — 19 % of the total service net expenditure . if child ' s social care be include in that figure , it be over 30 % of the total budget . a significant proportion of the 22 % uplift in the estimate come from new money — over £ 850 million — for adult social care grant . I welcome that much - need injection of funding . there be also an uplift of £ 684 million for child ' s social care , but that figure appear to be somewhat inflate by a budget transfer from the Department for Education . while that uplift for the Ministry be welcome , it still may not be enough . I want to touch briefly on homelessness and temporary accommodation again . our first inquiry as a Select Committee in this Parliament deliberately choose to look at the sharp end of the housing crisis , and we publish report on child in temporary accommodation and rough sleeping . we find that at the heart of the crisis be over 165 , 000 homeless child and their family , who be often voiceless , out of sight and stick in completely unsuitable temporary accommodation . that be also damage council finance . I have repeat the figure before and I will repeat it again : council spend £ 2 . 29 billion on temporary accommodation in 2023 - 24 , which amount to London borough spend a combined total of £ 4 million per day on temporary accommodation . that be not sustainable . the estimate include over £ 260 million in funding for the rough sleeping prevention grant , and an uplift of £ 194 million in the homelessness prevention grant . again , while these uplift be a positive step in the right direction , my Committee hear that the restriction place on the homelessness prevention grant be quite troubling for some London council . the new ringfencing introduce for 2025 - 26 require almost 50 % of that grant to be spend on that specifically . the homelessness situation in the capital be not decease and borough be spend almost 80 % of that funding on temporary accommodation . the Committee urge the Government to engage with council to solve the issue , to ensure that we do not see a reduction in provision and to address homelessness level . the current system also have small , short - term pot of funding . we urge the Department to reform those funding stream to ensure that there be long - term sustainable funding , instead of multiple , short - term funding pot . my Committee be concern that there be slow progress on the inter - ministerial group that be develop the strategy . we know that the Department plan to publish that " later this year " . this area may not be in the Minister ' s direct remit , but will he be more specific about when we will get that strategy ? give that we can not end homelessness without build the social home we need , could the homelessness strategy be publish at the same time as the long - term housing strategy ? there be so much to welcome in the estimate for 2025 - 26 . the Government be move in the right step and the right direction , but we need to hear the detail of the affordable home programme funding , especially if we be to deliver a boost to housing before the end of this Parliament . we need to ensure that our local authority be on a stable footing to provide for the most vulnerable in our society , whether it be those who need adult social care , people sleep rough or family at risk of homelessness . I welcome the funding commitment outline in this estimate , but I urge the Government to go far and be more ambitious in their funding and financial support for these priority area . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response to my question . rise — order . we have far too many speaker , because this debate must conclude at 7 pm . we will have a hard speak limit of three minute . intervention be up to the lead speaker , but if they be not make or take , I could get everybody in . that be something to keep you go for a bit . [ interruption . ] yes , the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) remain quiet will help enormously . I rise to the three - minute challenge . we hear that this be the big investment in social and affordable housing in a generation . I be sure we all remember the day when we get the key to our first home and how that feel . we be tell there will be £ 39 billion over 10 year , but the real test be whether it reach the council and community that need it the most . as ever , we need detail and clarity , and once again it be lack from this Government and these estimate — I fear that be because of their pursuit of their ideologically drive utopia . will the Government commit to publish the regional allocation of local authority housing and affordable home programme fund , which be critical to understand the impact on our own community ? we must ensure that funding flow to not just city region , but town such as Walsall and the Walsall borough , where my constituency sit . local authority must have fair access to the affordable home programme and to infrastructure support . I have previously express my concern in a debate on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill about the lack of democratic accountability that this Government will create in their approach to planning . a further point , which have be express by the National Association of Local Councils , be that the Minister ' s Department be not proceed with commission new neighbourhood planning support service from 2025 . I feel that that be just another kick in the tooth for local parish and town council . I know that the Minister be a good man and bring load of experience to this place from his time in local government , but I do not believe that his Government be interested in local community , prefer to drive a coach and horse over our precious green space . I look at how Birmingham ' s housing target be be slash , yet our across the Walsall borough be be hike up . maybe it be because Birmingham be incompetent and can not empty its bin , but I will leave that for another day . these be arbitrary , whitehall - drive and centralised target . I have long campaign for development to happen on brownfield first , but that need real funding for remediation , infrastructure and up - front cost . under Andy Street ' s leadership and a Conservative Government , we show in the west midland that we can remediate brownfield site — look at the Caparo and Harvestime site — and deliver for local people , but we need funding , which be lack in this estimate . a failure to remediate be a failure to regenerate our town , city , community and local economy . I have do it in less than three minute , Madam Deputy Speaker . Star pupil of the day . I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for launch last week ' s consultation on the fair funding review 2 . 0 . it be a beautiful moment for those of we who represent rural constituency such as mine in Shrewsbury , because the consultation will ask council to put forward evidence that explain the additional cost of deliver service across a rural area — the all - important rural sparsity . what do it mean ? it mean that in Shropshire , we have to travel distance of up to 40 mile . imagine every person drive for social care and every school transport drive to a special need school . that can cost up to eight time more than under an urban council . we must think about our demographic . on average , we be nine year old than the rest of the country . the pressure that that put on social care mean that more than 80 % of our budget be already spend just on social care . I work in local government for 25 year . my job be in local government funding at the regional and local level , and I can say that everybody who work with I — from every party and in every rural council — have be lobby for 20 year for this kind of fair funding for rurality . my plea go out to those who be listen that they will engage with their local council and ask they to send the evidence to this consultation , because this Labour Government be listen to rural area and deliver for they . I welcome the opportunity to contribute on the important matter of how we spend money on local government , give the huge range of service it provide to each of our constituency . the resident of Bicester and Woodstock share the pressure that many area face when it come to housing and homelessness . like so many member of this House , my surgery be dominate by those who be unable to access the social housing that they wish — those who be live in inappropriate accommodation , often try to look after their child in environment in which no child can advance their education . as such , I very much welcome the Government ' s word about their ambition in this area . however , I regret the fact that during the debate on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , the Government resist the request from our party that they make a firm commitment to make 150 , 000 social home available each year . I very much hope that the Minister will look for a way to implement that goal in practice , even though he resist the legislative request . I also welcome the fact that the Government have commit to the abolition of the Vagrancy Act 1824 . that campaign , which my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) have run for many year , be come to fruition . it be so important that we do not criminalise those who be unable to access housing . I will now turn to the broad issue of financial predictability that our local authority face . the Minister will know the importance of financial management — indeed , I be sure he be catch up in it almost every day of his work life — but for local authority to plan , the Government must give they time . as such , could the Minister give we two undertaking : first , that the local government finance settlement will be multi - year , in line with the spending review , and will be set for three year ; and secondly , that the draft local government financial settlement on which council start to plan will be announce much early than 18 December as it be last year ? that announcement be one of the late in any year . in common with many member , the other theme of my surgery be the plight of many family who be cope with a child with special educational need and disability who can not access the service they need . whether it be a lack of place in special school or an inability to get the assessment they need to estimate their educational potential , too many young people be be let down . as such , give the huge deficit that have be accumulate in high need block — in Oxfordshire , for example , the figure be £ 137 million — do the Minister recognise that council simply can not wait for an education or school White Paper in the autumn to begin to understand how they will manage those figure in the future ? can he give some guidance to council about the Government ' s intention for the next financial year , so that they can start to plan for what could otherwise be deeply destabilising cut ? finally , one highlight of local government be how it touch many aspect of our constituent ' live and provide many diverse service . I call on the Minister to look at the public health grant and its role in provide for preventive healthcare , work closely with the other branch of the health system . we have figure out to 2026 , I believe , but predictability about the future of that budget be a matter of huge importance . it be a pleasure to contribute to today ' s estimate debate . I be really pleased that early progress have be make under this Labour Government , particularly the renew commitment to invest in our community , with a focus on address the housing crisis and fairer funding for local authority . I commend Ministers on the shift in direction ; however , while this government be certainly do more than their predecessor , I would like they to go much far . I welcome the Chancellor ' s confirmation that £ 39 billion will be invest in a new 10 - year affordable home programme , which provide the opportunity for long - term planning rather than short - term fix . however , Shelter and the National Housing Federation estimate that we will need to build at least 90 , 000 new social rent home every year to meet demand , and while the Government have set a target of 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , they have yet to clarify how many of those home will be social rent property . as such , it be vital that the long - term housing strategy — which be expect later this year — provide more detail . shelter ' s " Brick by Brick " report highlight that people earn up to £ 30 , 000 be fail affordability check for so - call affordable rent property . we urgently need to redefine affordability and recognise the potential of social housing . I welcome Liverpool city council ' s recent housing strategy , which include a target of 8 , 000 new home by 2027 , with 20 % designate as affordable housing . however , in my constituency , the housing crisis be both acute and immediate . we face a severe shortage of genuinely affordable home . too many family be trap in poor - quality housing , waiting list be grow , and rent level be simply unaffordable for those on average income . I place on record the ongoing campaign by resident in the Welsh street against unjustifiable rent hike impose by Placefirst . resident record their first major victory with a rent cap of 6 % . that be a significant reduction from the 30 % that be propose . I thank the Association of Community Organisations for Reform now and the local councillor , Rahima Farah , for their great campaigning . housing delivery do not happen in a vacuum . local government be the engine room of our community , and it have be run on empty for far too long . I welcome proposal to redistribute £ 2 billion in funding from wealthy council . that be a vital step towards a fair settlement for local authority , but its success will depend on swift implementation , transparency and an assurance that no local authority will be bad off . after year of damage , we be begin to see the rebuilding of local service and investment in our housing stock , but let we not mistake a good start for a job do . the foundation have be lay , and it be encouraging to see progress and further plan be in place . now , let we build with urgency , with ambition and with the determination that our community deserve . I commend the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for bring forward this estimate day debate . it be a pleasure to serve under her stewardship on that Committee . this country continue to feel the impact of labour ' s disastrous and anti - growth policy . the day - to - day spending of this Department be increase by more than £ 2 . 4 billion — an increase of 22 % — which be welcome , but it be clear that labour ' s plan to save on our planning system and the cost of local government be once again a false promise . the £ 2 . 3 billion extra be give in local government resource grant will not help our community and local people , as £ 500 million of it be just to fund labour ' s detrimental increase in employer national insurance . that tax be hurt every business up and down this country , and it be place unsustainable pressure on key sector , such as the care industry and those who provide early year care . labour continue to u - turn on its commitment and policy . the impact of its change to personal independence payment and its cruel cut to winter fuel payment can be see in the £ 800 million increase in cost for adult social care . that be yet another example of Labour ' s headline mistake cost money . an additional £ 399 million have already be allocate for the affordable home programme , and continual rise for that be unsustainable . labour will not deliver its target of 1 . 5 million new home , with Savills recently predict that as few as 840 , 000 home could be build . that be significantly less than the 2 . 5 million home and 750 , 000 affordable home build under the last Conservative Government . do my hon . friend agree that the problem with the Government ' s housing policy be that they be fail to identify the right place to build the right home ? until they do that , they will not deliver these eyewatering number , especially if they be rely on greenfield rural site . I agree with my hon . friend . we be fortunate that the Minister have a background in local government , so he understand those pressure . I look forward to further clarification on grey belt and building on brownfield first , which every constituency MP wish to see , but it be not yet transpose on to local plan and the growth ambition of this Government . I be about to come on to green belt and the change to the national planning policy framework . those change will not solve the problem that we all have identify as the bottleneck in increase development on non - green - belt land . labour ' s policy unfortunately simply cause damage . in the spring statement , the Chancellor claim that the planning reform would be the main driver of the reduction in borrowing that she have promise . however , there be no obvious reduction yet in the money give to local authority , with the amount estimate for the day - to - day spending of local government up 22 % from the main estimate last year . although the Treasury might celebrate that as be 3 % less than budget at the spending review , this dramatic increase , along with the increase of 30 % in community day - to - day spending and 27 % to the community capital fund , be simply unsustainable . labour continue to show how it prioritise area where it have support to the detriment of rural area , such as in my constituency , and area in need of support around the United Kingdom . the cut of £ 101 million in the levelling - up fund and £ 183 million in the UK share prosperity fund be disappointing , and the non - delivery of the service grant and the rural service delivery grant will place pressure on service that be already struggle in rural and semi - rural area such as my constituency , include bus service . instead , Labour be reward poor financial management by Labour - run council and mayoralty across the UK , with £ 823 million be use for a recovery grant and a funding floor and the Labour - control Greater Manchester and West Midlands authority receive the first integrate settlement , which could cause an increase of over £ 400 million in spending . Labour say that it be cut local government cost by create unitary authority , but that be just place great control in their hand at the expense of local democracy . this estimate show how little control Labour have over local government spending — and I will have to finish on that point . I look forward to hear from the Minister how he will deal with these matter . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for call this important debate . let I start with what I think should be see as positive news and welcome across the Chamber : the once - in - a - generation increase in funding for social housing . we in the Select Committee have hear about some of the dire consequence of the housing crisis that be leave to this Government , especially its effect on the thousand of child grow up in temporary accommodation . the extra funding will mean that , finally , the dial will start to move . I hope that I be not break any confidence in say that the Committee Chair and I be at a dinner with many representative of the industry on the evening that the spending review be announce . it be , I think , very rare in politic to sit in a room with people who be pretty unconditionally happy with a policy that have be announce — and , in this instance , happy about not just the extra money but the 10 - year funding settlement , which I do not think have be mention yet , and also the access to remediation fund , which will make a real difference to the number of home that be build . this be important for the entire housing sector . the model that we have for build home in Britain nowadays mean that housing fund by section 106 contribution be struggle to be purchase , because the amount provide for social housing have not be good enough . there be real confidence that this funding will start to fix that problem and move we close to the 1 . 5 million target , but , while the money be good , I think it important to urge the Government to go as far and as fast as possible with planning reform , and not to row back on the commitment we have make to ensure that the money be spend effectively and efficiently and we can unlock the home that the country need . it be also important for we to start to have a conversation about the Building Safety Regulator , which be clearly not work at present and be hold up project . we will hear back from the new town taskforce shortly ; I hope that the Government will put the necessary fund behind that programme . it be great news that we have the extra money in the multi - year funding settlement , but most council will acknowledge that they be still concerned about stretch resource , and , again , it be important for we to go as far and as fast as possible in reform special educational need and social care service to ensure that they be fit for the future . let I end by say — because the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution be present — that it be notable that the spending review provide for an increase in the funding pot that be available specifically to combined authority . we in Milton Keynes feel that the Department have act rather like Lucy pull the ball away from Charlie Brown , so please will the Department redouble its effort to create combined authority , not just in Milton Keynes but across the country , so that area that currently do not have they be not leave behind ? I congratulate the Chair of the Select Committee on secure the debate , and on the robustness of her speech hold the Government to account . the Department cover many area and council themselves cover more than 700 service , but I shall concentrate on housing , hopefully in the spirit of constructive opposition . like many other who be in the Chamber today , I support the Government ' s headline ambition to build 1 . 5 million home — it be a goal that I share , as do many in the housing sector — but I remain concerned that the Government be still unwilling , or unable , to answer my question about how many of those home will be genuinely affordable . far too many people across the country be price out of home ownership , with house price rise at an unsustainable rate . my observation be that there be simply no such thing as affordable housing in my constituency . if someone be earn £ 12 an hour and £ 20 , 000 a year , a house that cost £ 30 , 000 be not affordable . do my hon . friend agree that the only sort of housing that people can afford in my constituency be social housing ? my hon . friend will know the need of her constituency well than I do , but as someone who work in social housing for 14 year , I will always advocate for the delivery of more social housing unit . in my constituency of Newbury , the average house price in April be £ 398 , 000 — up by 6 . 2 % on the previous year . own a home be fast become a distant dream not just in west Berkshire , but across the country . although I welcome the target for new home , I urge the Government to make affordability central to their plan . the home we build must reflect the need of real people , not just developer or investor . I be pleased to see the allocation of £ 39 billion over a 10 - year period in the recent spending review — one of the most ambitious long - term investment in affordable housing for decade . I hope that it kick - start the generational step change that we need to deliver affordable home , but it must include council home and social rent home . we Liberal Democrats have be clear that we need 150 , 000 social home build every year — home that people can genuinely afford and that be link to local infrastructure and service . sadly , with the reduction of neighbourhood planning , that will now be less likely to happen . I challenge the Government to match their ambition by set their own target for social housing delivery . without that , our housing mix will be dictate by the private market , and that be simply not a viable solution to the housing crisis we face . I also welcome the £ 13 . 2 billion commitment to the warm home plan . the decision by the Conservatives to scrap our home installation policy have have a real cost , and an estimate 1 . 6 million home have be build with low energy efficiency and high bill as a result — a conservative legacy . with 6 . 1 million household now in fuel poverty , we must act urgently to fix Britain ' s cold and leaky housing stock . as the hon . member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) say , the spending review include a 10 - year social rent settlement at CPI plus 1 % , which I again welcome . housing association have long be call for that , and I be grateful that the Government have listen . that be a positive move , but we must ensure that rent remain affordable and that social landlord be hold to account . we can not allow social rent to drift higher and tenant to be price out once again , and let we not forget the 1 . 5 million people who be still wait for social housing . as the Member of Parliament for Newbury and a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , I will continue to hold this Government to account — not just on how many home they build , but on how many people they help . I start by pay tribute to officer and councillor in the London borough of Bexley for all they do . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for secure today ' s debate . for the record , my wife be employ by our local authority as a special educational need co - ordinator in a local authority school . I will briefly touch on three thing . first , I welcome the record investment in housing , but I remain deeply disappointed that my Conservative - control council sell off its housing stock 26 year ago , have no housing revenue account and , through its own development company , have build 126 home on three site and have not supply a single affordable home on any of those site . the council have use viability assessment to argue that it can not build affordable home . in the housing plan that come forward , I hope we can find way for my local authority to begin to deliver the affordable home that we desperately need . hopefully , that will be through the election of a Labour council next year , but we will wait and see — it have be a long time since we have have one in my patch . my local authority be complain about the ever - dwindle stock of private rent property that it can purchase , but it need to turn its attention to the money come forward so that it can finally deliver affordable home . secondly , on local government funding , my council cut 15 % of its staff in 2021 . it have to sell a building in order to issue redundancy notice and , at the same time , have to come to the previous Government for a capitalisation order . we hear fantasy economic from the opposition , but let we be clear : the cut that be make to local authority happen under a conservative council and a Conservative Government in my patch . I hope that the fair funding review will lead to some investment , and I know that my council be lobby hard . there have be demographic change in my patch , and I hope that we begin to see some investment in local service . lastly , as I mention in the education debate — and , again , we have hear it before — we need guarantee about the safety valve that will be end next March . my council do sign a safety valve agreement , but it continue to overspend , despite the commitment my conservative council make to the previous Conservative Government , and that be a tick time bomb for my council . on those point of how we can invest in housing , begin to have a fair funding review and look at the safety valve hang over my council , I would welcome the Minister ' s comment . I commend the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , for secure this important debate . I congratulate she on her fair and robust approach to lead the Committee , and every now and again she allow I to ask some difficult question of Government Ministers , for which I be very grateful . all of we on the Committee have take very seriously our duty of scrutinise the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government over the past year , recognise its widespread responsibility and the deep impact its decision have on our constituent right across the country . I wish to mention a couple of those responsibility . one of the big driver of the financial difficulty face council have be the catastrophic rise in the amount of money spend on child with special educational need . this be very close to my heart , as I have see it from both side . I grow up with a brother and sister who both benefit from SEND provision , and I have also be a local councillor in Hertfordshire . in just 10 year , the number of child in the county with education , health and care plan have grow by a staggering 223 % , which be even high than the 140 % national rise . the funding have not keep up . incredibly , Hertfordshire receive the third low funding per head out of every authority in the country . if it be fund at the national average , an extra £ 47 million would be available for child with the most complex need across Hertfordshire . I hope the Minister agree that it should not matter where in this country someone be bear , because the system should have the resource to meet their educational need . remove this historical funding formula would be the first step in create such a system . the Minister will of course point out that the total reorganisation of local government in this country be the answer to these problem , and that the efficiency promise by huge unitary council will solve the funding crisis . however , resident of my constituency of Broxbourne already feel that they be get a bad deal from the county council , so exactly how will force they into a much large council , which will have a much long list of responsibility for an even big area , help this situation ? as with everything the Government touch , one of the inevitable consequence of this reorganisation will be high taxis for my constituent . it will be constituent live under Conservative - control Broxbourne council who will feel this the most , as they will go from pay the low non - parish council tax in the country to , inevitably , a high charge under a merged authority . there be no way that efficiency will cover the extra spending of these bloated authority . reorganisation itself be not cost - free , and I be yet to see council that have go through a reorganisation come out say they be awash with cash . I hope the Minister be genuinely listen to the concern raise in this debate , and will come back with the Department of Education in the near future with genuine solution to the SEND funding crisis , and ensure that all our constituent have a fair say when local government reorganisation be force upon they in our area . as the new member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , I want to start with my own thank you to my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , who have be such a welcoming Chair and who drive forward our business with passion and conviction . I will focus my brief remark on the settlement for social housing , which have the potential to be transformative in our mission to build social and affordable home at scale . to understand why the challenge be so stark and why the funding be so badly need , it be right to reflect on recent history . the Conservative - liberal Democrat coalition and the subsequent conservative Governments make an ideological decision not to build home for social rent , and their lamentable record stand in contrast to what go before . in the last two year of the previous Labour Administration , 2009 - 10 and 2010 - 11 , the Government build 73 , 053 home for social rent , but in the last two year of the Conservative Government , 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 — and those be the good two year — only 19 , 365 home be complete , which be a reduction of nearly 75 % . we have 14 waste year , in which the crisis deepen for the 1 . 5 million people on social housing waiting list , for the 164 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation , and for the countless more live in overcrowded and inadequate home in the private rent sector . it be a source of pride in Welwyn Hatfield that we have retain significantly more council housing than the national average — just over one in four people in my constituency live in a social home , and in Peartree ward in Welwyn Garden City that rise to 44 % — but that still be not sufficient to meet demand . we have more than 3 , 000 people on our waiting list and grow number live in temporary accommodation — a story familiar to Members represent community all across the country . in the spending review , the commitment to invest £ 39 billion over 10 year in the affordable home programme be a statement of intent . this be the good financial settlement for social housing in a generation , but its ultimate success will be measure by the home deliver and the life change . as a member of the Select Committee , I want to continue to hear from people on the frontline about what else be need to act as a catalyst for activity . do developer have access to the skilled workforce they need to scale up development ? be the priority to bring forward stall site , and how quicky can that be do ? do people in the sector share my experience that demand for home for social rent be great than for any other tenure type ? planning and building home take time . there be inevitably a lag between a major funding announcement like this and see the impact in the community we represent , but we have to move as fast as we can . time be short and the stake be high . I commend the Government for make this investment . now , we be all invest in make sure that it deliver result . when the Chancellor give her spending review statement , I be very disappointed that she do not use the word " local authority " or " council " once . worse still , she grant the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government a tiny increase that we all know do not meet the challenge . it be an unfair deal to those who need housing and those who rely on council service . I know that as the MP for Woking . sadly , I be the MP for the most indebted bankrupt council in the country . I fear that more council will follow suit ; 25 have say that they may soon issue a section 114 notice , which effectively mean bankruptcy . local government need investment , so that we can shape our local place and our constituency to ensure that vulnerable people be protect . I do not want more council to follow Woking borough council ' s route . the Local Government Association say that there will be an £ 8 billion funding gap by the end of this Parliament as a result of that financial settlement . that be unacceptable . the Government ' s answer to that be to put up council tax by 5 % every year for this Parliament . that be unreasonable . we know that council tax be not fair . it be an out - of - date system for fund our local authority . the fact that it be base on early 1990 property value be not acceptable . Buckingham Palace have a small council tax bill than the average three - bedroom semi - detached in Blackpool . I will ask the Minister three question . will he commit to reform the council tax system to ensure that local government be properly fund , and to ensure that funding be not base on that unfair system ? local government be struggle because of social care . will he agree to lobby the Government to bring forward their social care review , so that it do not report in three year ' time ? it urgently need to report much soon , so that we can tackle the social care crisis , which be cause a problem for our NHS , and particularly for local government . finally , on special educational need , we mps hear from so many family that the system be not work . we hear from council that it be put they on the brink of insolvency . do the Minister agree that the Government White Paper and the reform in the autumn should come with a proper funding solution that support our vulnerable child and ensure that council will be financially solvent ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , the Chair of the Select Committee , for secure the debate . it be such a relief that we now have a Government who acknowledge the scale of the housing challenge , and be prepared to put serious investment and policy change behind it . in my constituency , there be 3 , 000 family on the social housing waiting list , and more than 2 , 000 people in temporary accommodation . it be those people I think of when we look at these number . there be no quick fix , and we should be honest about that . however , the package in this spending review — the big investment in social and genuinely affordable home for 50 year — be hugely welcome ; there be the £ 39 billion for the affordable home programme , which have be mention , the 10 - year rent deal , and the new low - interest loan . there be also something that I have be advocate for : equal access to the building safety fund for housing association , so that money can go towards improve home , not just remediate building . I strongly believe that the legacy of Grenfell can not be that it be hard for people to get a safe and healthy home . I have be clear to the housing association in my constituency that we expect radical improvement in their service — on repair , on damp and mould , and on communication . my message to they be that this Government will get they the support that they need to get on a sounder financial footing , but that must be accompany by a commitment to address those failing . we have keep our side of the bargain , so can the Minister outline his expectation that housing association will invest in their home follow the spending review ? can he also give an update on open up access to the building safety fund ? on building safety , I hope that the Government will take seriously the need to support the Building Safety Regulator in do its job effectively , and the need to avoid a false choice between building safety and achieve the 1 . 5 million home target . the local government funding formula will have a major impact on our ability to secure safe and healthy home . the consultation have just open . I absolutely support the objective of tackle regional inequality in Britain , so I urge the Minister to ensure that any decision make use accurate , up - to - date datum that fairly reflect the reality . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry ; I do not have much time leave . that mean include housing cost when analyse deprivation , ensure that the daytime population be include , and ensure that the huge pressure on temporary accommodation be factor in . we all want to reduce the need for temporary accommodation , but in the short term , we must not balance the temporary accommodation budget on the back of the everyday service on which our constituent rely ; that would be another false choice . the package be a huge step forward , and I congratulate all Ministers on secure it ; now be the time to deliver . I warmly congratulate the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) on the way in which she introduce the debate , and I strongly support everything she say . indeed , I support the sentiment and ambition of the Government ' s announcement of £ 39 billion in investment . however , the Government must listen to local area and , if they be intent on deliver their housing target , must allow those area to vary the way in which the target be meet . I will cite the example of my area of Cornwall . it be one of the fast - grow place in the United Kingdom , almost treble its housing stock over the past 60 year , but the housing problem of local people have get significantly bad over that period . that do not mean that the answer be build few home ; it simply mean that the target - set process be not in itself the solution to the housing problem that such place face . these target be often base on the delusion that the private market will collude with the Government in drive down the price of its finished product , which be clearly not the case . the Government need to allow that in some place , area can set target to meet need . that would mean that planning applicant have to demonstrate how they would meet need , rather than simply build home that people can not afford . that be a method that the Government need to consider . far too much of what go into the planning system be about land value speculator take far too much out of the development process . set high housing target create high hope value on all the land adjoin all our community . it be like apply the rural exception policy , but around all our area . we need to address the issue more effectively . the Government need to recognise that many shovel - ready project be currently unviable , so when money be be consider for future housing project , they need to look carefully at how they can get thing move very quickly . in Cornwall , over the past decade , £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money have go into the pocket of second and holiday homeowner , because tax incentive and loophole support that . I urge the Government to look again at wide question of housing injustice , and at the way that house be be misdeliver in area like mine , and to try to work with local community and the council to ensure that we meet need , rather than developer ’ greed . for million , the affordable housing crisis be the clear sign that Britain be break . that be why I welcome the Government ' s announcement of £ 39 billion for the affordable home programme in the spending review . that be a significant investment , but get the 160 , 000 homeless child out of temporary accommodation be a national emergency , and it demand urgent action . I ask Ministers to comment , in their response to this debate , on report that much of this funding be back - loaded until after the next general election , with only relatively modest increase over the next three year . we can not ignore the human cost of delay . this be not a static problem , or a building wait to be repair . childhood do not pause . we need to prove to the public that we be tackle the housing crisis now . when we fail to provide the basic of shelter and stability , we undermine the talent and contribution of the next generation . that failure not only harm those child , but diminish our collective future . I urge Ministers to consider Shelter ' s proposal that two third of the announce funding be spend in the first five year . match this would show true commitment to change , and offer real hope for the future . we must also ensure that this funding be use to deliver the genuinely affordable home need to bring down spiral waiting list . my constituent be understandably hugely cynical ; they be promise affordable housing , but so often what get deliver be anything but . all the evidence show that it be council housing that be desperately need by family at the sharp end of the housing crisis . the affordable home programme should deliver an end to decade of under - investment in housing for working - class community — and I know that be what Ministers intend . the way to get there be with a clear public commitment that 80 % of this investment will be for social rent . to conclude , I welcome the fact that the headline figure be ambitious and encouraging , but the detail must be refine to deliver the home that worker need . yes , that mean more up - front investment , but there be solution . housing developer fuel this crisis by build at rate that maximise profit while family wait , and by prioritise luxury build while key worker struggle to find affordable home . just as the Government rightly use a windfall tax on oil and gas giant to low energy bill , we should consider a windfall tax on the supernormal profit of the big housing developer . the major developer put profit before the public good , rake in billion while fail to deliver the home that we need . they should help pay to fix the mess that they help create . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to speak . I thank , too , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for bring forward this debate , and for her excellent chairmanship of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , which be evident from the contribution from across the House . I be here to speak not only about how construction and building home will help to create hundred of thousand of good job , but about how we need to create million more if we want everyone here to live a decent life . I be an economist , and I come to this place to ensure that everybody could earn a decent living and have enough money to pay the bill , but we be so far from that today . the average salary for a non - graduate be around £ 30 , 000 . for two earner to raise two kid , they need to earn £ 35 , 000 each , but around 40 % of full - time job pay less than that . that be 10 million worker who can not afford a decent life , and those who can not earn enough be turn away from Labour Members , as they have turn away from Conservative Members . if we want everyone to have a decent job , the Government must help to create they . we be make a good start with house building . I welcome the £ 500 million that be go into affordable house building this year , and the £ 40 billion for the 10 year to come , because construction job be good non - graduate job . build those 1 . 5 million home mean create good job . a skilled construction worker earn £ 35 , 000 . around 300 , 000 of those job will be create when we build 1 . 5 million home , and another 300 , 000 more job will be create in decarbonise building . that be welcome , but we need to create a lot more good job if we want everyone to live a decent life . we need million more — a lot more than the 600 , 000 job that will be create in the construction of home and insulation . this be a job far big than housing and local government alone . good job in healthcare , childcare and social care be all need . that be the path we should follow — the Government should create good job . we should not simply wish that enough good job will be create — that be the path we should not follow . in our technological era , growth alone do not automatically create enough good job where we need they , either for the people or place that require they . we come to this place to create a well life for all , but that be not possible for almost half of all worker because there be not enough good job . we can create hundred of thousand of good job through construction , but we need to create million more if we want everyone in this country to live a good life . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a councillor on Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council . local government funding be in crisis , from social care to special need , homelessness to high street . our council — whose work impact we all and who be the backbone of local service delivery — be be push to the brink . while the estimate sound positive , it be way more complicated , just like the work that council do . the lack of funding be not a new problem . the hollowing - out of local government have be happen for a decade . in my home council of BCP and Dorset , central funding through the revenue support grant be slash by between 95 % and 98 % over that time . the Government ' s announcement that central funding for council with low tax basis will be weight sort of miss the point . many council in the south receive no revenue support grant and be already raise their council tax by the maximum 5 % each year . the Government need to talk to the council they be target and review this proposal before they create a new problem . local area be deal with age population and soar house price , and council risk have no choice but to take money directly from service for the poor , sick and most vulnerable . the three - year settlement be welcome to help planning , and the headline £ 13 . 5 billion increase in Department funding by 2028 - 29 sound positive , but measure against 2025 - 26 it be actually a real - term cut of 0 . 6 % . while MHCLG ' s day - to - day spending will rise by £ 2 . 5 billion , much of this come through transfer . for example , much of the £ 857 million for adult social care be reallocate from child ' s social care , and the £ 515 million to cover increase national insurance contribution do not cover the demand . adult social care be now the large spending area for upper - tier authority . meanwhile , tension between the NHS and council over who fund the sick and elderly be grow , leave family stick in the middle . carer bear the brunt , often be force to choose between care and working , which have knock - on effect on the wide economy and carer ' wellbee . the situation be make bad because independent provider be not cover for the NICs increase . the Nuffield Trust estimate that the increase in national insurance will cost independent social care employer £ 940 million this year . many be hand back contract , unable to make the number add up , which be pile pressure on to council . I urge the Minister to look closely at the impact of this change . the Liberal Democrats want a social care workforce plan , a royal college of care worker to improve recognition , and a high carer ' s minimum wage . we call on the Government to complete the Casey review within one year instead of three . the elderly , disabled and our NHS deserve well than further delay . the crisis extend beyond adult care , affect our young child too . SEND provision be , as we know , inconsistent and underfunded . parent be exhausted , teacher be overwhelmed , and child be be leave behind . we be relieve , rather than happy , that the statutory override will continue for another two year , because many council would face insolvency within month without it , but this merely defer the inevitable . as debt outgrow reserve , council can not invest in their community or drive local growth . the upcoming White Paper must guarantee every child with an EHCP the support that work for they , make mainstream education more inclusive so that child can stay close to home with their peer , and urgently reform the funding formula . the funding formula do not work . in some area , the annual base funding per pupil be £ 2 , 500 less than in other . school have to fund the first £ 6 , 000 for any special educational support , but some school do not get £ 6 , 000 a year for a pupil ' s whole education . the Liberal Democrats really be beg for that to be resolve . in specialist provision , I have see independent setting charge more than £ 100 , 000 to educate child with moderate need when a state - maintain special school be do the same for £ 20 , 000 ; but , without alternative , council be force to pay . the loss of the £ 100 million rural service delivery grant be a huge blow to rural council , so I welcome the consultation on review that , but those council face not just high delivery cost but recruitment challenge . it be wrong for the Government to suggest that rural community do not face the same deprivation — tell that to some of my constituent who have no main gas and no sewerage , no job opportunity and be mile from anything . the Liberal Democrats welcome the £ 267 million for rough sleeping and £ 194 million for homelessness prevention , and we be pleased that that have be ringfence , but without a target for social house building , council remain burden with the cost of temporary accommodation . it be not just about money : the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee ' s recent report reveal that temporary housing be detrimental to our child ' s health , with it be a factor in the death of 74 child , include 58 infant , in the last five year . it also damage the developmental , mental health and life chance of every child in that situation . we therefore welcome the £ 39 billion investment in affordable housing , but we be disappointed to see how backloade it be , mean that many family will wait up to 10 year finally to get a roof over their head . finally , I want to address devolution . the Liberal Democrats support genuine devolution , so we be disappointed that the Government have cancel funding for neighbourhood plan and be discourage the formation of new town and parish council where there be local government reorganisation . instead , we be see top - down area committee with no statutory power . the spending review mention funding for mayoral area , but that benefit only those area that be ready to go . what about the area outside wave one such as Kent and Medway , or Wessex ? where be their support in the meantime ? our local council deliver every day , but they can not do it alone , so I urge the Government please to provide fair funding and real devolution for those area . I call the shadow Minister . it have be a wide - range debate . I add my congratulation to the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , for secure it and introduce it so well . I pay tribute to my conservative colleague — my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) and my hon . friend the Members for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) — for share both their view , bring from their long experience in local government , and their great passion for their constituency . I will start with the striking speech by the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , who set out many of the challenge around local government finance in her constituency . I come away from that speech thinking , " just wait until she find out which party in government slash the £ 8 . 8 million of rural delivery grant from her local authority , which have lead it to say it be have to consult on reduce bin collection far — to just once every three week — and to literally turn the light off in Shrewsbury to save the money necessary to balance the book follow this local government finance settlement . " when we come to the Chamber to debate the resource departmental expenditure limit and the capital departmental expenditure limit , it be really important , as hon . member have do , that we set out the story behind that : what it mean in our constituency for our local authority . when we start the debate , we know that it be against a backdrop of a Budget last year that leave council net £ 1 . 5 billion bad off because of the rise in national insurance contribution . that alone take £ 1 . 5 billion out of local authority ' capacity . since then , we have see a develop backdrop of rise inflation , which be now push 3 . 5 % , and deteriorate economic condition — in particular , rise Government borrowing — which may be one of the reason why the Government be seek to push back borrow the capital that fund the housing programme in the hope that cost will come down in due course . but all these thing be impose rise cost on our local authority . I have enormous sympathy for the Minister , who I know have huge experience in local government . however , as member from across the House have demonstrate in their contribution , the impact of the Department for Education ' s decision on SEND , the impact of the Home Office ' s decision on asylum funding — for Hillingdon , which serve about two - third of my constituency , that is , on its own , an additional £ 5 million per annum cost pressure — and the impact of Department of Health and Social Care decision on public health , which have a significant impact on the cost local authority face , be all accumulate . that leave the Minister and the Government with a series of difficult question that they need to address . have set out the existence of that substantial black hole in council budget , and the black hole that a number of member on all side have refer to in housing delivery , the fact that the visible symptom of council service , such as rough sleeping , be race up — accord to St Mungo ' s charity , rough sleeping have rise by 27 % in London alone — mean we know that our local authority face a significant challenge . the question that I hope the Minister will begin to address in his summing up be around the underlie financial assumption behind the figure that be set out in the report . we know that there be always a tendency in Whitehall to see local government finance as an opportunity to centralise credit by announce the positive thing that we want to see money spend on and localise the blame by force council to fund that through rise fee and charge or increase to council tax . when it come to ensure that the 1 . 5 million home in our country that already have planning permission be deliver , there need to be a relentless focus on get that money out of the door and into the hand of local authority and other to ensure that those home can be deliver . the opposition will scrutinise relentlessly , in search of the evidence that that be happen . our council face this challenge against the backdrop of a potentially costly and disruptive reorganisation . we know that many council have come forward with their own proposal for local government reorganisation . [ interruption . ] the Minister say " all council " from a sedentary position . all council be ask , invite or , perhaps , require to put forward their proposal for reorganisation . however , we know that ask , for example , all the plan officer in the country to reapply for their job be unlikely to aid that focus on housing delivery . will the Minister clarify the follow point in his response ? first , will he set out the Department ' s underlie assumption on council tax rise , fee and charge , and discount ? it seem clear from the analysis be do by local authority finance officer that the underlying assumption be that all those thing will rise in every council to the maximum possible extent , simply in order to stand still . what be the Government ' s underlie assumption about business rate rise , discount and redistribution ? I note , for example , that North West Leicestershire district council , because of the business rate reset , expect to lose 67 % of its spending power in one go as a result of the Budget . what be the underlie assumption about the housing revenue account , parking revenue account and other ringfenced council budget , so our constituent know what be come , not just in their council tax bill but in what they may pay for parking , permit , waste service and other essential day - to - day service ? let we consider the individual case come in . I make reference to the impact on Shropshire of the loss of £ 8 . 8 million in rural service delivery grant , and South Holland , West Lindsey and Staffordshire Moorlands will see a 40 % cut in their funding need assessment as a result of the Budget . there be also authority , such as Boston , that be see more than 40 % of their budget drive to cover the cost of drainage board . East Cambridgeshire district council see a cut of £ 125 , 000 a year , and Fylde district council see a rise of nil despite a headline announcement by the Government of 6 . 8 % , once those calculation be take into account . I know the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) be here early on , and Harlow report that as a consequence , the core funding — the revenue support grant — be cut by 25 % this year alone . all that have a huge impact on local Government funding and what our constituent will see . I know that there be many in this Chamber with experience in local government . our council remain the most efficient part of our public sector , but it be clear from the many constituency - level issue and the insight we have gain in this debate that they deserve well from this Government in a much more transparent and open funding settlement , so that we know the underlie assumption of Government and our constituent can understand what will happen to their council tax bill and their household budget . I call the Minister . I begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , the Chair of the Select Committee , for open the debate with her usual diligence and , rightfully , her challenge . I also pay tribute to all the other member of the Committee who be in the Chamber today for the work that they do throughout the year . it be often unseen , and maybe even unsung , but it be appreciate and it make a huge difference to the functioning of a good government . the wide range of contribution today demonstrate the significant interest in the vital work that the Department do in drive positive change to the life of many work people . on behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and my fellow Ministers , I also thank departmental official for their tireless work and dedication over the last year . they be work solidly to ensure that we get these reform through , that we sort out the funding foundation and that we deliver the ambitious plan that we set out for this Government . turn to this debate , the Chancellor take decisive step to stabilise the country ' s financing , to back growth and to rebuild every region across the country , repair the damage feel by work people , community and business after a decade and a half of stagnation . the Government must now use every tool at their disposal to ensure that we turn that tide . the new investment rule be a bold but important tool , a move that have free up an extra £ 113 billion of investment over the next five year , include for school , hospital , road , green energy and , of course , housing . this will deliver good job , as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , because housing be at the very heart of this Government ' s commitment . I be delighted that we have increase the budget for the affordable home programme by £ 400 million this year . indeed , 2025 - 26 have the big annual budget for affordable housing in over a decade . this show what can be achieve , but our effort will not stop there . the spending review announce a new 10 - year affordable home programme with £ 39 billion of new investment , alongside a 10 - year rent settlement and £ 2 . 5 billion in low - interest loan for social housing provider . this will address many of the concern raise by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) . this be a generational intervention , but do not just take my word for it . the National Housing Federation be clear that this be " a transformational package for social housing and will deliver the right condition for a decade of renewal and growth . " we have hear from many friend across the Chamber , include my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) . he echo the Deputy Prime Minister , who have long argue that social and affordable housing be a bedrock of opportunity . the home that we build now will house family for many generation to come , give they a safe , decent and affordable place to call home , keep community together and invest in the most fundamental right that the people of Britain rightly expect . that be why this be so central to the Government ' s work and one of our define mission . alongside build new home that be safe and decent , this Government be take real step to ensure that all exist home be safe , too . in response to the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry , we make firm commitment to accelerate the pace of build remediation and we be back our word with action . we have increase funding for build remediation by £ 553 million in 2025 - 26 , and we be take our annual funding to over £ 1 billion for the first time . we be also make over £ 1 billion available for new remediation funding . over the come year , social housing landlord will see the benefit and this will bring to an end the unfair two - tier system that have treat social housing tenant as second - class citizen for far too long , as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . support the most vulnerable in our society be at the heart of our Department ' s work , so we be pleased that we be make record investment into our homelessness system this year , include a £ 233 million uplift that will take homelessness funding to over £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 . alongside this , we have increase funding for the local authority housing fund by £ 100 million this year , allow council to invest in the long term by increase their stock of temporary accommodation . this will allow we to begin to bring to an end the use of unsuitable and expensive bed and breakfast to house family . it be a matter of national shame that over 165 , 000 child live in temporary accommodation . many of those kid be away from school and their friend and be often in accommodation that none of we would choose for our own family , as my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) rightly say . I say to the House that if it be not good enough for our own child , it be not good enough for any child , and we will address this scandal head on . I assure the House that the Government be under no illusion of the scale of the financial challenge that our council face . I know the difference that council can make , have have the honour of serve as a councillor over many year . that be why we be absolutely committed to work in partnership with the sector to rebuild local government from the ground up so that it be fit , legal and decent , get ahead of the crisis management and deliver well outcome for the people we be all send here to represent . the recent spending review provide an extra £ 5 billion of new grant funding in the next three year , include £ 3 . 4 billion of new grant funding to be deliver through the local government finance settlement . we be go even far by fundamentally reform the local government finance system . the current system be an outdated model that mean some place face neighbourhood decline . it hit at the heart of what it mean to live a decent life in a good place . to add to that , the escalating cost crisis in adult social care , child ' s service and temporary accommodation make matter even bad . it be not fair for outcome or for council either . although the previous Government say they understand this , they fail to take the action need to address it — we will not make the same mistake . the fair funding review 2 . 0 consultation , launch last week , set out the heart of the matter . we will take into account the real cost pressure be feel in key area , as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) . we will also take into account remoteness , as rightly identify by my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , as well as deprivation , the ability to raise council tax locally , daytime visitor number , temporary accommodation cost pressure , and much more . come to the point rightly make by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) , the cost of labour in area will also be take into account . when member see the fair funding review , I hope they will see that we have take into account those cost pressure be feel in every local authority , and that we have do this with integrity , because it mean a lot to ensure that we finally get a system right that for too long have , frankly , be break . all these measure be be support by the first multi - year settlement in a decade . the importance of that be set out by many member , but in particular by the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , who speak about the stability need and ensure that council have that firm foundation . a fair funding formula need to do just that , and this be a promise deliver . this Government have make choice , and we be open about those choice because they have allow we to make the record investment that I set out early . one of those choice be to reform the inefficient , ineffective and outdated local growth funding landscape . as such , we be continue the UK share prosperity fund at a reduce level of £ 900 million for one financial year for transition , before we move to a model of target long - term local growth funding , as confirm at the spending review . deprived community and mayoral region will see the benefit . the north and the midland will also benefit — their potential have be untapped for too long . overall investment in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland will be protect , and community will have genuine control of where funding go for their area for the first time in a long time . we be make significant investment in the thing that matter to local people — in social and affordable housing , in build safety , in homelessness and in local government . for far too long , we have see the erosion of the thing that make place safe , clean and decent and that give pride of place , because the previous Government do not take on the challenge in the way that be need . we be not willing to do that . we be not willing to stand by idly while the system fall over , outcome get bad and , in the end , cost escalate to the point of crisis . we be fix the foundation , get on with the job and finally give our council and community the justice that they deserve . I thank the Minister and the 15 member from across the country who have take part in the debate , which show the value we place on our local authority . for far too long , our local council have not always get the recognition they deserve , but they be the first line of defence for all our constituent , and it be right that they be properly fund to carry out this vital work . the Minister outline some of the key area where the Government be make big change , and it be important that we continue to press he on those key area and ask these difficult question — not because we want to , but because we see this day in , day out in our inboxe , and it be vital that we address it . we do not want any more council declare bankruptcy , we do not want any more section 114 notice be issue , and we do not want any more young people tragically lose their life because of the temporary accommodation they be live in . it be important that we help the Government in their ambition to build the home we need . the £ 39 billion outlined be a step in the right direction . our cross - party Select Committee will continue to ask the Government these question , because we believe that every single person across the country deserve a safe , secure home that they can call their own . question defer until tomorrow at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . speed Cameras : Installation Criteria Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) too many of my constituent feel they be be leave to fend for themselves on unsafe road . they be scared for their child , they be tired of report the same danger again and again , and they be angry that nothing change until someone be seriously hurt , or bad . my message to the Government today be simple : people should not have to die or be seriously injure before something be do about dangerous speeding . provisional estimate for 2024 suggest that 1 , 633 people be kill on Britain ' s road last year , while 56 % of fatal road collision in 2023 involve one or more speed - relate factor . I have three clear ask of the Minister today . first , the Government must move to take a proactive approach to fix speed camera placement , rather than wait for a tragedy before allow action . secondly , I be ask that national guidance — specifically , Department for Transport circular 01 / 2007 , " use of speed and red - light camera for traffic enforcement : Guidance on deployment , visibility and signing — be update to reflect this proactive approach . thirdly , I want the Government to make it easy for local community , who know their road well than anyone , to get the speed camera they need without have to fight for year to be hear , if the datum can back up the request . I thank my hon . friend for give way and congratulate she on secure her first Adjournment debate . many people in my constituency have write to I about this issue , particularly those in village around the town , such as Ferrensby . do she agree that in rural area like mine , there need to be a proactive stance to ensure that where there be not footpath and pavement , people be not at risk from speed vehicle ? I absolutely agree . my constituency be suburban , but a number of our area be semi - rural and have road without pavement . when pedestrian be walk along a road because there be no pavement , the danger level be increase . I agree that community need to be able to take proactive action to make our road safe . we should start with the fact . speed camera work . they reduce speeding , reduce accident and reduce death — they save life . the RAC Foundation and the Department for Transport have both show that speed camera reduce speeding and cut the number of crash . area with camera see up to a 42 % drop in fatal or serious collision . these be our child make it home from school or our grandparent cross the road safely . this debate be not about whether camera work , because we know they do . the threat of dangerous driving remain clear , and I want to take a moment to thank the Brake campaign for its work on these issue . it continue to be a powerful voice for road safety , fight for change that prevent heartbreak and loss in community up and down the country . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate . she be right to mention the organisation Brake and the good work it do ; it do the same good work in my constituency , and we all benefit . in Northern Ireland , speed camera be primarily instal in location with a demonstrated history of injury , collision and speeding problem , so they be mostly on motorway rather than in country area where there be more accident , with the result that they be not as effective as they could be . do she agree that the oversaturation in some area and underusage in other have lead to the general public lose confidence in the use of speed camera as a tool for road safety , and instead , many see it as a revenue - raise exercise ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . the safety of road user , be they vehicle user , cyclist , pedestrian or mobility scooter user , need to be at the heart of decision making on speed camera . I agree that safety rather than revenue need to be at the centre of any decision . in my constituency of Hazel Grove , the danger be real and it be happen right now . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) Gill have live on Moor End Road in Mellor for 25 year . in that time , she have see people ' s pet kill , car smash to bit and a stone wall destroy by reckless driver , but what keep she awake at night be fear for local child and elderly relative . as my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) mention happen in his constituency , part of Moor End Road do not have pavement , so people be force to walk right alongside very fast - move vehicle . for Gill , it feel like it be only a matter of time before there be an accident . we should not be wait for that time to come . too often , the question of whether local authority , combined authority or police force be responsible for fund speed camera come up . that have lead to horrible delay in place like Thorns Road and Manor Way in my constituency , where , despite fatality and decade of concern , we be still no close to get average speed camera on those hot spot . do the hon . Member agree that we need fast mechanism to agree who pay for speed camera , so that we can move quickly so that the people of Halesowen and Quarry Bank can feel safe ? I agree with the hon . member that the bureaucracy of who fund camera should not be what hold up make our road safe . we should have an agree way of fund they and community should be empower , so that if they can raise the fund themselves , whether through a parish council precept or otherwise , they should not be block from do so . give the cost incur through loss of life and injury , the expense of such intervention should be look at as a whole ; the installation of a speed camera can prevent such cost far down the line , so be a matter of make an investment in order to save . another of my constituent , Christopher , also from Mellor , know that all too well . he be involve in a terrifying crash with a steal car be drive at dangerous speed , and he tell I that he think his life be over . nobody should have to feel that fear just for be on the road . in Offerton , my constituent Chris be one of many who have contact I about speed on Offerton Road and Torkington Road . he be worried about HGVs thunder down residential street , ignore the 15 mph limit on the torky bend . he say kid be scared to walk home , near miss be all too frequent and many incident go unreported . in Little Moor , Marion live on a dangerous bend , where car have be write off , they have destroy the lamp post next to her house and a motorbike have tear up her driveway . I can not talk about speeding without mention the wonderful child of Mellor primary school . after I visit the school , the entire year 6 class write to I about speed on Longhurst Lane — I have encourage they to write to their MP about thing that they care about , and they do . child age 10 and 11 ask I for update on what be be do about Longhurst Lane , and many of they tell I that speed camera would be an obvious part of the solution . if schoolchildren can see the solution , I think we should listen . these be just a few of the voice in my inbox — there be many , many more . our community be sound the alarm , but they feel ignore and be desperate for someone to take action . here be the root of the problem : under current Government guidance , local authority should not install a fix - speed camera until after there have be three or more fatal or serious injury collision , as per circular 01 / 2007 . so three serious injury or death have to happen before speed camera be encourage — that be a disastrously reactive policy . it be a policy that say , " we ' ll only fix the danger once enough people have die or have at least come close to it . " that be surely both morally wrong and practically absurd . resident on Strines Road , for example , have repeatedly raise concern about unsafe driving . they have log the danger and show the evidence , but because the road have not yet claim enough life in a sufficiently limited time period , the current guidance be of little help . I should note that circular 01 / 2007 allow for the installation of fix - speed camera even before the usual threshold be meet , recognise that such camera can play a valuable role where there be clear community concern . however , as the answer to several of my write parliamentary question have make clear , that provision be treat very much as a secondary consideration . the Greater Manchester combine authority , which cover my own patch , frequently point to the national guidance when press on the installation of new camera in part of my constituency where local community have make their concern more than clear . the guidance fail to actively encourage or even enable local and combined authority to prioritise that proactive approach as a central pillar of their road safety strategy , where it rightly belong . both in theory and in practice , the Government ' s approach do not value prevention ; it respond only to tragedy . we need a well approach base on risk , not on death toll . let we listen when resident report repeat speeding . let we take community complaint seriously . let we use datum such as average speed monitoring and near - miss record , not just crash statistic . my community welcome the Government ' s announcement that speeding would be address in the new road safety strategy . that be a good first step , but we need to see that strategy take a proactive stance . I thank my hon . friend very much for bring forward this debate . I point out in particular that one of my resident — a man call Chris , who be now a friend — lose his wife Lorraine . she be simply cycle back from her work at school and be hit by a driver . in order to ensure that nothing so dreadful happen again , Chris pay for speed sign on his piece of road . it really should not be for individual to feel so desperate that they end up fund that themselves . certainly in my area , it be very difficult for community to prove that they need to have some sort of speed restriction . those sign be really effective , particularly since they move around in parish , which I have and which I know my hon . friend do not have . I be so sorry to hear that that happen to Lorraine and Chris . of course Chris do not want that to happen to somebody else , and it be entirely understandable that he have take action himself to remind driver of the speed limit . my constituent on Strines Road have do something very similar — every single green bin have a speed reminder on it . they have take action into their own hand . we do not have bin in rural area . there be nothing bar the speed camera . the secondary point to the one that my hon . friend raise be about local authority be properly fund so that they can take the preventive action that work for they to make their community safe . I be grateful for the point that she raise . the guidance must be revise to give clear guidance to local and combined authority , because until that change , council and local police force will continue to feel that they can not act . that be not good enough , and our constituent deserve more . my call to this Government be simple : update the national guidance to allow for the proactive , preventive placement of speed camera base on risk , not on tragedy . let we build a future where safety come first , not after the fact . let we give council the tool they need to stop accident before they happen . we also need change at the local level , so I welcome the GMCA ' s ongoing review of its speed camera guidance , which I push for for year as a councillor before be elect to this place . frankly , that review be long overdue and have take far too long . national reform will empower change at the local level , and it be that change that I will keep fight for and that I ask the Government for today . let I end where I begin . our constituent should not have to wait for tragedy before they get protection . they should not have to experience the death of an elderly neighbour , a child on their way home from school or another member of their local community to see the change that they need . speed camera work : they lead to low speed , few accident and few death on our road . I once again urge the Government to take a proactive approach to speed camera installation , to update national guidance to that effect — particularly circular 01 / 2007 — and to make it easy for local community to get the safety measure that they need . I congratulate the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) on secure this debate — her first Adjournment debate — and thank she for raise the vital issue of speed camera and the criterion for their installation . it be really good to have the opportunity to discuss an issue that she have raise with I a number of time in question and correspondence over the past year . I begin by make it clear that improve road safety be one of my Department ' s high priority , and measure to address speeding will be consider for inclusion in the forthcoming road safety strategy . as the hon . Member have say , there be 1 , 624 fatality in report road collision in Great Britain in 2023 . of those , 888 occur in collision in which , in the opinion of the attend police officer , speed be a factor for at least one vehicle . that represent 58 % of all fatality in collision for which the police record at least one collision factor . the police often refer to the " fatal four " , and I be afraid that excessive speed remain the major contributor to road traffic collision . one issue that we have across Dudley be street racing . we often have group of young man come from Birmingham , race up and down the a456 and through the back street of Halesowen , terrify some of my resident . unfortunately , despite the excellent work of Operation Hercules and the police , we have not really be able to crack down on that . do the Minister agree that street race hotspot be area where we should consider put average speed camera ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . I be sure that everyone in the House feel concern about the kind of antisocial driving occur in his constituency . it be absolutely right that local partner — the local authority and the police — should look at how good to tackle that kind of behaviour , which be undoubtedly a blight on his local community and be obviously very concerning to hear about . all available research show a link between excessive speed and the risk of collision , so I be really grateful to the hon . member for Hazel Grove for raise this issue , and indeed to other hon . member who have contribute to the debate . fatality and injury from road collision be simply unacceptable , and this Government will work hard to prevent those tragedy for all road user . the hon . member talk about action to reduce speed , include low speed limit , and action to enforce speed limit , such as speed camera . my Department ' s guidance on the use of speed camera and red light camera for traffic enforcement be not mandatory — it be guidance — and authority be invite to set their own deployment criterion if they wish . the guidance encourage authority to develop their own deployment criterion , so that they can demonstrate a local systematic approach to site selection . I recognise that at a time when local authority face a great many call on their resource , it be important that they focus those resource where they will have the most impact . unfortunately , I imagine that will sometimes mean local authority decide that they need to focus on those place where there have be ksi — where people have be kill or seriously injure . however , I encourage local authority to consider both how they can deal with place where there have be ksi and how they can take a more proactive approach . in North Yorkshire , we do not have any average or fix speed camera . we have a number of temporary mobile speed van , but they do not act as a sufficient deterrent because they move around — that be obviously the purpose and nature of they . instead , we have see lot of community speed watch group set up . do the Minister agree with I on the importance of those community group , who work so hard to highlight the danger of speeding in rural community like mine ? I agree with the hon . member about the importance of community speed watch group . I will come on to that topic a little later . the guidance on the use of speed camera and red light camera should be use alongside set local speed limit . these be tool to support our primary objective , which be reduce the number of collision and casualty and , indeed , reduce their severity . I agree with the hon . member for Hazel Grove that speed camera work . in the right place , speed camera can help manage safety risk by encourage driver to conform to the speed limit . however , they be not the only or always the good way to improve road safety . speed limit should be evidence - lead , and general compliance need to be achievable without an excessive reliance on enforcement . frankly , we can not have a speed camera everywhere , and we can not have a police officer everywhere . as the hon . member know , the enforcement of road traffic law and the deployment of available police resource , include on mobile camera , be the responsibility of individual chief constable and police and crime commissioner , take into account specific local problem and the demand that they face . local government be the main delivery body for road safety . under section 39 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 , local authority have a statutory duty to take step to reduce and prevent collision , and they have the power to set speed limit on their road . it be right that they focus on the area of high risk , which may be where tragic collision have occur , but there be nothing to stop they from implement road safety measure elsewhere . indeed , I would agree that a more proactive , preventive approach be entirely sensible . it be clearly incredibly valuable to identify place where there be a high risk and evidence of near miss . I be grateful for the Minister ' s remark . she say that it seem entirely sensible to move to a proactive approach ; do she have plan to update the guidance in a way that move towards that approach , so as to be clear with local authority ? certainly I welcome the opportunity for we to debate this issue today . I will reflect on the contribution that member have make , and on the suggestion that the hon . Member have put forward . local authority already have the power to take that approach , and I want to be clear about that . it be a myth to say that they can not act until there have be a number of fatality ; they already can . local authority also have a range of traffic management measure available to help improve safety in their area . in addition to the ability to set local speed limit , they can also introduce traffic calm measure , speed - activate warning sign and average speed camera . will the Minister consider the fact that if someone want to install a 20 mph limit in our town and city — such as Wells or Cheddar , which be plague by speed trouble — the police advice be that driver have to already be close to 20 mph for they to accept the need for a 20 mph limit ? that strike I as utterly bonker . it stifle any further discussion and the implementation of 20 mph limit , even near school . I thank the hon . member for raise that point , and I will say a little more on that in a moment . it be for local authority to determine what measure be appropriate in individual case , because they have the local knowledge of their road . any authority that have the support of the local community for instal such scheme have my Department ' s full backing . I welcome the support express by Members today , and agree that share good practice can be helpful . the Department give council update guidance on set 20 mph speed limit , remind they to reserve they for sensible and appropriate area only , such as outside school , and that safety and local support should be at the heart of the decision . that in itself impact compliance , as driver be more likely to observe the speed limit when they understand why it be there . I emphasise that we support 20 mph limit in the right place . as well as influence safety , they can influence quality of life , the environment and the local economy , but 20 mph zone and limit be well consider on a road - by - road basis . that ensure local consent , unlike blanket measure . we be therefore not in favour of 20 mph limit be set indiscriminately on all road , without due regard for the safety case and for local support ; but when there be clear evidence , and when people support they , I think it entirely right for local authority to pursue they , if they wish to . they will want to make decision about local implementation in consultation with local community and , of course , with the local police ; as I have say , they know their road good , and I can not and should not dictate to they from Westminster . while local authority be free to make their own decision about the speed limit on road under their care , provide that they take account of the relevant legislation and guidance , they be rightly accountable to local people for those decision . I understand how frustrating it be for community who feel that their concern be not be listen to and act on . however , the member who have speak today have make a powerful case for low speed limit , and we know that even the most experienced and careful driver can make mistake , and that collision at high speed be much more likely to have tragic outcome . I fully appreciate how important it be for local community to have the most influence over road safety measure in their area , but can my hon . friend expand on the forthcoming road safety strategy ? can she tell we whether there will be an even clear drive from central Government towards , perhaps , a " vision zero " approach , and towards give local community even more impetus to reduce speeding ? it be , in my view , and probably that of many other member , selfish and reckless of people to exceed a speed limit that they be require by law to abide by . I know that my hon . friend have be a great champion for improvement in road safety . the Department will consider what more we can do to support local authority and hon . member in this regard , and we stand ready to work with everyone who be try to improve road safety locally . as my hon . friend know , and as the House know , we be develop our road safety strategy , and I look forward to say more about that in the month ahead . as the Secretary of State have say , we be hope and aim to publish it by the end of the year . the police - run Community Speedwatch scheme enable local volunteer to work with the police and other agency to address identify road policing issue in their locality . I know how important they can be to local community , and I thank all those who be volunteer in this way . driver who be detect speed be send letter , and the police may take further action if a driver be detect multiple time . decision on when to adopt Community Speedwatch scheme be operational matter for police and crime commissioner and chief constable , in conjunction with local policing plan , but as I have say , the scheme can play a very important role . as I say at the beginning of my speech , the Government treat road safety with the utmost seriousness , and we be commit to reduce the number of people kill and injure on our road . the Department be develop our road safety strategy , and I look forward to the opportunity to set out more detail in due course . I welcome today ' s debate and all the contribution from member on road safety , both today and on other occasion . I be pleased that there be so much determination in the House to tackle the unacceptable loss of life and unacceptable injury that result from road traffic collision , and I look forward to work with member far on the issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .