business before Questions Death of a member as I tell the House yesterday , I have to report the death of Sir Tony Lloyd , the Member for Rochdale . I know that hon . member from across the House will join I in mourn the loss of our colleague , and I invite all member to join I in a minute ' s silence in memory of Tony . the House observe a one - minute silence . I would like to assure the House that there will be an opportunity for all of we to pay tribute to Tony at a later date . our sympathy be with his family and friend . he will be sadly miss across the House . oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Grenfell Tower Inquiry what recent discussion he have have with the chair of the Grenfell Tower inquiry on the timetable for publication of the phase 2 report . what recent discussion he have have with the chair of the Grenfell Tower inquiry on the timetable for publication of the phase 2 report . the Grenfell Tower inquiry be a statutory inquiry establish under the Inquiries Act 2005 . under the Act , the drafting of an inquiry ' s final report and the timing of that process be rightly matter for the independent inquiry chair . in its November 2023 newsletter , publish on its website , the inquiry confirm that " the report will not be publish before April next year but the Panel hope to be able to send it to the Prime Minister before the next anniversary of the fire with publication soon thereafter . " I thank the Minister for his response . it be now nearly seven year since the Grenfell tragedy , in which 72 people lose their life . what assurance have he have from the inquiry chair that there will be no further delay in the publication of the report ? it be essential that justice be do , and I know that view be echo across the House . the hon . Gentleman will have see , far to what I have just read out , the report that be publish in November , in which the chair explain that rule 13 of the inquiry rule require the inquiry " to write to those who might be subject to criticism " and give they fair time to respond . the newsletter state : " the rule 13 process be prove time consume . " however , I hope that the hon . Gentleman will be reassure by the date that I have read out . the Prime Minister assure the public that the Grenfell tragedy would not be forget , yet across many different area of concern — the lack of resolution on the future of the Grenfell Tower site , the many building that have be evacuate because of structural concern , and the lack of justice for survivor — we see a lack of urgency in address the concern raise by the inquiry . when will the Government act to rebuild public confidence and ensure that the necessary measure be take to prevent a similar tragedy happen in future ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I think it be deeply unfair to suggest that there have be a lack of urgency from the Government . the then Prime Minister announce the inquiry the day after that terrible event , and we have take huge action to provide compensation for people and to ensure that no qualifying leaseholder live in a building above 11 metre will face the cost of remediation for unsafe cladding . of course we be eager to get the response from the official inquiry , and we will take action thereafter . public procurement : Covid - 19 whether he have make an assessment of the adequacy of public procurement process under covid - 19 emergency regulation . whether he have make an assessment of the adequacy of public procurement process under covid - 19 emergency regulation . there be well establish procedure in the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 for handle emergency procurement , which enable the Government to procure lifesave good and expertise . we follow those procedure in order to save life as fast as we could during the bad pandemic in live memory . the Procurement Act 2023 , which have just pass both Houses of Parliament , will introduce fast competition process for emergency buying , reduce the reliance on direct award while retain and improve transparency , and the ability to act at pace in situation similar to the covid pandemic . I be deeply sadden by the death of our dear friend Sir Tony Lloyd . I fear that the Procurement Act will allow for the same horrific waste of taxpayer ' money and the approach to public procurement that we experience during the pandemic , with friend and donor to the Tory party be give the first bite of the cherry while decent local skilled business be increasingly sideline by the Government ' s approach . we see that in recent analysis from the British Chambers of Commerce . can the Minister explain why small and medium - sized enterprise be increasingly be sideline from access to public procurement ? I have to take issue with a number of the hon . Gentleman ' s point . first and foremost , the idea , constantly repeat by Opposition Members , that there be special consideration for individual company — [ interruption . ] it be very important that we go through this yet again . the hon . Gentleman have have answer on this twice in the past year , but I be go to tell he a third time : the simple fact of the matter be that everyone who apply for a contract go through the same process . very hardworking and professional civil servant make those judgment in uniquely difficult circumstance . frankly , I be sick of hear slur against their good name . [ interruption . ] if the Minister have to say it for a fourth time , I hope that we will not get the attention we be receive today . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) . in spite of the Minister ' s protestation , the evidence be to the contrary — [ interruption . ] order . we do not need the parliamentary private Secretary chip in . be that understand ? I be sorry , Mr Speaker . thank you . the fact that Ministers ' mate can get these lucrative contract , as last month ' s evidence show , while ten of thousand of our constituent struggle to put food on the table be an absolute disgrace . of the £ 12 . 6 billion - worth of personal protective equipment contract let in 2020 , will the Minister confirm — I have evidence on this , so I advise he to choose his language carefully — that up to a third be fraudulent , or the result of profiteer or conflict of interest ? I would be very interested to see the hon . Lady ' s evidence . where there be evidence of fraud , we will of course go after that , as we have do so in a number of high - profile case . where investigation be ongoing , we will recoup as much money as we can for the british taxpayer . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , wish to put on the record my condolence to Tony Lloyd ' s family . he will be miss across the House , and across the Labour movement as a whole . the Government lose £ 9 billion through duff , unusable PPE . the Prime Minister , when Chancellor , sign off £ 7 billion - worth of dodgy covid loan . even today , the Government be lose £ 10 billion to tax fraud , £ 6 billion to universal credit fraud , and billion more across the public sector as a whole . be the truth not that family be pay £ 1 , 200 more on average in tax because the Government simply can not be trust with taxpayer ' money ? I really struggle with that line of questioning . opposition Members have very short memory . this be the bad pandemic that we have have in over a century . the pressure on Government be immense . the accusation that we buy too much PPE be akin to people stand up in 1945 and say that the Government buy too many Spitfires . cyber - security what step his Department be take to strengthen cyber - security . I know that my right hon . friend be particularly interested in this issue follow cyber - attack in her constituency in 2019 . I can assure she that we be improve cyber - security defence across critical national infrastructure and Government organisation . initiative such as GovAssure , which I launch last year , be set high standard for resilience , and the Government ' s cyber co - ordination centre be enable collaboration and information sharing on cyber - security good practice . I add my condolence to those express to Tony ' s family . Cyber - security be the big risk that many company face , but many small and medium - sized business be not insure . buy good - quality cyber - security insurance can involve a health check to ensure that system be protect . the UK be the world leader in insurance and Chelmsford have the large cluster of insurance company outside London , so will the Minister meet I and representative of the London insurance market to discuss how an improved quality mark for cyber - security could increase the availability of cover , ensure that business and public sector body be well protect ? I would be very happy to do so . as my right hon . friend point out , cyber - insurance play a vital role in help to build resilience and we have a share interest in develop it . the National Cyber Security Centre have stand up the cyber - insurance industry working group , which be work through all these issue . I have meet with Lloyd ' s of London , and both I and Treasury Ministers will be happy to have further such meeting . have the Secretary of State read the speech make by the Auditor General this week about cyber - security , which say that lack of investment in upgrade our infrastructure make the Government vulnerable to cyber - attack ? be he comfortable that we be safe from such attack ? do that not show that the Tories be penny wise but pound stupid ? I be aware of the speech and I have speak in the House on many occasion about the challenge we face on cyber - security . it be an increase threat landscape , but the Government be take a range of action to improve our cyber - security , not least GovAssure , which I announce last year . that be about go through the cyber - security of all Departments to bring it up to scratch . we publish the cyber - policy handbook and we have introduce " secure by design " principle so that all new Government it procurement project be secure from the outset . I call the shadow Minister . the recent British Library incident be a stark reminder of the terrifying security risk and enormous cost of cyber - attack , and recent ministerial answer have reveal a shockingly high number of red - rate IT system across Government Departments . I hear the Secretary of State ' s word , but give that the Government ' s cyber - security strategy tell we that " transparent central governance structure will maintain oversight and responsibility for cross - government cyber security risk " , will he now set out the Government ' s timetable for remedy this shocking situation and explain how he will keep the House update on progress ? we know about this in the first place because of the work undertake by the Government to fully understand the cyber - security risk face this country . we be well prepared than most country around the world . none the less , in respect of the red - rate system , we be develop remediation plan , all of which will be in place by next year . we be track progress and be confident that we will achieve over £ 1 billion in efficiency saving , in addition to achieve great resilience by next year . public procurement : sme what step his Department be take to improve access to public sector procurement process for small and medium - sized business . what step his Department be take to improve access to public sector procurement process for small and medium - sized business . the Procurement Act 2023 will deliver simple and more effective public sector procurement , and it will help sme secure a great share of approximately £ 300 billion of expenditure every year . the Act include a new duty on contracting authority to have regard to the particular barrier face sme and to consider how they can be overcome . to some extent , sme have historically be block out by large company . this week it be report that the Government try to block Fujitsu from bid for future contract , on the basis of woeful performance in previous contract . government lawyer have advise that this can not be do , but they be wrong . will the Government give far serious thought to block large company with terrible track record , such as Fujitsu , from bid for future contract and , if necessary , legislate accordingly ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . as he will know , there be clearly define circumstance in which the Government can exclude company from bid for contract . with regard to Fujitsu , he may be interested to hear that this morning the Cabinet Office receive a letter from Fujitsu voluntarily undertake not to bid for Government contract while the inquiry be ongoing , unless of course the Government ask it to do so . when it come to small and medium - sized enterprise get Government contract , sometimes the devil be in the detail and the unintended consequence . one business have tell I that the prior year turnover to contract ratio restriction in public procurement be hinder the growth of business such as Kromek in NETPark , Sedgefield , force they to surrender margin to prime contractor and meet the contracting eligibility requirement , cost the UK Government the good innovation and cost sme growth . will the Minister please commit to explore alternative measure for assess contract eligibility , include look at the model of the US Government and their associate agency ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I know that he will have follow the passage of the Procurement Act 2023 through Parliament closely , as will business in his constituency — particularly sme , I hope . he will have see that the Act remove unnecessary obstacle relate to audit account and insurance for the condition of participation , mean that small business will no long be shut out of the procurement process or incur unnecessary cost . that duty that I refer to early for those procure Government contract to consider how to remove barrier to sme will really change the landscape for our small and medium - sized enterprise . in his reply to the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , the Minister totally miss the point , because he refer to define reason why company could be exclude . the Government and Parliament make the rule . they have be drag their foot month after month , year after year , on change that in this regard , but also in term of support domestic industry , as every other major economy do . when will they sort this out and get it down to the House and into the rule , over civil service intransigence and delay tactic ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear what I just say to my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) . I know that , as a lover of due process , he will believe that the statutory inquiry should appropriately have the final word on this . and when it do , we will have absolutely no compunction in act . may I , too , convey my sympathy to the family of Tony Lloyd ? I thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow we the opportunity to come together more fully as a House to pay tribute . I thank the Minister for his answer . my constituent in Strangford , and indeed people across Northern Ireland , include a large number of small and medium - sized enterprise and business — they create many job , wage packet and opportunity — very much want to be part of this process , and I know the Minister be keen to support we . what can be do for defence procurement , for example , and also for the food and agriculture sector , because we have great company that have the potential to do well . can the Minister add his support ? I certainly can . as my hon . friend will know , Northern Ireland agree to be part of the new procurement regime when we pass the Procurement Act , which be fantastic . sadly , that be unlike our friend in Scotland , who will miss out on all the benefit of the good modern procurement framework in the world . that mean that small and medium - sized enterprise in his constituency will now have a well opportunity to bid for Government contract . I very much enjoy be in Northern Ireland at the end of last year . I be go again in the next few month and would be happy to meet any business that he would like to put I in touch with . support for Female Veterans what step he be take to improve support for female veteran . the Government will publish our first woman veteran ' strategy in the spring , focus on the specific need of woman veteran . the Office for Veterans ' Affairs have provide £ 445 , 000 to well understand the experience of woman veteran and to increase support for those who have experience military sexual trauma . I thank the right hon . member for his answer . will he join I in recognise female veteran who not only serve themselves — as I know he do — but support veteran in their local community , such as my constituent Morag Lightning ? she be an RAF veteran who volunteer as a RAF Association welfare officer and who do too many thing to mention in our community , for which she be award a british empire medal in the King ' s new year ' s honours list . would he join I in congratulate she on that ? I pay huge tribute to Morag and the many other who I have meet over the past few year who work night and day at the coalface of veteran ’ care and policy . they be the true hero in look after our veteran . it be the nation ' s responsibility , and those who have leave the military often set the example for how we look after our veteran . I pay tribute to she and the hundred and thousand of other across the country who spend night and day help veteran . I welcome the woman veteran ' strategy and the update that the Minister have give on it . will the strategy take into account the finding of the review of veteran ’ welfare service , which I be pleased the Government carry out ? yes , of course . the review of welfare service for veteran be the most significant review that have happen ever on the statutory service of veteran ’ affair across the Ministry of Defence and across Government . it have of course be a concern of mine for some time that female veteran have not feel as include and as part of the veteran ' community as I would want they to feel . I be absolutely determined to over - correct that and ensure that woman veteran be look after and be as proud as I be of their service and of be in the veteran community . I call the shadow Minister . the Centre for Military Women ' s Research have identify numerous gap in our understanding of woman ' s experience in the military , the consequent problem they face and the reluctance to pursue research on those matter . be it right to presume that the woman veteran ' strategy — I hear what the Minister say about his genuine concern on these matter — will be his main vehicle for ensure that we tackle those issue ? absolutely ; the point of the strategy , essentially , be to ensure that the voice that have be unheard for too long be hear . I know that there be unmet need and pain in the female veteran community . there be also huge pride , and there be extraordinary example of those who have serve and have go on to achieve extraordinary thing in their life . we will of course look to achieve balance ; I want to ensure that female veteran be correctly cater for and look after in this country . I want it to be the good country in the world to be a veteran — and that be for all veteran , female or male , across the piece , irrespective of cap badge . I be determined to keep go until we get there . cyber - security what step his Department be take to protect public service and institution from cyber - threat . we be protect our public service from cyber - threat through our world - lead Government cyber - security strategy . we be also tackle the threat at source . last year alone , we sanction 18 criminal responsible for spread a prolific ransomware strain , and we expose the russian intelligence service for their attempt to target high - profile individual and entity through cyber - operation . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . in the wake of the recent attack on the British Library , will he tell we what assessment the Government have make of potential cyber - attack on other non - departmental public body ? how will he ensure that they be not vulnerable to similar attack and that the country be not bring to a standstill ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to highlight that attack . it demonstrate that such attack can affect not just central Government ; any agency of government can be subject to they . indeed , we discuss it at Cabinet just this week . I continue to co - ordinate activity through the ministerial cyber board , and the National Cyber Security Centre work closely with Government agency , include the British Library , to ensure that they be as robustly prepare as they can be . minister ' interest : transparency what recent discussion he have have with the independent adviser on minister ' interest on ensure transparency of declaration . there be an establish process in place for the declaration and management of interest hold by Ministers , as set out in the ministerial code . the independent adviser on minister ' interest publish a twice - yearly list of Ministers ' interest . since 2023 , interim update to the list be also issue as need . the late list be publish in December . public appointment declaration be important . as the public face of scandal - ride Greensill Capital , it have be say of Lord Cameron that he earn $ 10 million , be pay via an offshore trust and enjoy many personal flight on Greensill ' s plane . yet when challenge on his remuneration , Lord Cameron refuse to answer , say that he have be a private citizen and have declare all the information for the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the reply that I receive from the independent adviser about all that say that , on appointment , Ministers must declare their private interest . I ask the Minister how a member can get answer to question about Lord Cameron ' s employment before his appointment . surely , if someone get a new public job , answer to fair question should be lay out for we all to see ? as the hon . Member say , integrity be vital in this place and we all adhere to high standard . he will also know that there be an establish regime in place for those declaration . the Foreign Secretary have adhere to those and , as he have say , he have just one job now , Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom . he be very proud to have that job and to work with the Prime Minister to try to make sure our country be as safe and prosperous as possible . I call the SNP spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker . please accept my apology if my voice give out part - way through my question ; I will do my good . our thought in the SNP be with Tony Lloyd ' s family , his constituent and all those feel the pain of his loss today . the Prime Minister and four Ministers , include the Foreign Secretary , hold their wealth in blind trust or management . the " Ministerial Code " say : " minister must ensure that no conflict arise , or appear to arise , between their public duty and their private interest " . how can the public trust their politician when that money be hide from public scrutiny ? I repeat that there be establish regime in place for the declaration and management of interest , and they be oversee by an independent adviser , who publish report twice a year . I read the report that be publish in December . Lord Cameron lobby on behalf of the chinese state ' s belt and road initiative , aid the geopolitical and economic interest of the Chinese Government . the 49 - day Prime Minister also seek to export defence equipment to China . if there be nothing to fear , there be nothing to hide . will any new requirement be place on UK politician to disclose in full interest from foreign state , even when those be in blind trust or management ? I refer the hon . Lady to the late list of Ministers ' interest , which be publish on 14 December 2023 and include the relevant interest of all Ministers form the Government as of 14 December 2023 , include the Foreign Secretary . our clear - eyed position on China remain unchanged and our approach of engage directly and robustly with China in the UK national interest be the right one and be firmly in line with that of our G7 and five Eyes partner . Artificial Intelligence : Public Services whether he have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the use of AI on the delivery of public service . I discuss this area regularly with Cabinet colleague . the Incubator for Artificial Intelligence , which I announce last year , will recruit expert from the private sector , academia and beyond , who will work with Departments to rapidly and responsibly develop new application for artificial intelligence across Government , as part of radical plan to harness the potential of AI to improve life and public service . I join other in pay tribute to the great Sir Tony Lloyd ; our thought and prayer be with his family today . I thank the Minister for his answer . as the Government have start work on an artificial intelligence hit squad to eliminate civil service job and replace human labour , it be of urgent importance that they lie out the safeguard they will enact . the childcare benefit scandal in the Netherlands in 2021 , where artificial intelligence bake in racial profiling that discriminate against minority , highlight the necessity of strict control and protection , so will the Minister reveal what step they be take to prevent the harmful use of artificial intelligence ? it be not the case that this be about take job off civil servant ; it be to enable they to do their job well and more efficiently for the benefit of the public we serve in this place . in respect of the measure that we be take to ensure that we follow good practice , the Government ' s Central Digital and Data Office be ensure a high delivery of quality and regular testing of that software throughout all stage of development . in addition , there be a service assessment model , so we be take a number of step to ensure that we guard against the risk that the hon . Gentleman highlight . infected Blood Inquiry what progress his Department have make on implement the interim recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . as I set out on 18 December , I be pleased with the progress that we have make in appoint an expert group to assist on technical detailed consideration of those recommendation . it be announce yesterday that the final report will be publish on 20 May , and the Government be commit to update Parliament on the next step within 25 sit day of publication . the publication of the final report into the infected blood scandal have yet again be delay , cause dismay for hundred of people , include some of my Chester constituent , who be still wait for justice . in this matter , time be precious . the Government commit to introduce primary legislation early in the new year to enable the establishment of the compensation scheme . give that the House have show its majority support , will the Minister confirm that the Government will now get on with it ? I take the will of the House very seriously . that vote be on 4 December as part of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , which will now be work through its next stage in the other place the week after next . I have be work with colleague across Government to ensure that we be able to respond appropriately at that time . I call Father of the House . the House understand that it be the Minister ' s Department that have to co - ordinate government , and that be not an easy thing to do . do he understand that Sir Robert Francis and Sir Brian Langstaff have make it absolutely clear that the final report will say nothing more about compensation ? it be not just the victim of the infected blood scandal who matter ; so do the family of those who have already die — they be die as well . may I say , on behalf of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood — I be sure that the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) would say the same — that 25 day after the report be publish in May be too long to wait ? People want certainty and need support . I thank my hon . friend for his empathy with the complexity of deliver this . I recognise the urgency , of course . that be why , over the recess , I have several meeting with official . we be move forward with the appointment of the clinical , legal and care expert . however , I recognise that his focus and that of colleague across the House be on the speed of delivery of payment . obviously , we make those interim payment far to the first interim report recommendation in October 2022 . I will continue to have meeting with colleague to move this forward as quickly as I can . Personal Smartphones : Government Business what recent assessment he have make of the prevalence of the use of personal smartphone for conduct Government business by Ministers and official . the Cabinet Office do not hold datum centrally regard personal smartphone use . we be committed to ensure that government business be conduct securely and to support individual in meet their security responsibility . in March last year , we publish guidance concern the use of non - corporate communication channel for Government business , which set out consideration around the use of private device . I may be part of a very small and shrink group , but I think it be sensible that Ministers , official and adviser should be able to share their thinking and thought in private on occasion . however , the truth of matter be that the constant drip of story — whether about Boris Johnson , Nicola Sturgeon or anybody else — and WhatsApp message not be available to hold people accountable , be harm public confidence in government and politic . will the Minister look again at this to see how we can have good , accountable and transparent government ? the right hon . Gentleman raise important point . I draw his attention to the document we publish last year : " use non - corporate communication channel ( e . g . WhatsApp , private email , SMS ) for government business " . I think he will be particularly interested in the summary table on page two . honour System what step his Department be take to increase transparency in the honours system . we have make a number of important change to increase transparency . we have launch a new website and online form to make it easy for anyone to make a nomination . we have bring the recruitment of the independent honours committee , which make the honours recommendation , into line with the governance code for public appointment , and we have bolster probity check through new and renewed agreement with vetting body . the Post Office scandal and Paula Vennells ' hand back of her CBE have shine a real light on the need for more scrutiny and transparency in the honours system . do the Minister agree that the vetting process — the scrutiny and transparency — be need more than ever in our honours system to protect its integrity ? I do agree . give that my hon . friend be a former sub - postmaster , I can fully understand why he feel so strongly about this matter ; he be absolutely right to do so , and I thank he for all the work he have do for his fellow postmaster and sub - postmaster . it be important that we protect the integrity of the honours system , which be something to which this Government be committed . we have undertake a range of action to strengthen check , include expand criminal record check and work closely with regulator and other body to ensure full due diligence for all nominee . I call the shadow Minister . the right hon . Lady have just speak about the integrity of the honours system , but the Government have fail to be transparent around the interest of Baroness Mone in the PPE Medpro contract , where over £ 200 million be waste . we have no answer from the Government as to why the link be not make public at the time ; no answer as to why a Government Minister do not correct the wrong impression that have be give in public ; and no answer in response to the allegation that the Government indicate a National Crime Agency investigation would be drop if the civil claim be settle . back on 18 December , Labour call on the Government to order an urgent investigation into this matter to give taxpayer the answer they deserve , but the Deputy Prime Minister have not even respond to the letter . be the reason the Government be so afraid of an investigation that it will just show , once again , Tory sleaze ? we have respond . you have not respond . have you not have our letter ? I have not have it . I will say from the Dispatch Box that the answer have be send and give . if it need to be reissue , we will do so , but it have be send . Baroness Mone have take leave of absence from the Lords , and there be separate investigation into the allegation against she . in my mind , if she be find guilty of wrongdoing , she need to resign membership of the Lords — the public would expect no less . the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 ensure that a Member convict of serious offence will cease to be a Member of the House of the Lords , and that be what we want to see . we do not want people in Parliament who bring either House into disrepute : they need to leave . veteran ' Skills what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on help to ensure potential employer recognise veteran ’ skill and prior learning . veteran ' employment be at an all - time high , with 87 % of those leave service find employment within six month . we have recently launch the employer ' guide to hire veteran , showcase good practice on how employer can benefit from veteran ’ skill and qualification . I regularly champion veteran ' employment to Cabinet colleague , as employ veteran be one of the good decision that business can make . be it not the case that , after 13 year of Conservative Government , Ministers have create a postcode lottery for veteran and halve employment support for they ? specifically , will the Minister tell the House how many veteran have be employ as a result of the civil service interview scheme for veteran ? when it come to veteran ' care in this country and how it have change in the past 13 year , it be hard to take the hon . Gentleman seriously — those service have be transform . the number of those employ through the civil service scheme be , I believe , over 1 , 000 , but I will write to he with the correct figure . have a job be the no . 1 factor that improve the life chance of any veteran in this country ; it be the real focus of what we be do at the Office of Veterans ’ Affairs , and I be incredibly proud of those effort . again , I lament the fact that that be not reflect by Labour . I want to see that change as we go into the next election , so that veteran know that whoever win it , their interest will be represent properly . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this week , I sign an agreement on biological security between the United Kingdom and the United States . this strategic dialogue will mean share more datum , collaborate on research and co - ordinating action , prepare for a whole spectrum of biological threat . I also sign a memorandum of co - operation on cyber partnership with Japan , help to fulfil a key element of the Hiroshima accord . this week , the Government be make available a free portrait of his Majesty the King . available to all public building , this portrait will hang in school , police station and local authority , serve as a reminder of the country ' s ultimate public service . I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in wish his Majesty the King and her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales very swift recovery . it emerge this week that Avanti West Coast boss be recently catch give PowerPoint presentation brag about receive free money from the Government . be this value for money ? I be not aware of those allegation , but they sound very concern and I be very happy to look into they on behalf of the hon . Lady . last year , the Government trialle their emergency alert system . this summer , I have the joy of go to South Korea . unfortunately , I be catch up in the typhoon , but there be many such alert tell people where road be close or flood . recently in Leicestershire , the like of Shenton and Witherley come under the cosh of flooding , and my constituent be wonder whether the alert system could be use for something like this , as the Government website state that it can . yes , the service be available , but it be up to local responder to determine whether to put in a request for it . in this case , they do not do so . I would commend the local responder — whether the Environment Agency , the police or the fire service — for their response . that tool be available to they should they need it . I call the shadow Minister . I echo the condolence that have be give to the family of Tony Lloyd . far to the question about flooding , yesterday the Public Accounts Committee say that over 200 , 000 property in England be vulnerable to flooding , and the budget for flood protection be now expect to cover 40 % few property than the Government originally say it would . we have see the devastation that flooding can do in recent week and the terrible consequence for those affect . give the Cabinet Office ' s responsibility for resilience , can the Secretary of State explain why the plan be so far behind schedule and what the Government will do to protect the 200 , 000 property that may now be leave without adequate flood protection ? as the right hon . Gentleman highlight , the Cabinet Office have responsibility for resilience under a lead Government Department model , but the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be responsible for individual flood defence . we have put record sum into flood defence and we have provide record flood defence building . clearly , there be more to do to allocate those resource , but we have make considerable progress . this week , Gareth Davies , the head of the National Audit Office , say that Ministers could save up to £ 20 billion a year of taxpayer ' money by modernise IT system , tackle fraud and well management of major project such as HS2 . he also say that out - of - date IT expose the UK to a great risk of cyber - attack , and we have hear reference this morning to the cyber - attack on the British Library . why be it that time after time , the Government reach for tax rise — such rise will leave a typical family pay £ 1 , 200 a year more in tax — instead of save money by get a grip of these it project and major infrastructure project , as have be call for by the National Audit Office ? that be precisely why we have create I . AI — the Incubator for Artificial Intelligence — under my leadership to make sure that we apply artificial intelligence to drive down the cost of public service and to improve output . I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that it be a bit rich to be take lecture from the Labour party , which waste over £ 26 billion when it be in government on fail IT project — fail IT project in the NHS , the Ministry of Defence and DEFRA . and where be the right hon . gentleman ? he be sit in Downing Street while that happen . may I first associate myself with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s word about the royal family ? on 23 February , this House have the opportunity to correct the constitutional sexism that mean that one eighth of the seat in the other place be reserve for man only . will the Government support and work with I on my Hereditary Titles ( Female Succession ) Bill to ensure that the succession of peerage move in line with that of the Crown ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and the work she have do in this area ; I know she have think about it a great deal . I will be write to she in due course . it be a complicated area of constitutional law , but we appreciate the position from which she be come . in light of the shocking revelation that only 2 % of the tip - off receive by the Government ' s covid fraud hotline be be actively pursue , can the Secretary of State explain to an increasingly despairing nation what step the Government be take to recover every single penny of that fraudulently claim taxpayer money ? that be precisely why we set up the Public Sector Fraud Authority and I can update the House that in its first year it meet more than double its target . in addition , there be both civil and criminal investigation ongoing to bring every person responsible to justice if they have defraud the taxpayer . my constituency boast the high number of veteran of any in the UK , with about 12 % of people have serve , but the veteran agency be not assist I and other mp like I in serve my constituent , because when I raise issue with it , it insist on respond via ministerial correspondence from the Ministry of Defence . there can therefore be no direct interface with it , make it very time - consume and frustrating for my constituent . will the Minister get the veteran agency to introduce an mps helpline so that veteran ' concern can be answer quickly and efficiently ? I believe my hon . friend be refer to Veterans UK , which be be retire because I be well aware of the plethora of issue . we have staff there who work incredibly hard but with very poor resource , and consequently the experience of veteran have not be what I want it to be . we be retire that brand and completely revamp those service — I take on board the point about an mps hotline , which exist in other Departments . I can confirm that we be look to establish the same thing in the new organisation to meet these claim . give the Paymaster General ' s answer to colleague early , may I remind he that Sir Brian Langstaff say yesterday that compensation proposal be publish in April 2023 and must be deal with urgently ? can he confirm that Sir Brian Langstaff ' s proposal be be accept by the Government in full and that there will be no watering down of the decision of this place when the other place discuss the Victims and Prisoners Bill ? the next stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill in the other place will be the week after next , and that be where the Government will make clear their response to what the Commons have decide . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) a few moment ago , the issue of further interim payment will need to be consider in the round as the Government consider the recommendation of the second interim report . we be very aware of the urgency of this . however , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will understand , there be a lot of complexity with respect to the different cohort and we be work on those as rapidly as we can with the expert now in place . end veteran homelessness and rough sleeping have be an absolute passion of the veteran Minister . can he give we an update on how this be fare after the festive period ? we make a commitment that this Christmas we would end rough sleeping for veteran in the UK because of a lack of provision , and we meet that promise . we house 407 of the most desperate , most vulnerable veteran across the UK and I be incredibly proud of that . the charge towards end all homelessness across the UK be clearly something we be all engage in , but I be incredibly proud of the team at Op Fortitude . I pay tribute to Lee Buss - Blair and the Riverside Group who work throughout Christmas to achieve that objective . it be a fantastic base to build from and I look forward to the day when these service be no long require . this week , the head of the National Audit Office tell Parliament that between £ 4 billion and £ 8 billion of annual efficiency could be achieve by well use of competition . when so many area of our public service be on their knee and would benefit from that funding , can the Secretary of State set out what step he be take to stop this colossal waste of taxpayer ' money ? well competition and well procurement be at the heart of the Procurement Act 2023 , which the hon . Lady will have see go through the House of Commons and the House of Lords last year . the Act create a world - lead framework for the good use of public money in acquire good and service . as other have say this morning , every week victim of the contaminated blood scandal will die as we wait for the final report . we know the will of the House on this . why do constituent have to wait any long for the compensation scheme ? yes , it be complex , but the Government have be repeatedly challenge on get on with this and they be still not do it . we need it urgently . as I have say , if the House of Commons have indicate its will by the amendment , that piece of legislation move to the House of Lords and the Government will respond at that point . that be the week after next . that be the process of the House . I have recognise the need to ensure that we get the clinical , legal and care expert in place . they be in place , and they be work on some of the complex issue the hon . Lady allude to . the psychological support be now in place , but I be do everything I can in every dimension of this complicated problem to deliver as quickly as I can . [ Official Report , 5 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 2mc . ] ( Correction ) I have just listen to the Minister ' s response , and I appreciate that the situation be complex , but people be die . my constituent contact I early this week . he have renal failure and cirrhosis of the liver . he write ask for " fast resolution to the infected blood scandal compensation before it be too late for myself and other to see full and final resolution " . it might be too late for my constituent — he can not wait two more week — but can the Minister outline how many people have receive interim payment and how many be still outstanding ? a large number of payment be make available quickly in the last quarter of 2022 . I fully recognise the absolute tragedy that this be . every death be a tragedy . this be the big scandal in the NHS ' s history . I recognise and acknowledge that . the victim ' organisation say that there be 141 death last year , and I be do everything I can to find solution as quickly as possible . arm ' s length body across Government spend more than £ 200 billion a year , and my Committee have be look at that issue . the Government launch the public body review programme as part of their late drive to look at quango , but there be little in the public domain . will the Minister commit to publish the review of individual quango as it go through ? what will the final publication date be for the outcome of the review ? in the spring statement in March 2022 , the review of public body be announce , as the hon . Lady know . that will give we significant saving . there be 125 arm ' s length body review , cover 90 % of arm ' s length body expenditure . honestly , I be not familiar with the exact protocol around publication , but I be happy to look into it , and I will come back to she . in 2012 , the Cabinet Office reject my request that it fund the forensic investigation into the Horizon IT system by Second Sight . indeed , the Cabinet Office insist that the Post Office pay for its own investigation , which ultimately allow the Post Office to try to control and coerce the lead investigator Ron Warmington , thus delay justice for the sub - postmaster . will the Minister look into the reasoning behind this historic decision and write to I about it , please ? I be happy to do that . what discussion have the Minister have with the Police Service of Northern Ireland ' s cyber protect team in relation to learn the hard lesson that have arise from the numerous datum breach of office information across the PSNI and throughout the United Kingdom ? this be an appalling incident , as the hon . Gentleman know , and it highlight big flaw in how datum be handle in respect of freedom of information request . we have issue further guidance on how such request should be handle , but I continue to work with official in my Department and across Government to make sure that that sort of incident never happen again . that complete Cabinet Office question , and we will soon be go on to the next set of question . as I say , next week we will be pay tribute to our friend Tony Lloyd follow his tragic death , but I have no doubt that the shadow Leader of the House , who take over his previous seat , will have a comment to make . I be just watch the clock tick down — we be nearly there . business of the House we head now to business question . I call the shadow Leader of the House . beautifully do , Mr Speaker . may I ask the Leader of the House for the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 22 January will include : Monday 22 January — second reading of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . Tuesday 23 January — opposition day ( 3rd allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the Official Opposition , subject to be announce . Wednesday 24 January — general debate on Defence and International Affairs . Thursday 25 January — general debate on Holocaust Memorial Day . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 26 January — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 29 January include : Monday 29 January — second reading of the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 30 January — remain stage of the Media Bill . I thank the Leader of the House . I want to start by pay my own tribute to my dear and hon . friend Sir Tony Lloyd . the word speak about Tony since his passing yesterday , which have come from across this House and the political divide , really be a reflection of the special person he be . he be kind , sincere and drive by his deep value and principle . he work with everyone necessary to further a cause , and always with integrity and humanity . Tony be also my predecessor as MP for Manchester Central . as I say many year ago in my maiden speech , he be a brilliant man , first elect in 1983 , serve Stretford and then Manchester Central for 29 year before be elect as police and crime commissioner for Greater Manchester . he then return to Parliament to serve the people of Rochdale from 2017 . he be an incredibly hard act to follow ; I still often find myself in his shadow . for the first few year , I have to accept the frequent complaint that I just be not as good . some of my constituent still say , " you ' re no Tony Lloyd , be you ? " he be a proud Mancunian — but we do disagree on football as he be a long - stand season ticket holder for United . we all know what Tony stand for and the cause he hold dear and tirelessly campaign for , but in all the year I know he I can not remember ever hear he raise his voice . he go about his politic differently . for he , politic be all about relationship and discussion , whether in this place , internationally , on the street or in his beloved pub . that be what earn he so much loyalty from everyone who know he — because he be such a thoroughly nice bloke . my thought be with his family , his friend and his staff at this difficult time . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] Tony be not afraid to champion little - hear or unpopular cause , such as his campaigning on mesothelioma . one of his last act just this week be to join more than 100 member and peer and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) in call for urgent action on infected blood compensation . we have raise that issue many time in business question , but give Sir Brian Langstaff ' s statement , which be issue yesterday , it need raise again . I just hear question on it during Cabinet Office question . Sir Brian , the chair of the inquiry , have unfortunately delay publication of the final report until May . however , he also make it absolutely clear that his final report on the compensation scheme have already be publish — in April last year — and that that aspect of the inquiry and its finding will not change . give that , may I ask the Leader of the House once again to arrange for a statement from the Cabinet Office on establish the compensation scheme ? she and the Government can not keep hide behind the final report or complexity when the chair have make it crystal clear that his recommendation on the scheme be now publish . I must say that the answer I hear in Cabinet Office question just be not good enough . they feel like dodge , unfortunately , yet the will of the House be clear on this subject . this week I happen upon an article by the Leader of the House in the News Portsmouth , bemoan the fact that nothing seem to work anymore . it be remarkably similar to a big speech she make a year ago this week to the Institute for Government , make similar argument that ordinary people feel the system be rig against they . I agree with she and , after the Post Office scandal , I be sure many other do , but it leave I wonder what her government be do about it , and who she think be responsible . in a week when Avanti be brag about " free money " from the taxpayer while rail passenger suffer poor service , whose responsibility do she think that be ? in a week when the National Audit Office warn that the Government be waste ten of billion of pound on crumble infrastructure and badly run project , whose responsibility do she think that be ? the Leader of the House say that she want to focus on improve the quality , accountability and accessibility of healthcare , so in a week when it have be report that the NHS be spend a staggering £ 10 billion a year on agency staff , whose responsibility do she think that be ? whose responsibility be it that million of people be wait long for treatment and can not access a gp ? before she embarrassingly blame doctor or Welsh Labour for the problem of the English NHS , will she be honest about her Government ' s terrible record , and tell we what she be do to fix it ? the whole House will soon have an opportunity to pay tribute to our late colleague Tony Lloyd . People may not know , and the hon . Lady may not have have an opportunity to do that , so I thank she for her tribute today . let I place on record my deep sympathy for all who love he . the tribute pay to he already illustrate his gentle and kind nature , and the breadth and depth of his public service . as the hon . Lady testify , he be still do that right up until the end . I also thank the family of those hold hostage by Hamas for again come to Parliament this week to talk about their love one . we will all keep they at the forefront of our mind and do all we can to bring they home . I remind the House that Kfir Bibas turn one today in captivity . I also wish both his Majesty the King and her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales a speedy recovery . I thank the hon . Lady for again raise the important issue of infected blood . this session follow Cabinet Office question , in which a number of thing be place on record both by the Paymaster General and by member . I again remind the House that the compensation study be establish acknowledge the moral case for compensation , that the study should be concurrent to the inquiry , and that the inquiry and the study could make reference to each other . the reason for that be to ensure that we could arrive as swiftly as possible at a compensation package for all those affect by this appalling scandal . I do not disagree with any hon . member who believe that we should not have to wait . as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , say in the Cabinet Office question , the Government now have all the information to arrive at a compensation scheme in those inquiry , which be why the Paymaster General be make progress on exactly that . we be acutely aware of that moral imperative and what both the study and the inquiry have say on this matter so far . this House have also be clear in its desire to see that appalling scandal resolve quickly . I refer the hon . Lady to what the Paymaster General just say at the Dispatch Box with regard to legislation , but I be keep regularly inform of progress that he , the Treasury and other Departments be make on this matter . I expect more news on that important point in the come week . the hon . Lady refer to my article , and I thank she for the publicity . I argue that we should ensure that the consumer be king again . we have some challenging new monopoly — the natural monopoly of water company — and the online giant , and we need to ensure that the customer be king . that be what the Government have be do , through our legislation to improve competition and the work we be take forward with regulator on a whole raft of thing , from energy bill to other consumer issue . we can do because we have a plan . we have a plan on all the issue face the public . I expect praise from those on my own Benches , but I be much encouraged at the praise we hear yesterday from the Opposition Benches . one Labour Member , the hon . member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , be urge a focus on reduce the backlog and end hotel use . she say : " the Conservatives start this work by employ some temporary new officer and it start to work " . she go on : " the Tories have also start smash the gang through the work they be do in France . " — [ Official Report , 17 January 2023 ; Vol . 743 , c . 972 . ] she be right . on that priority , she could have add that crossing be down by 36 % this year , the albanian return scheme have see a 93 % fall in arrival , and we have dismantle , alongside the French , 82 organise criminal gang . we be make progress on that and other area . the health statistic announce show that the waiting list figure the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) mention be come down . these be not easy problem , particularly because of the recovery from the pandemic and the global situation on price and supply chain , but we have a plan and we be methodically work through it with zero assistance from the Labour party . on any issue and priority , we be stick to that plan . the reason we can do that and be not be blow off course be that we have some principle back it up . unlike the Labour party , we understand our duty to the people of this country , whether that be set up inquiry into infected blood and the Horizon scandal , or on the people ' s priority , which be also the Prime Minister ' s five top priority . we have never waver in our duty to the people of this country . we have never waver in our support to protect our country ' s border and protect the defence of the realm , unlike the hon . Lady ' s party which have six current shadow Cabinet member who vote against our continuous at - sea deterrent . we be work to strengthen our border and stop the boat . the Labour party have vote consistently against that legislation . we believe in support minimum service standard on vital public health service , include health and transport . Labour have oppose that . and we have take tough decision on help the economy , include control borrowing , which be why inflation be down by 60 % since October and the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast inflation fall to 2 . 8 % this year . labour ' s state policy on fiscal rule and spending mean that it will have to raise taxis if it want to stick to those fiscal rule , but it have not say what and when . on all those thing , we have a plan and it be work . we be go to stick to it , despite what the Labour party be do . labour have no plan , just a big fat bill for taxpayer . I call the Father of the House . I agree with a great deal of what the shadow Leader of the House , the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) say about Tony Lloyd , and I agree with much , if not all , that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House say on party politic , have a plan and deliver for the british people . next week , the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill continue its hearing . it have three session this week and transcript can be make available in the Vote Office . one issue that come up be the Government ' s continued failure to publish the minute of the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation from 2015 to 2016 . there be a consultation on a site for the propose memorial and learn centre . the consultant analyse the response and shortlist three . two day later the Government produce an alternative option , which be Victoria Tower Gardens . no one outside the Department have see the comparison between the merit of Victoria Tower Gardens and other possible site . no one have see the minute of discussion change the specification behind the back of the public . will my right hon . friend look to see the redaction make by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and why it be continue to instruct lawyer to oppose the freedom of information request , which be vital to the work of the Select Committee ? through she , may I recommend to the Select Committee ask for that information and make it public ? I presume that the Father of the House be ask for a debate on the matter as well . I know that this issue , which my hon . friend raise almost weekly , be of great concern to he , and that he want to ensure that the final outcome of the process be as good as it can be . I will again make sure that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear what he have say . the next session of question to the Secretary of State will be on 22 January , and my hon . friend may wish to raise the matter with he directly . this be the kind of information that should be in the public domain , so that people can make good decision , although on some matter — relate to security concern , for example — it may be sensible to redact . let I start by associate myself with all the remark about Tony Lloyd , whom I always find to be a very good and decent man . once again , I be indebted to the Leader of the House . her eccentric video last week , in which she joke about Tupperware and the Stone of Destiny , excite quite a response in Scotland . " why be she always on about Scotland ? " people ask . the Tories have give we a joke Minister for common sense , and now it look as if we have a Minister for clickbait . Scotland do seem to be just a big joke for the Leader of the House . the brief seem clear : to rubbish and insult scot every week during business question . of course she be not alone — this seem to be Tory policy nowadays — but she be add value now by produce full - page article in the paper about how awful Scotland be , along with a new clickbait video every week . all that effort , Mr Speaker ! although , give the very bad news for her party in this week ' s YouGov poll , perhaps these joke video be in fact audition . perhaps it be not so much " stand up and fight " as stand - up comedian . meanwhile , the record of the right hon . Lady ' s own Government be absolutely nothing to joke about , with destitution rise , doctor on strike cripple the English NHS , sea coast foul with pollution , inhumane treatment of asylum seeker and the breaching of international law , unresolved scandal pile up , and the crush impact of one of the bad Tory joke of all , Brexit . but before we be treat to — oh , I don ' t know , perhaps an attack on the Scottish Government and praise for the bullish action of the zombie Scotland Office — let I say this . surely Scotland can find a well use for — what be it now , over 12 million quid ? — than fund that ever - expand propaganda unit beaver away behind the scene , undermine the work of the Scottish Parliament and , of course , assist the Leader of the House with her script each week . close to this place , however , we have the Westminster joke of the other place , with its 860 or so ermine - clothe peer but one notable absentee . the right hon . Lady ' s Scottish Tory friend and colleague Baroness Mone be currently not a sit member , because she have take leave of absence by her own choice . it be be report in the Daily Record that Baroness Mone claim she be still a conservative as far as she be concern , because she never have the Whip remove . can the Leader of the House confirm that if Baroness Mone resume her position in the other place tomorrow , as I believe she be entitle to do , she can sit as a Conservative ? if not , exactly when be the Whip remove ? can the Leader of the House make time to answer that question before read out this week ' s hilarious clickbait script ? the hon . Lady should thank I . I have be give her publicity that money can not buy , and I think it be encouraging that we have generate such a following and such an interest in what go on in the Chamber during business question . let I make it clear to the hon . Lady that I be not talk Scotland down . I be talk the Scottish National party down , because it have be an unmitigated disaster for Scotland . the stoicism of the scottish people in deal with their inept Government deserve great credit . each week the hon . Lady talk about our record on delivery and invite I to make the comparison with the Scottish Government . I shall try to do so this week without mention the appalling record of the SNP Government , and just invite people to contrast our record with theirs . in the UK , we have the large rail infrastructure investment since victorian time . we have massive regeneration project across the UK . More than 1 , 000 mile of major road have be refurbish ; compare that with the a9 , please . we have 20 time as much offshore wind capacity as we have when we enter office . eighteen million household have full - fibre broadband . how be the Scottish Government ' s broadband rollout go ? then there be our hospital , mental health facility , 50 new surgical hub , new nuclear power station and record investment in home and flood defence , and in the come financial year our research and development spend will be about £ 20 billion . in 2010 , the strategic defence and security review greenlit a couple of aircraft carrier and , six year later , one be commission . that complex 65 , 000 - tonne warship be build through the carrier alliance , a wonderful example of the UK supply chain work together . after the same six - year timeframe , the SNP be still build a couple of ferry , which be £ 308 million over budget . for context , the overspend be three time the original budget , and I now understand that these pioneer green vessel will run on diesel . the SNP Government have be an unmitigated disaster for Scotland . they have be find out . they be incapable and incorrigible , and now they be in trouble . the hon . Lady ' s final question be a matter for the House of Lords , not the House of Commons . the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be meet in Strasbourg next week , which mean that member on the UK delegation will not be here for the tribute to Tony Lloyd . he be latterly an effective and diligent member of that Assembly , and I hope we will be able to pay our tribute in Strasbourg . we miss his charm and humanity . as a fellow member who first enter this House in 1983 , I have the privilege of know he for a very long time . will the Leader of the House initiate a debate on the effectiveness or otherwise of integrate care board ? the rationale for the board be to deal with the interaction between health and social care and to reduce the incidence of bed - block . last week we hear that no few than 353 hospital bed in Dorset be occupy by people who do not need they , at a cost of over £ 100 , 000 a day , let alone the opportunity cost of miss operation and so on . this be intolerable and show that the system of integrate care be not work . can we have a debate ? I thank my hon . friend for put on record his beautiful tribute to Tony Lloyd . it would be wonderful if such tribute could also be hear in Strasbourg . my hon . friend be right that it be vital that commissioner be hold to account . our NHS will not function properly without accountability and choice . the former Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , undertake work on patient outcome datum and the quality of commission in each board and across the UK , which will help to drive accountability . now that we have that datum , I be sure it will make for a very interesting debate . my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate , and he may also wish to raise this matter with the Secretary of State on 23 January . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I add my condolence to the family and friend of Tony Lloyd . last night , in the local I frequent in Kennington , Tony be remember with great fondness by the regular . the manager , who be also a friend of mine , ask I to make it know that he really respect , love and miss Tony Lloyd . he will be miss by all in the House . he be probably the nice Manchester United supporter I have ever come across . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business for next week and the Backbench Business debate for Thursday . there will also be a Select Committee statement from the Procedure Committee on Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords . if we be allocate time on Thursday 1 February , we have line up two debate , one on miner and mining community , and one on freedom and democracy in Iran . we be approach the tabling of supplementary estimate , and the Backbench Business Committee will soon publish information on the application process for a day of debate in the Chamber . the Committee be keen to receive application for Westminster Hall debate , particularly for Thursdays . I apologise to the Leader of the House , because last week I raise the subject of the Tyne bridge , which I raise again at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , but it be a matter of urgency and I will quickly explain why . the Tyne bridge and its surround building be the furth inland nesting place for kittiwake . if we do not get the work start before the kittiwake return from their wintering , it will become increasingly difficult because it will mean disturb kittiwake nest . we do not want to do that , so we want to get on with the work . there be urgency from an environmental perspective , but also from a financial perspective . the work really need to be start as soon as possible . I thank the Leader of the House for write to the Department for Transport on my behalf last week , but I would like she to understand the urgency of why we need to do that . I apologise , Mr Speaker , that I miss next week ' s business question , as I will be on Select Committee business . priority , of course . I thank the hon . gentleman for his very helpful advert to all member for forthcoming debate . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have also hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the bridge and , again , I will ask the Department for Transport to lean in . may I add my tribute to Tony Lloyd ? he be a good man , who never underestimate or undervalue the extreme power of kindness . the Leader of the House will have see last month ' s judgment in the case of the Duke of Sussex v . Mirror Group Newspapers Ltd , which record that witness for MGN accept that , in 2007 , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be mislead by the then executive at the Mirror try to conceal the illegal and unlawful activity that be go on . the individual accuse of mislead the Committee die in 2022 . do the Leader of the House agree that any attempt to mislead committee be unacceptable , but especially those by medium organisation , from which the public and Parliament expect honesty and integrity ? will she commit to keep the important issue of Select Committee power under review , so that committee such as mine can continue to operate without obstruction ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . the power and privilege of this House be necessary to enable Parliament to function freely and fully , and it be vital that Select Committees be able to obtain full and accurate evidence from witness as part of their inquiry . that be critical . the power available to this House and Select Committees have be under continual review , and they have be investigate numerous time in the past decade . it be , of course , very frustrating when witness do not co - operate with Select Committees , and the Government support this House in assert its power to ensure that it can scrutinise effectively . may I say how sad we on the liberal Democrat Benches be that Tony Lloyd have pass away ? I be a councillor in Rochdale when Tony become the first police and crime commissioner in Greater Manchester . he be such a decent man , and a sincere politician and public servant . warm and comfortable home be crucial to reach net zero and reduce energy bill . People should be encourage to invest in energy - save measure , but a complicated certification landscape mean that it be difficult to find qualified and reliable installer . a review of this issue have be recommend by the Competition and Markets Authority and support by which ? can we please have a debate in Government time on consumer protection in the green heating and insulation sector ? I thank the hon . Lady for her very important question . the Competition and Markets Authority be do important work in a number of area , and that be one of they . we have have announcement on petrol retail , for example , in the last week . I shall certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern about that particular area . Southport pier be a significant feature of our town ' s life for over 163 year until it be close by Sefton Council in December 2022 . give the significance of pier to many town around the country , particularly because of the economic impact that they can have , will my right hon . friend agree to have a debate on how can they be restore and maintain for future generation ? the Government recognise the importance of these often much - love heritage asset . that be why part of the coastal community fund be there to renovate heritage building , particularly pier and lido , and we have do that . we have renovate an enormous number of those type of structure across the UK . even sad than the pier closing be the fact that it receive £ 2 million through the coastal community fund and only a few year ago undergo a £ 2 . 7 million enhancement . there be question about the use of that public money and what my hon . friend ' s local authority be do . I want to alert the Leader of the House to action by a private security firm on the Wynyard estate in my constituency to stop legitimate political campaigning . there be thousand of home on the estate , but Chris McDonald , who I hope will succeed I as the Labour MP for Stockton North , be order to leave the area by guard . he be tell that they do not allow cold caller , and that be how they categorise labour activist . the Leader of the House will recognise that as anti - democratic , deny thousand of people the right to hear from those who seek to represent they . I would be oblige if she could use her office to investigate the silencing of politician , and make it clear that people of whatever political colour should not be stop carry out perfectly legal activity . I will certainly ensure that the Cabinet Office have hear about that case . I think there be sometimes a misunderstanding about the function of local councillor and member of Parliament when they go door to door , try to identify issue . there be certain area in local authority , particularly those with a high volume of quite vulnerable people , where cold calling zone be in place . that be perfectly proper . I will certainly raise the matter with Ministers , but I also encourage member to address such issue directly and locally . often these thing be misunderstanding . if people say what their business be in a particular area , hopefully such incident will not arise , but I will ensure that minister have hear the hon . Gentleman . may I add my word of condolence to the family of Tony Lloyd ? I serve with he on the International Trade Committee . he always make a valuable contribution and will be sadly miss . the RAC recently publish a report call on the Government to commission an independent inquiry into headlight glare . member will be aware that headlight on vehicle be now much bright , with led light . in my constituency , the local paper the Grimsby Telegraph have carry a report on the issue , which be clearly of concern to many of my constituent . may we have a statement from a Transport Minister about whether the Government intend to commission such a review ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . I know it be of concern to many people , which be why the RAC have highlight it . he will know that in the current provision for vehicle headlamp there be a maximum and minimum light intensity , and specification for the light pattern and the position of the light on the vehicle . this be a highly regulated area . my hon . friend can raise the matter directly with the Secretary of State on 8 February , but I will ensure that he be aware of the survey and what the RAC have say . I thank my hon . friend for his campaign . I will be here to pay tribute to my friend Tony Lloyd at the appropriate time . the Hillsborough inquiry , the Post Office Horizon scandal , Windrush , contaminate blood , and lgbtq veteran have all be the subject of report , and they be all example of how the state treat working - class people when it should be there to support they . victim of the last three of those scandal — Windrush , contaminate blood and veteran — be still wait for their compensation to be sort out and for the outcome of the report to be enact . can we have some form of cross - party arrangement whereby we can all come to an agreement on how we should respond to the report and treat those people with the dignity to which they be entitle ? the Government be just obfuscate and kick the can down the road . we know that we be at the fag end of the Government , but these thing need deal with now . why can we not have some co - operation to bring matter to a conclusion for those people ? in last week ' s session , I speak about many of the inquiry and issue that the hon . Gentleman raise . I be proud of this Government ' s record in bring forward , for the first time in some instance , inquiry into such matter and in make public apology on behalf of the state about some of those issue . I will not repeat what I say early about the legislation and progress on infected blood , but I will repeat the statement with which I end my evidence to the infected blood inquiry about why the inquiry be so important , not just to a comparatively small group who have be affect or infect , but to all of we , because it could have be any one of we — anyone in the country could have be affect . how the state respond to such matter be incredibly important and we all want to see justice do . last week , I write to the Cabinet Office about how we could learn lesson from the series of inquiry we have set up . I know that the Paymaster General be in regular touch with the all - party group that be primarily concerned with the issue the hon . Gentleman raise , and with the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . in addition , many people in the House and other stakeholder be engage in consultation and provide their input . we be determined to get these long - run injustice resolve ; that have be our visible track record . when I be Paymaster General , I admit that there be a moral obligation on infected blood and I set up the compensation study . we will deliver on it with , I hope , the support of Opposition Members . I send my condolence to the family and friend of Tony Lloyd . I do not know he well personally , but I know he well within this place . he be not just well respected but well like , which be quite hard for a politician of such tenure . he be also know to be very kind , and the immeasurable difference he make to this place will last for generation . I recently speak to a constituent who be concern about fraudster knock on door , dress as if they work for a commercial business , with the intention to scam usually vulnerable resident . will my right hon . friend advise on how that issue can be address to ensure that resident feel safe when open the door to people who be supposedly sell to they ? may I start by say how good it be to see my hon . friend in his place again , fit and well ? early we hear from an Opposition Member about cold - call zone and measure that be put in place to protect area with a high volume of vulnerable people , which be one way to address the problem that my hon . friend raise . that be within the gift of local authority and may be something his local resident wish to see . I will also ask the relevant Department on his behalf whether there be any good practice that can be pass to my hon . friend ' s office . time and again , the Government have ignore warning about the crisis brewing in adult social care , child ' s service and homelessness that , combine with rise cost , be push local council finance over the brink . the result be that from lunch club to library , and from art group to youth centre to support bus service , community be lose the thing that bring people together and support their life . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact that this loss of social infrastructure be have on community , and particularly on the old , the young , the sick , the disabled and those who already face extreme poverty ? the hon . Lady will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way , but I also draw her attention to the local government finance settlement and the offer from the Secretary of State and his Ministers to discuss that with member . I urge she to take he up on that offer if she so desire . I also point to the work and focus across many Government Departments on the issue that she raise . I be think in particular of the Department of Health and Social Care and the work that the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , have be undertake with regard to homelessness . last week , I meet my constituent , Kym Ledgar , a former sub - postmistress and former representative of the National Federation of SubPostmasters . I be already appal but be now incense by the story that the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal have to tell . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to complete the process of exoneration and resolve outstanding compensation claim as soon as possible , but those responsible need to be hold accountable . do my right hon . friend agree that the Government should learn from victim of this appalling miscarriage of justice ? will she find parliamentary time to debate the introduction of a whistleblow Bill to protect brave citizen who speak out against corporate wrongdoing in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for her work on that matter . her question come in a week when we have also see report about previous whistleblower on other issue , such as Maggie Oliver and her work on groom gang , at tremendous personal cost to herself , lose her career and livelihood in the process . we owe those individual a huge debt of gratitude , and I will certainly make sure that the Cabinet Office have hear what my hon . friend have say . as I mention , I write last week to the Cabinet Office ask it to reflect on what it could learn from Horizon and from other inquiry that we have establish . my hon . friend may wish to raise the matter directly at the Business and Trade question on 25 January . there be no transport Bill in the King ' s Speech and therefore no opportunity to update legislation relate to e - scooter and e - bike , and , obviously , we have see a massive increase in their use . may we have an opportunity , on behalf of constituent who regularly raise with I the antisocial use of e - bike and e - scooter , to question Ministers on what more they can do to tackle this ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question ; I know this be an issue of concern to many member across the House . she will know how to apply for a debate , but I will also make sure that the Secretaries of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and for Transport have hear what she say . the House will know that I have repeatedly raise my concern about image and performance - enhance drug . it be estimate that between half a million and a million people be use these drug , so may I pay tribute to the sport Minister , who have agree to join a roundtable discussion with I next week that will bring together academic , clinician , group and the police to discuss the matter far ? we need more datum . one of the big problem be that it be a cross - departmental issue , so would the Deputy Speaker mind write to the Home Office and the Department of Health and Social Care , as well as the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , so that this issue get the attention that it deserve ? I be sure that Mr Deputy Speaker would mind write to those Departments , but I do not at all . I thank my hon . friend for his really important campaign in this policy area , which do not have a lot of focus prior to his take it up . I be pleased to hear what the sport Minister be do and I will certainly make sure that , via he , this will be co - ordinate across Government . on 12 April , Barclays will close its door in the county town of Bridgend , leave 145 , 000 constituent in my constituency and in the constituency of Bridgend with one few bank . in my own constituency , there be now one bank leave . in Bridgend , old people and charity be find it increasingly difficult to get access to cash . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate in which a Minister come to the House and set out what the Government will do to stop this desert of banking service , so that we can ensure that people have access to cash and that our hard - press charity sector be able to bank and have support from town right across the United Kingdom ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he will know that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have a number of programme to ensure that vital service , such as those he outline , be co - ordinate locally and can still be access . he be right that for the charity sector in particular , but also for business and individual , these be necessary service that people should have access to . he will know that just because brick and mortar may be go , those service can be continue in other way , as happen in many other place across the UK . I will ensure that someone from the Department get in touch with his office , share the good practice that be go on and give some advice on how he can ensure that those service be available to his constituent . in Tuesday ' s 90 - minute Westminster Hall debate on trend in excess death , Back - Bench contribution be limit to three minute each . give the huge and grow public interest in , and concern about , excess death , and give the grow awareness across this House , may we now have a debate in Government time on excess death ? also , will the Government instruct the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency to release anonymise the dose , date and death datum that it hold , which it have already disclose to AstraZeneca , Pfizer and Moderna — public datum that the public have no right to , and datum that would very quickly verify whether those experimental covid - 19 vaccine be , in fact , safe and effective ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the fact that he have hold a debate in this place and that it be well attend show that there be great scrutiny of and interest in these matter . he will know that he have other option for apply for a debate . he be sit next to the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , and I be sure that some of the thing he say in his question would be consider favourably — mean that his application would be consider favourably . I would encourage he to apply for a debate . he know that he can secure a debate on that subject , because he have just recently do so . I will also just emphasise that there be no evidence link excess death to the covid - 19 vaccine . analysis from the Office for National Statistics , publish in August last year , show that people who have have a covid - 19 vaccine have a low mortality rate than those who have not be vaccinate . the issue of excess death be important to scrutinise , and clearly the covid inquiry be look at those issue too , but we need to be careful in our messaging to ensure that — it be individual ’ choice — people have the fact about vaccine of all kind . Barnsley East have miss out on all levelling - up funding . the local council have put in an excellent bid to support and develop Elsecar Heritage Centre , but in the late round of announcement we be tell that it would be decide separately from the national funding round as a culture and heritage bid , yet DLUHC make the decision . will the Leader of the House inform we when the Government will make this announcement ? I wish the hon . Lady and her colleague in her constituency good luck with the bid . she will know that if a bid have not be score to be particularly good in a round of funding , official from that Department will quite often work with the local authority and other stakeholder to improve the bid and ensure that it be robust — I be not say that that be the case for the hon . Lady , but it be good that she be still in the process . I will do all I can to assist she in ensure that the bid be in good shape . I shall ask the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to give she an update on timing , as the next oral question for that Department have not yet be give a date . as have be amply demonstrate this week , the highland and island have the cold climate in the UK . we have the high level of fuel poverty and pay the high bill , despite generate six time the electricity that we use . energy policy be entirely reserve to the Westminster Government . may we have a debate in Government time on establish a highlands energy rebate , along the line of what the Chancellor have propose for those in new electricity - generate equipment area for those live among the exist electricity - generate equipment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I shall certainly ensure that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have hear his suggestion and , give that the next oral question have not yet be give a date , ask the Department to respond to he . give that there be a debate later today on HS2 compensation , and that Skelmersdale in my constituency have repeatedly be deny any support for a train station — infamously , it still have none — will the Leader of the House share her thought on the Department for Transport ' s Network North advert that boast of reroute £ 235 million of hs2 fund from the north to fix pothole in London ? I be not sure I have see that government advertisement , so I can not comment on it . however , if that be a matter of concern to the hon . Lady ' s constituent with regard to HS2 compensation , I encourage she to attend the debate this afternoon . my constituent be one of six british Sikhs on an " enemy of the state " hit list of 20 , broadcast on certain section of the indian medium . we have see shocking revelation by the canadian Prime Minister of the assassination of a Sikh activist and an indictment submit in a United States court of a foiled alleged plot to assassinate a Sikh activist there , and the family of a Birmingham Sikh activist , who have their own suspicion , be call for an inquiry into his death . all three be on that hit list . give that many Sikhs have be hand " threat to life " notice by UK police , do the Leader of the House agree that , whether or not we agree with someone ' s view , everyone have the right to freedom of expression in our democracy without the threat of violence ? can she outline what step the Government be take to ensure the safety and security of british Sikhs ? I be sorry to hear about the situation of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . he will know that the Home Office and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office take those matter very seriously and that , where there be issue with foreign government , the Foreign Secretary and his Ministers will raise they directly in bilateral meeting . the Home Office , work often with local authority , will put in place measure to protect people who have have such threat . we have sadly see interference in some case from a number of state actor from China and from Iran in particular , as well as the case to which he refer . may I add my condolence to Tony Lloyd ' s family ? he be a dear friend and colleague , and he be particularly kind to I when I be first elect in a by - election , 13 year ago . my constituent ' s partner have be await evacuation from Gaza for month now . her partner have evidence that other in exactly the same circumstance as he be be prioritise over he . although my office and I have be in almost daily contact with not only the Foreign Office — I thank Lord Ahmad for his support — but the israeli and egyptian embassy , I would be grateful if the Leader of the House could liaise with the Foreign Office and identify exactly when my constituent ' s partner can be bring home . I be sorry to hear about the situation with the hon . Lady ' s constituent , and I thank my noble friend Lord Ahmad for the work he be do . I know he be focus on the protection of british national , ensure that people can be return to the UK and offer they all assistance . I will certainly ensure that minister hear what the hon . Lady have say today . as with case regard hostage , I have help facilitate some service be step up for member of Parliament . I think I be perhaps not able to assist she in quite the way she wish I to , but I will ensure that the Foreign Office have hear what she have say and , although I know that she be in contact with they already , I will raise her concern with fcdo official to see whether anything far can be do . I know she appreciate that these be very difficult circumstance . the House will recall that on 2 January the Prime Minister post on x : " I say that this government would clear the backlog of asylum decision by the end of 2023 . that ' s exactly what we ' ve do . " in fact , it be pretty soon apparent that they have do nothing of the sort , with more than 4 , 500 legacy application still await a decision . accordingly , I take the matter to the UK Statistics Authority to seek its guidance , and this morning I receive this reply from its chair , Sir Robert Chote : " the average member of the public be likely to interpret a claim to have ' clear a backlog ' — especially when present without context on social medium — as mean that it have be eliminate entirely " . he go on : " this episode may affect public trust when the Government set target and announce whether they have be meet in the other policy domain . " will the Leader of the House make time for the Prime Minister or the Home Secretary to come to the House and explain why , yet again , they have have their knuckle rap for their use of statistic ? it be a good thing in our democracy that we do not mark our own homework . we have independent body that review statistic . we also have body that look at how statistic be present , so that they be present in the clear possible way to member of the public . the right hon . Gentleman will know that massive progress have be make in that area . off the top of my head — he will forgive I — the processing of application in the Home Office have increase by 250 % . it be now work through those application at pace . however , I will certainly ensure that the Home Office hear what he have say , as its question time have not yet be table . I raise this issue last week . the Leader of the House may be aware of the open letter sign by actor , musician and campaigner , include Adrian Lester , Annie Lennox , Martin Forde KC and Baroness Doreen Lawrence , urge the Government to go fast on the Windrush compensation scheme . More than 40 people have die while await compensation . may we have a debate in Government time to consider take Windrush compensation out of the Home Office and into an independent body , so that we get a speedy resolution for the many people still wait ? I thank the hon . Lady for her diligence in raise this issue again . she will know that last week I write on her behalf to the Department , as well as to the Cabinet Office , to see what more they could do to learn from this and other matter . I will do so again . will the Leader of the House have another go at improve write ministerial answer ? I recently ask the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities a very simple question about what meeting Ministers have have with Welsh and scottish counterpart on the implementation of the new ombudsman scheme . the answer from the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety be : " minister and official have regular engagement with the devolved administration on a range of issue . " that pass the Lloyd George test : it be short , accurate and tell I absolutely nothing I do not know already . in this day and age , can we not at least have a culture among minister of answer perfectly straightforward and factual question in a perfectly straightforward and factual way , and will she help to facilitate that , please ? the hon . Gentleman will know that a great deal of time and effort be take in the draft department in Government Departments . my noble Friend Lord True and I run regular training session , as do the official in my office . we be always on the lookout for good and bad practice so that we can ensure that people know what Members of Parliament need , and we inform those individual of what be helpful to we in deal with casework and in which format we might need information . I be always open to example of good and bad practice be pass to my office , and I will certainly raise it with the relevant Department . twice in question today , compensation scheme have be raise , and I be hearten that the Leader of the House herself champion this issue as Paymaster General and have be in contact with the Cabinet Office . however , could she help I and my constituent who be in the secret service ? he be dismiss because of his sexuality alone , and be one of a group of people who can not talk about the matter publicly . despite my hammering on door in Whitehall , we be make very little progress . as well as the gay veteran ' scheme and other compensation scheme , would the Leader of the House take up this issue for people who serve their country well and be dismiss simply because they be gay or lesbian ? it be not fair , it be not right , and it need redress . the hon . Lady raise a very important point . quite often , because of the nature of someone ' s service , they be not able to participate in particular inquiry or report that be produce on historic wrong - doing and miscarriage of justice . clearly , the agency have evolve over the year , and the head of those agency be now public figure , so I will certainly write to the Cabinet Office and ask it to consider this matter , copy in both the Home Office and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , which be primarily the sponsor Departments for those agency . Tony Lloyd be shadow Secretary of State for Northern Ireland when I have my first front - Bench role as SNP spokesperson for Northern Ireland . he be extremely welcoming , collegiate and helpful , for which I will be forever grateful . I offer my sincere condolence to his friend and family . I receive a letter on Monday from the Minister for Legal Migration state that the Home Office ' s use of the Muthu Erskine Bridge hotel , which be currently home to 114 asylum seeker , would cease by the end of April . the problem be , that be nearly a week after the news have become public , and after I have already have a meeting with Mears to discuss wind - down arrangement — all this after no real engagement , consultation or even basic communication with the local community at the outset , leave it to local representative like I to try to answer question I have no answer to , with the abuse and threat to I and my staff that go along with it . can we have a debate on Home Office communication with member of this place and , when necessary , directly with member of the public ? I be sorry to hear about that situation , and I will raise it with the Home Office . from my own experience , the Home Secretary ' s parliamentary private Secretary have be very diligent in make sure that member on all side of this House be keep inform about thing that be go on in their constituency , so I be sure that if there have be a delay in send a letter to the hon . Gentleman , it will have be an error . however , I will make sure the Minister and the Department have hear his point . I associate myself with the comment that have be make about my friend and predecessor as Member for Stretford , Sir Tony Lloyd . I will reserve my comment for the appropriate time in the forthcoming week , but in light of the comment make by the shadow Leader of the House , I want to express my solidarity with she in have experience unfavourable comparison with Tony . she be more fortunate than I be ; she have those comparison for only the first couple of year , but I continue to experience they some 27 year after he cease to represent Stretford . my constituent Colin be a retired senior police officer await pension adjustment under the McCloud remedy . he and many other have make important life decision on the basis of a promise make by XPS , the Government ' s pension administrator for the scheme , to remediate all retiree by July this year . without notification — with a website update alone — XPS have now push that date back to November this year . Colin and thousand of other have make life - change decision on the back of information previously provide , and year ' worth of hard - earn pension be still outstanding , yet I understand that , to date , not a single retiree have be remediate , or one letter be send to any recipient . could we have a statement from the Policing Minister on the progress that XPS be make on the remediation of affected police pension , and the step the Government be take to assure themselves that the legal deadline for adjust those pension will be meet ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as the date of the next Home Office question have not be table , I will write to and make sure the relevant Minister have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s request . I would also like to put on record my sadness at the loss of our dear friend and colleague Sir Tony Lloyd . as the shadow Leader of the House say , he be a thoroughly decent bloke . he be kind and a great conversationalist over a pint , especially when we be talk about the loss of Manchester United these day , about which we share our depression . more importantly , this place and politic be much poor without he . this week , I meet the Environment Agency on behalf of concerned resident regard the odour come from the Pilsworth South landfill site in my constituency . the Environment Agency serve an important function for all our constituency , particularly on issue such as flooding , balance the need of people and the environment . could we have a debate in Government time on the appropriate level of funding for the Environment Agency to ensure that it have enough tooth to monitor and potentially punish operator that breach licence ? I be sorry to hear about that ongoing issue in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he will know that that be the purpose of the Environment Agency . it have quite considerable investigatory power and , with other body , the ability to sanction particular people . the next question to the relevant Department be on 1 February , and the hon . Gentleman may wish to raise that issue then . hon . member who visit Iraqi Kurdistan with the all - party parliamentary group on the Kurdistan region in Iraq know that it be a firm ally against extremism , and they will be disgusted that the iranian regime have target the capital , Irbil , with missile , kill a prominent businessman , his baby daughter and other in a vile and illegal act . may we have a debate in Government time on how the Government can well assist our ally and support Iraq ' s complaint at the United Nations about iranian aggression ? could the Leader of the House prompt the Foreign Secretary to discuss the issue with the kurdish Prime Minister in Davos ? I will certainly make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear what the hon . Lady have say . she will know that the next Foreign Office question be on 30 January , and she may also wish to raise it then . I thank she for shine a spotlight on that particularly brutal attack . again , it be highly consistent with the iranian regime ' s standard operating procedure in many place around the world . the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) have recently be try to sell de - mining equipment to the People ' s Republic of China , include ground - penetrate radar capability . the sale be block by the Government , but it bring into view a proposal make this time last year by the four Committees that make up the Committees on Arms Export control to make it a dedicated Select Committee of the House . this proposal be support by the Chairs of the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee , both Conservative mp . if they support make the Committee a dedicated Select Committee of this House , why do the Leader of the House not do so ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for advertising that the system the Government have put in place to ensure that sale that should not be take place be block be alive and well and work . sit next to I on the Front Bench be the Security Minister , who have stand up new infrastructure in Whitehall to ensure that we have full situational awareness of particular sale or takeover that might be against the public interest . that have come on leap and bound in recent year , and I thank the hon . gentleman for the endorsement and advert for that . there be many issue to be consider when new Select Committees be stand up . they be ultimately a matter for the House , but I can tell the hon . gentleman from my experience of serve on the Committees on Arms Export Controls — for those who do not know , it do not decide on arm export ; it scrutinise the decision take — that the input and expertise from the four Select Committees of this House on live issue and the geopolitical situation that need to be consider when scrutinise such decision be incredibly valuable . ultimately , however , these thing be a matter for the House . it be now over two year since the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) produce her fan - lead review of football , and the Government have accept most of the recommendation . in that time , several community have face lose their local club , and the long we wait , the more that will happen . when will we finally see the football governance Bill , or be we go to have to wait for a Labour Government to take action on this issue ? give that the Labour Government do not take action on this issue , the hon . Gentleman should not hold out for that prospect . we have take the decision to focus on this matter . we set up the football governance review , which the former Sports Minister my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) take forward , and we be bring forward legislation . I be expect that legislation to come to the House very soon and I thank member from all side of the House and supporter of all club for all their input into the review and the legislation that have come from it . I want to put on record that , like other , I miss our friend and colleague Tony Lloyd so much . he be a public servant of the high order and a socialist of wit , wisdom , integrity and public service , and we will miss he . People out there in Leeds and across the country be really struggle , through no fault of their own , to get by . this government say they be proud of their record on living standard despite the reality out there be very different . if the Government be so confident , will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time on living standard after 14 year of Conservative Government ? can we have it as soon as possible , before the general election that we need very quickly so that people out there can give their verdict ? the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply for a debate , and if he do so I be sure it would be very well attend , certainly by member on the Government Benches . he will know that the cost of live package we put in place recently , because of what we have go through with the pandemic and the shock to fuel price particularly , in part because of the war in Ukraine , be now worth over £ 104 billion . I be very proud of our record and not just because of the support that we have give directly ; I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the uplift in housing allowance , other benefit , and the triple lock for pension that be announce in the autumn statement , and also to what we have do to double people ' s personal tax allowance . we believe that the good way we can support people , as well as provide a strong welfare system and that target support , be by ensure that more people get into work and be able to have more high - value job . that be sit behind our trade deal ; the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership in particular will increase wage in this country in particular sector . it be also fundamental that we get people into work . we have manage to get an additional 4 million people into work ; 2 million be woman and 1 million be disabled people who would not have have the dignity of a pay packet have we not bring through welfare reform . we have lift many people out of poverty , include 500 , 000 child . I join in the early tribute to Tony Lloyd , who be a sincere , decent and kind man , and a model to we all in these harden time . independence be a viable option for Wales ' s future and the status quo be not . those be two of the most striking conclusion of the independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales lead by former Archbishop Rowan Williams and Professor Laura McAllister whose report be publish today . whatever the view across the House and of the Leader of the House , any sensible UK Government with sincere concern for the governance of my country would engage with the change that be already afoot . will the Leader of the House demonstrate that sincere concern by arrange a full - scale debate on the commission ' s report , perhaps around the time of St David ' s day on 1 March ? I fully understand the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in this matter . we on the conservative Benches will always defend the Union of the United Kingdom . many service be devolve , and it pain I to see many service run very badly by the Welsh Government , to the detriment of Welsh citizen , as I know he will appreciate . waiting list be four time what they be in England , to give just one example . we will always defend the Union , and if the hon . Gentleman apply for a debate , I be sure many on my side will turn up and do precisely that . it be a sad and sorry state that the most vibrant separatist party in the UK now be not the Scottish National party , but the Labour party . last week , in response to my comment , the Leader of the House say that people in England pay low tax than people in Scotland , even though 55 % of people in Scotland pay less tax than people in England , include council tax . she add that her Government deliver a balanced budget , even though they have never do so since they come to power . the Scottish Government must , by law , deliver a balanced budget every year . those be matter not of opinion but of fact , and I be sure she have no intention of mislead the House . will she make a statement to correct the record ? I would be happy to correct the record now . a nurse earn £ 34 , 000 would pay £ 4 , 348 in Scotland , compare with £ 4 , 286 in England . a doctor earn £ 50 , 000 would pay £ 9 , 038 in Scotland , compare with £ 7 , 486 in England . a headteacher would pay £ 17 , 436 in Scotland , compare with £ 15 , 430 in England . the hon . Lady need to go and check the fact before she come back next week . that be before I even start talk about the money that the UK Government have give the Scottish Government for business in Scotland , which the SNP be hang on to instead . I thank the Leader of the House for this opportunity to ask some question on freedom of religion and belief and about persecution across the world . one example just in the past week be the Baha ' I farmer who have suffer land seizure by the iranian Government . that be another indication of the iranian Government intensify religious persecution against the Baha ' I . secondly , there have be recent action against Christians in Sudan . on 12 January , the evangelical presbyterian church in Wad Madani , Al Jazirah state be burn down . the sudanese army have be accuse civilian of spy for the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group base on ethnic ground , lead to arrest , torture and killing . will the Leader of the House join I and other in denounce these arbitrary action against Christians in Sudan and against the Baha ' I in Iran ? I thank the hon . gentleman for what he do every week to draw a spotlight on some appalling situation that do not necessarily get a lot of medium attention . these have be theme this week . many member have speak in these business question , but also throughout the week , about the conduct of the iranian regime . I thank he again for shine a spotlight on the ongoing situation in Sudan . as he know I always do , I will make sure that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have hear his concern . I thank the Leader of the House for respond to question for more than an hour . may I say that Sir Tony Lloyd , a north - west MP — I call he Mr North - West — be care , honest , decent and a gentleman ? everybody get on with he . he work with everybody . he be a fantastic man . I be on the Council of Europe with he . he be a true internationalist . we work hard together . we have the odd pint together in Strasbourg . politic and Parliament be the poor for his passing . Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism I beg to move , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . I be grateful to the House for consider this draft order , which will finally see Hizb ut - Tahrir proscribe . the event of 7 October will be permanently ingrain on our mind . what Hamas do that day be barbaric . it be evil . who can erase the image that we see of mother cry over their blood - soak bed with their child miss , of teenager gun down at a festival of peace , or of woman abduct , rape and slaughter ? who among we could fail to be appal by such depravity or to still feel the pain of those whose loved one be hostage ? who could stay silent in the face of the bad pogrom against Jews on any day since the holocaust ? in the aftermath of 7 October , community across the United Kingdom come together to condemn these vile act and to stand with british Jews in their hour of grief . not everyone , however , react with sorrow . instead of horror , Hizb ut - Tahrir respond to the murder of civilian with elation . instead of condemnation , it lavish Hamas with praise . I want to make something very clear : I be a champion of freedom of speech , and I have no issue with people say thing that I regard as insensitive , uninformed or wrong , but this be different . free speech include neither the promotion of terrorism nor the celebration of terrorist act . it be not acceptable to describe Hamas as the " hero " of Palestine or the event of 7 October as a " long - await victory " . it be not acceptable to refer to the killing of jewish tourist by an egyptian police officer as " a simple example of what should be do towards the Jews " . it be not acceptable to call for so - call muslim army to rise up and carry out similar act . Hizb ut - Tahrir have antisemitism at its very core . it reject democracy and engage in vile homophobia . as an organisation , it do not just reject british value ; it seek to undermine they . we will not let group such as Hizb ut - Tahrir abuse our freedom . we will never tolerate the promotion or encouragement of terrorism . we have zero tolerance for antisemitism . Hizb ut - Tahrir must be proscribe . before I come to discuss the specific of the order , I will set out some background on the proscription power . currently , 79 terrorist organisation be proscribe under the Terrorism Act 2000 . for an organisation to be proscribe , the Government must believe that it be concern in terrorism as set out in section 3 of the Act . if the statutory test be meet , the Home Secretary must consider the proportionality of proscription and decide whether to exercise their discretion . Proscription be a powerful tool with severe penalty , criminalise membership and invitation of support for organisation . it also support other disruptive activity include immigration disruption and terrorist financing order . in short , the resource of a proscribe organisation be terrorist property and therefore liable to be seize . a decision to proscribe be take only after great care and consideration , give its wide - range impact . it must be approve by both Houses . part 2 of the 2000 Act contain the proscription offence in section 11 to 13 . an organisation be proscribe if it be list in schedule 2 to the Act . article 2 of the order will add Hizb ut - Tahrir to the list in schedule 2 as a new entry . we have carefully consider all the evidence . Hizb ut - Tahrir be concern in terrorism . with the House ' s consent , it will be proscribe , include all regional branch such as Hizb ut - Tahrir Britain . although I be unable to comment on specific intelligence , I can provide the House with a summary of the group ' s activity . Hizb ut - Tahrir be an international political organisation with a footprint in at least 32 country , include the United Kingdom , the United States , Canada and Australia . its long - term goal be to establish an expansionist caliphate rule under islamic law , with no fixed border , seek new territory to occupy in the name of jihad . that be its stated aim . Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s headquarters and central medium office be in Beirut , and its ideology and strategy be co - ordinated centrally . the british branch , Hizb ut - Tahrir Britain , be establish in 1986 . it be afford autonomy to operate in its local environment , but it be important to emphasise that it be part of a coherent international movement , and recognise the leadership of Hizb ut - Tahrir . the decision to proscribe therefore relate to Hizb ut - Tahrir , include all its regional branch . any distinction between they be artificial . there be evidence that Hizb ut - Tahrir be concern in terrorism . its central medium office and several of its middle eastern branch have celebrate and praise the barbaric terrorist attack on Israel and other nation ' citizen carry out by Hamas , which , as member will be aware , be already a proscribe organisation . be the Minister aware that Zeyno Baran of the Hudson Institute have observe that the british chapter of Hizb ut - Tahrir be the " nerve centre " of the international movement ? as be so often the case when deal with terror organisation , the responsibility to protect our own citizen extend to citizen in other country as well . the right hon . member be absolutely right that the unity of this organisation mean that one branch can not be separate from another . the UK branch be important when take down the network around the world . that be why , as I will come to , this action be support not just here but around the world . as I mention early , recent activity include an article attribute to Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s egyptian branch , which refer to the killing of jewish tourist by an egyptian police officer as " a simple example of what should be do towards the Jews " . the british branch be supportive of — and indeed , subservient to — its global leadership and policy position . it demonstrate a hatred not just of Israel but of all Jews . its promotion and encouragement of terrorism be inspire by an abhorrent antisemitic ideology . Hizb ut - Tahrir have frequently refer to Hamas as the hero of Palestine . Hamas be not hero . those who perpetrate the attack on 7 October be monster . Hizb ut - Tahrir Britain publish an article on its website that describe the 7 October attack as a long - await victory that " ignite a wave of joy and elation amongst Muslims globally " . it be the Government ' s view that the content include in that article and other like it betray Hizb ut - Tahrir and Hizb ut - Tahrir Britain ' s true ideology and belief . Hizb ut - Tahrir have regularly engage in homophobic and antisemitic discourse . it reject democracy , and its aim bear similarity to those of terrorist group , include Daesh , which be already proscribe . internationally , Hizb ut - Tahrir play the mood music to which other terrorist dance . this proscription will serve as a reminder that the United Kingdom do not and will never tolerate the promotion or encouragement of terrorism . it will send the message that promote or encourage Hamas ' s sicken attack on 7 October be utterly unacceptable and at odd with the value of this country . by proscribe , we will reassert our unwavering commitment to fight antisemitism , which have increase unacceptably in the United Kingdom and globally in recent month . to the jewish community in the United Kingdom , I say this : " we will always protect british citizen . we will do whatever it take to protect you . " to british muslim parent and to many mosque across the country , I say this : " we will remove this menace that claim to act in your name . Hizb ut - Tahrir do not represent Islam or Muslims . you be a crucial part of our nation and your Government be on your side . " before I conclude , I will make a couple of further point . first , the decision to proscribe be support by our international partner . Hizb ut - Tahrir be ban in many country around the world , include in Germany , and restriction be place on its activity in Austria . this be an organisation that do not believe in border or the nation state , and that call for the overthrow of every Government in the islamic world . it have declare the custodian of the two holy place in Saudi Arabia , the Khadim al - Haramayn , an apostate , and have be ban in Turkey , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates . follow coup attempt in Jordan and Egypt , it have be ban in those country as well . its call for the caliphate be a colonial imperialist ambition from another age and give legitimacy to other , include ISIS and al - Qaeda . when al - Nabhani split from the Muslim Brotherhood to found this organisation in 1953 , it be to a great extent because he do not believe in its incrementalist policy of use democracy , but instead turn to violence and radicalise muslim military to establish a single expansionist islamist empire . this be an organisation call for the conquest of India , Greece , Spain and France — anywhere , in fact , where muslim army once trod , even if that be over 1 , 000 year ago . let we not forget the impact of Hizb ut - Tahrir in the United Kingdom . one of its original leader subsequently go on to set up al - Muhajiroun , a pernicious organisation , now also proscribe , with link to many of the perpetrator of Islamist - inspire attack in recent year . we be take this action to stop the pain and loss cause to countless family across our country who have lose love one to this cult . this proscription be important to protect all community across our country , and to stand with our ally and partner in nation from Indonesia to Morocco . Proscription be a powerful tool . it will significantly hamper Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s operation in the United Kingdom , and damage its activity and support for branch in other part of the world . the United Kingdom must not be a hub for global terrorism : not today , not tomorrow , not ever . it will now be a criminal offence for a person to : belong to Hizb ut - Tahrir ; invite or express support for Hizb ut - Tahrir ; arrange a meeting in support of Hizb ut - Tahrir ; and wear clothing , carry or display article in public in such a way as to arouse reasonable suspicion that the individual be a member of , or a supporter of , Hizb ut - Tahrir . the penalty for conviction of proscription offence can be a maximum of 14 year in prison and / or an unlimited fine . the first duty of Government be to keep our people safe , to guard the home of our friend and fellow citizen , and to discourage any from go down the path of radicalisation that destroy life . nothing matter more . it be a tremendous responsibility and one that we approach with the utmost seriousness . the fight against terrorism demand constant vigilance . when there be a clear need for action to support that vital mission , we will not hesitate . I therefore urge the House to support this proscription order . it be a proportionate response to the promotion and encouragement of terrorism . it be a justified response to call for violence and disorder , and it be necessary to defend our value and to protect all the community of our great country . I thank the Security Minister for what he have say , and his colleague at the Home Office for brief the shadow Home Secretary and I ahead of this debate . today ' s proscription order be underpin by the exceptional man and woman who serve in our intelligence and security service in Government and in our police . they work tirelessly to keep our country safe . we be extremely fortunate to have they . keep our country safe be the first duty of Government and a common cause that we share and treat with the utmost seriousness . on that basis , it be vital that the Government and the opposition work together in the national interest on these crucial issue . as the Minister lay out , the order will amend schedule 2 of the Terrorism Act 2000 to add Hizb ut - Tahrir to the list of proscribe organisation . do so will make it a criminal offence to belong to Hizb ut - Tahrir , to engage in activity such as attend meeting , to promote support for the group , or to display its logo . after year of serious and increase concern about Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s activity both internationally and in the UK , the opposition strongly support its proscription . it be a necessary and proportionate step to effectively counter its hateful extremism and divisive rhetoric which threaten the safety and security of our country . proscription of this international terrorist organisation come after other country , include Germany , have already ban it . Hizb ut - Tahrir be be proscribe now because of escalate activity in the aftermath of Hamas ' s barbaric terrorist attack on Israel . unlike other muslim group in the UK who condemn these attack , Hizb ut - Tahrir Britain glorify as " hero " the Hamas terrorist who revel in act of indiscriminate violence against civilian . in the aftermath of 7 October there be deep sorrow and outrage among the british people , share with the israeli people ; but Hizb ut - Tahrir boast of its " euphoria " on the news of that appalling and tragic loss of life . there be no place on Britain ' s street for vile antisemitism . there be no place on Britain ' s street for those who incite violence and glorify terrorism . there be no place on Britain ' s street for Hizb ut - Tahrir . this terrorist group peddle hate , glorifie violence , and be not only hostile to our value but hostile to the common tenet of humanity . there be nothing new about the divisive and poisonous rhetoric of Hizb ut - Tahrir , which have be widely record for over two decade in the UK , long before the attack of 7 October . organisation such as the Community Security trust , the Antisemitism Policy Trust and the Union of jewish student have long raise serious concern about Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s antisemitism , alongside its misogynistic and homophobic hate speech , which provide a channel for extremism . that be why previous Prime Ministers , Home Secretaries and Security Ministers have consider proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir , but its activity be not recognise as sufficient under the definition of terrorism in section 3 of the Terrorism Act 2000 until now . give the amount of time for which these matter have be debate and consider , I should be grateful if the Minister , when he respond , say whether he think there be lesson to be learn about the length of time that it have take to proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir . will he also say whether he believe that the current proscription process be agile enough to counter threat to our national security robustly , and whether he agree that a bespoke proscription mechanism for state - sponsor organisation — which Labour have already call for — be now require ? counter threat to our national security require join - up , cross - government work , but the counter - extremism strategy have not be update since 2015 , with important element of policy involve community cohesion now the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . give the significance of these matter , I should be grateful if the Minister tell the House when the Government will provide a new definition of hateful extremism . can he also tell we when his Department will update the counter - extremism strategy , an update that have be call for by the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) ? Proscribing Hizb ut - Tahrir be the right thing to do for our national security . for too long the public have be expose to its extremist ideology , its glorification of terrorist activity , and its core aim of overthrow our democratic system of government to replace it with an islamist theocracy . if leave alone , extremism can and will spread insidiously and seep deeply into our national conversation . no Government must ever relent in their determination to ensure that we be always one step ahead of those who seek to harm we or to undermine our way of life . this House must always be on the side of the public whom we strive to serve and protect , and that be why we strongly support this proscription order . rise — Order . I note that there be some interest in this debate . it must end by 1 . 18 pm , so I ask Members to be mindful of the contribution that they make . as I speak in this debate , I will have in mind the 136 hostage who be still hold by Hamas , include Eli Sharabi . several colleague and I meet his brother - in - law , Steve , in the House yesterday . I welcome what both the Minister and the shadow Minister say on this subject , and I disagree with nothing . I thank the organisation that have campaign on this issue over the year , include the UJS and the Antisemitism Policy Trust , which be ably lead by Danny Stone — he have long campaign on this and I congratulate they all on their effort , which have now pay off . my only slight point of disagreement with what have be say be that , once again , I voice my support for the proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , which be behind Hezbollah , Hamas and , of course , the Houthis . this be a debate of consensus , so I will leave that for another day . as the Minister say , Hizb ut - Tahrir be an antisemitic , racist organisation that promote and encourage terrorism . as both Front Benchers say , it openly celebrate the appalling pogrom of 7 October and have describe Hamas as " hero . " they be not hero ; they be murderer and rapist , for which they should be call out by everyone . Hizb ut - Tahrir be an explicitly antisemitic group and have target gay people , woman and Muslims who do not share its perverse interpretation of Islam . it be right to ban this group , but will that ban include its pernicious online activity ? I will now look at some of the individual involve with Hizb ut - Tahrir . Omar Khan Sharif , one of the british bomber of Mike ' s Place in Tel Aviv , be find with Hizb ut - Tahrir literature . the bombing take place in the second intifada , so let we remember what an intifada be , for those who have be march in the street with sign call for an intifada . at the weekend , people hold sign call for a " socialist intifada . " I be not sure what a socialist intifada be — perhaps it mean murder people more fairly — but that be what people have be call for . the second intifada involve the bombing of pub and civilian bus , and it involve the murder of countless innocent civilian . that be what people have be call for on our street , and they have be allow to continue call for it without any police action . it get even bad , because this weekend we hear people not only on the march but on the stage say that massacre should now become the norm . there be no place for that in society , which be why such motion should be welcome not only by every Member but by everyone in this country . I could not agree more . doubtless the majority of people who attend protest be peaceful , but that behaviour be make jewish people in this country frighten of wherever the protest take place . the jewish community in my region have express to I its concern about the small marche we have have in my area , and of course Jews in London be afraid to come into central London when the marche be take place , precisely because of that behaviour , which I believe be by a minority . the leader of Hizb ut - Tahrir in Denmark be convict of racial hatred for distribute a leaflet that say : " kill they , kill the Jews wherever you find they . " the organisation tell its follower that they should not be close friend with non - Muslims . in fact , one of its leaflet say : " we maintain that the clash of civilisation be not only inevitable but imperative . " of course , it share that view with neo - Nazis . it be absolutely right to ban this organisation , and I agree with everything that the Minister and the shadow Minister say . welcome though it be , however , the ban will not end the continue target of the jewish community and jewish people in this country , which have lead to a 1 , 000 % - plus increase in antisemitism . this week I be inform by the police force in my area that pro - palestinian activist might come to protest one of our Holocaust Memorial Day event . I be sure they will protest peacefully , but that event be be target for no other reason than Jews will be present . that be absolutely appalling and disgraceful behaviour , just as it would be for a person to protest Hamas or Hizb ut - Tahrir at a muslim community event . it be completely unacceptable . in fact , it be pervert . a jewish charity that support disaffect young man and young boy in the north of London be target this week by activist , who scream and shout abuse outside . what do a jewish charity work with disaffect youth have to do with this conflict ? it be target for no other reason than it involve Jews . we have see continued denial of the event of 7 October in online space and on the street of this country . although this proscription will do a great deal , it will not prevent the continue target of Jews . indeed , in just the last few day , because of a smear someone post online after I dare to say in this place that people who do not contextualise the israeli response to 7 October with the event of 7 October be give the terrorist a " free pass " , I have receive the most appalling antisemitic communication , include describe the hostage as , " they zionist rat hostage . " someone message I to say , " nobody care about the Jews . " another message I to tell I that I should be flog because of my belief . I have be target with email directly quote the comment make about I on social medium and tell I that they be false - flag operation , that the hostage do not exist and that it be the Israelis who kill people on 7 October — all the various conspiracy theory . the comment on social medium have enable antisemitism of the most awful kind , and I be afraid it will continue , which be why we have to do so much more . I know that both the Government and the opposition have do incredible thing in call all of this out and put extra money into the CST , but the continue target of Jews in this country be deeply disturbing . although this motion be welcome , it will not prevent that from continue . we need tough action . as I say in a Westminster Hall debate , it have seem on occasion as if the Metropolitan police force be act as the public relation arm of some of the protest , instead of do what it should be do and protect british Jews from such hate speech . we be such a small community , just 0 . 5 % of the population . I thank the Minister and the shadow Minister for what they have say , and I welcome this move . I hope the Minister will answer my question on whether the order will apply to Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s online activity . the SNP absolutely support the proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir . we stand with Jews and jewish community against antisemitism . I particularly thank the Union of jewish Students for its work in Aberdeen , and I be grateful for the comment it have bring to I about its experience in the wake of 7 October . the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) tell we about some of the incredibly explicit and horrific comment he have receive , and I feel for all those who receive such comment , whether or not they be in the public light . receive such comment be awful , and we be happy to commit to work with everyone in the House to do everything we can to oppose antisemitism , wherever it occur in our community . we must stamp out antisemitism wherever we can . we recognise the horrifying , dangerous comment and attitude of Hizb ut - Tahrir , and agree with the reason the Minister set out for its proscription . at a time of unprecedented violence on so many front , we call for , and we support those who call for , unity in the face of the force of hatred that try to divide we . can the Minister assure we that , after proscription , he and the Government will take further action to remove Hizb ut - Tahrir ' s ability to operate in the UK and , together with international partner , its ability to operate around the world , where we can do so ? will he update the House on the Government ' s action and its impact , afterwards if necessary ? I understand the need for some of that action to be take without give a head up , but we would like to see the outcome and whether it have have an effect , so that we can support future action and be clear that it will achieve what the Government intend . I wholeheartedly agree with the comment make by the hon . member for Brigg and Goole about the Antisemitism Policy Trust and Danny Stone . Danny be an absolutely dedicated public servant who do a huge amount of good in support his community and bring advice and information to parliamentarian , ensure that we be all far more knowledgeable as a result . will the Minister update the House on whether the Government have make a further assessment of whether to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps ? it continue to be the SNP ' s position that sanction be not enough and that proscription of this organisation be require . if he can assure we that this be be keep under a watch brief , that would give we at least some reassurance that the Government have not entirely rule it out and that it could be consider in the future . we ask that that organisation be proscribe too . I thank the Minister for introduce this order , and I agree with the timescale . it be relatively unusual to have legislation come forward this quickly , but in this case we be happy to support it because of the speed and haste with which this have to be do in order to ensure that Hizb ut - Tahrir can be proscribe . we support the UK Government ' s proscription of the organisation . we hope that the action take by the Minister , his government and everyone mention by those on the shadow Front Bench , include the security staff and the police , will ensure that such organisation can not continue to operate . we support the work that they be do , and we hope that it pay off . we hope that we have positive result as a result of the action that the Government , the security service and the police be take . as I say , we be happy to support the proscription in this case . I rise to support the Government . the proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir be overdue , but it be always good when it happen . I continue to welcome my right hon . friend the Minister to his position . both of we , of course , have be sanction by the Chinese Government , and I may touch on this in a second . the proscription of Hizb ut - Tahrir be overdue because it have be well know for quite some time here that the UK have be at the centre of operation . I be always concerned about how long it sometimes take we in the UK to openly recognise that there be force at work within this United Kingdom , use our freedom and our judicial system to protect themselves while they promote the most ghastly behaviour and attitude . after all , Hizb ut - Tahrir be an antisemitic organisation , as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) and my right hon . friend the Minister have already make clear . antisemitism be at the core of its whole being . it be not an organisation that be passingly antisemitic ; antisemitism be its core belief . let we be clear that the killing of Jews be a priority for Hizb ut - Tahrir , and its activity here in the UK , as a result of the protection it be no long to have , have influence a lot of people who do not really understand what be go on in the middle east and who settle on the idea that Hizb ut - Tahrir be somehow espouse the view of a people who be persecute abroad . it be not ; Hizb ut - Tahrir be talk about the persecution and eventual eradication of the jewish people . Hizb ut - Tahrir be antisemitic and racist , as my hon . Friend say . it have also support other group in their attack on Israel , as have be say already . Hizb ut - Tahrir celebrate the October murder and the taking of hostage , and it have encourage terrorism globally , but it have also provide excuse for some of the nonsense be say at the moment on some of the marche . People do not seem to understand what the organisation be say . I support my hon . friend ' s call to make sure that its online activity be seek out and shut down , and that those involve in they be prosecute under the criminal code . that be critical , so I welcome my Government ' s decision to proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir . it be worth bear in mind — I want to come back to this in a second — that , as my hon . friend say early , there be 79 terrorist organisation proscribe here in the UK , and this will now add to that . I want to come to the other bit here , which be to do with the IRGC . I will not spend too long on this , but I want to make this point , because these organisation be link . we be proscribe an organisation that be dangerous , vile , antisemitic and abusive , but there be another organisation whose finger extend into all these organisation around the world and here in the UK : the IRGC . it make possible much of what go on in term of the attitude towards antisemitism , the attack on people in a democracy , and the misogyny and homophobia within these organisation . it be not just one element ; it be complete . we know now that , since the attack in October , Iran have accelerate its execution of those who have protest against the current regime . an astonishing number of execution be now take place , under cover of what be go on in Gaza . it be quite appalling . we know that the irgc be behind Hezbollah . it direct , it arm and it make sure that Hezbollah act as its arm in Lebanon and beyond . it be attack Israel right now to keep israeli force tie up in northern Israel for tactical reason . the second part be that we be now engage in try to protect our shipping in the Red sea . who be supply the Houthi rebel — the terrorist — with arm and direction ? it be Iran , which have up its supply of rocket to the Houthis . when the Foreign Secretary say to Iran that it have some responsibility for this , as I think he do quite recently , Iran ' s response be , " mind your own business and leave that alone . " it be still supply the Houthis with weapon and , if we do not get our action right , they could shut down the Red sea for all trade . when I be approach by somebody who have be protest , I ask , " be you aware of what be go on here ? " they say , " what do it matter ? these people in Israel be persecute the Palestinians in Gaza , so they ' re right to do this . " I reply , " so you don ' t mind massive inflation hike and huge extra cost . you don ' t mind the fact that trade can not travel down the short route and all the other consideration . " they just look at I blankly , because they have not understand what we be talk about . right now , Iran be directly involve in what be go on in the Red sea to try to shut down the free world ' s business arrangement and affect the cost of good . another part of it be that Iran be quite clearly involve in the attack that take place in October on peaceful israeli citizen and other , the murder and the hostage taking . how do it benefit from this ? Iran know that Israel would have to respond . that be exactly what the whole plan be : to launch a vile attack , murder enough Jews and make sure that israeli territory be invade , so that Israel be bind to attack . I be not go to spend time debate exactly how far Israel should have go or any of that , which be a separate issue . my personal view be very clear : Iran be link to Russia , and what be go on take the attention off Russia and divide America ' s ability to supply arm and weaponry . it create a major debate , which be go on in the United States at the moment , about give supply to the Ukrainians to defend themselves , and it also take the attention away from China ' s aggression towards Taiwan . Iran be part of the axis of authoritarianism which also include China , North Korea , Russia , and now Syria and other in the middle east . Iran be very dangerous , and the irgc be the arm of the iranian Government . not only be Iran behind all the attack , but it continue to persecute Christians to a degree that we simply can not understand . execution , incarceration and abuse be take place , as we hear yesterday in a report deliver here in the House of Commons . what do the Government plan to do about the irgc ? America have ask the British Government to proscribe it , and we simply have not yet respond . I ask a nameless individual who be involve with this , and with the Government , why they have not proscribe the irgc . they say , " it keep a back channel for we to get America through to Iran . " I say , " what ? we now have to act as a back channel for the Americans ? Don ' t we think the American Government be quite capable of find way to engage Iran if they have to ? " they then say , " well , of course we would lose our ability to influence Iran . " I ask they , " exactly what influence have we have over Iran in the last five year ? " they say , " the release of hostage . " I say , " no , you didn ' t . you pay for those big time , and they be hostage - taking for that . " we have no influence over Iran . Iran be dangerous , and the irgc be the arm of that threat around the world . with two iranian bank sit in the City of London , we know how the money be transfer to support some of these organisation , create some of the nonsense on the marche . Most people do not understand what " from the river to the sea " mean , notwithstanding the fact that Hassan Nasrallah make it very clear that the chant mean clear the Jews out of Palestine , and Israel be go . it be as simple as that . he say that that be what it mean , yet people chant it and the Metropolitan police still do not seem to understand that it be an aggressive , antisemitic chant . I have a jewish sister - in - law who tell I the other day that she have never feel more under threat and less safe in this country in her whole life . what a statement to make in this United Kingdom , which uphold freedom of speech and the rule of law — that a jewish person now feel desperately under threat just get up and go to work in the morning . that be simply not right and we need to deal with it . who be behind all this ? the irgc . in his concluding remark , will the Minister please address this issue ? it be more than high time . this be a cross - party issue ; I know that those on the Opposition Front Bench have call for it . we have to face this . the irgc must now be proscribe and the bank of Iran shut down in the UK . the irgc can no long continue to use the UK as a base for further operation . I congratulate the Government on their decision on Hizb ut - Tahrir , but we should go a lot far . we need to protect our citizen . I congratulate the Government — I will not say that too many time — on take the important and welcome step of ban the extremist antisemitic , misogynistic and homophobic group that be Hizb ut - Tahrir . I echo the comment of the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) about the 136 hostage still in Gaza . one message that we can all get behind be to bring they home now . this group pose a threat not only to democratic institution but to people , include the vast majority of the muslim community here at home . Hizb ut - Tahrir , or HUT , as I will refer to it , have blight our shore and specifically our university campus for year . it have run meeting and distribute leaflet , include one that describe Jews as " coward " and call on Muslims to " purify yourself against the deception of the Jews " . on the Israel - Palestine conflict , it have call for " the elimination of the monstrous jewish entity , restore all of Palestine to the land of Islam " . if that be not an organisation preach hatred , I do not know what be . anti - racism campaigner include the Union of jewish student have be particularly alive to the threat , and its officer have run campaign over many year , include , successfully , to have the group outlaw by the National Union of Students as early as 1994 . despite that , UK HUT activist have seek to circumvent such effort . report have emerge that between 2022 and 2023 , keynote speaker from HUT speak to 10 separate campus over 18 month , include in Bradford and Birmingham , and at the London School of Economics . the speaker include Luqman Muqeem , a prominent figure on the HUT website , who speak five time at the University of Birmingham , despite have post video online in which he say that Muslims must fight Jews to the death and voice support for the attack on Sir Salman Rushdie . HUT have a long history of use front group on campus . for example , radical from the group have seek to pass themselves off as the one Nation Society , the Democracy Society , the Islamic Front , the Muslim Media Forum , the Muslim Current Affairs Society , the New World Society and the 1924 Society . in change the legislation , will the Government also look at those organisation to ensure that HUT can find no further loophole to preach its hatred on university campus ? such group be observe at university across the country , include in Nottingham , at Queen Mary and , locally to I , in Manchester . concern have be raise about how the group might have continue to undermine our legal and official system use those front group . the Antisemitism Policy Trust ' s Danny Stone , who have rightly be mention several time in the debate , highlight to the Public Bill Committee for the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 the danger of HUT , in its many guise , misuse the new free speech protection in order to solicit compensation . it be therefore extremely welcome news that that potential loophole be now firmly closed , but I ask the Minister to confirm that front group , alias and other mask will not be enough to prevent HUT ' s member from be identify and prosecute . this move will be welcome not only by I : numerous other — individual such as Sir Anthony Glees , and group such as the CST and HOPE not hate — have call for HUT to be proscribe . although I welcome today ' s move we need , as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , to go far and proscribe the one group that be not only provide funding but destabilising entire region : the IRGC . that be more important now than ever , consider the last 100 day or so . both group be antisemitic ; they blatantly repeat those trope time and again . I have mention that in this Chamber , on the street , in Westminster Hall and online , and will continue to do so , because we need to highlight what an evil organisation the IRGC be . both organisation perpetuate homophobia , suggest that both Labour and the Conservatives should not be trust because of our work to protect LGBT community . again , that be not welcome in a modern , tolerant society . the irgc rail against what it define as the " secular , democratic , liberal system " , and in favour of a global caliphate . these be freedom and right that we have work hard to earn , and we will protect they with every ounce of our being , because that be the right thing to do . Worldwide , HUT have reportedly be behind attempt coup in Jordan , Syria and Egypt , again with the backing of the irgc . the irgc be also in Yemen , back the Houthis , in Lebanon with Hezbollah , and in Gaza with Hamas . those activity be not limit to foreign country : we see they on the street in this country , which be why we really need to tackle the threat of the irgc seriously . when we see Hamas operative here in the capital , that be a step too far . this move from the Government be important and correct . it be slightly overdue , but it be welcome . I thank the Minister for come to the House to highlight it , but we need to go far . I place on the record my support , and that of my party , for today ' s measure . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) give a lot of important international context , particularly in relation to recent event in the Red sea and in Yemen . I will spare the House a repetition of what he say . I simply place on the record the fact that I very much endorse his analysis of what be go on there , not least because it bring into sharp relief the role of the irgc . as other have say , it seem as if the focus of our attention must now turn in the direction of the irgc . if it be any consolation to the Minister , I think it have emerge from today ' s debate that a consensus to proscribe the irgc would be easily construct . whether to proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir be not a new debate ; it have be go on for a considerable time . I think it be back in 2011 that David Anderson , the Government reviewer of terror legislation , advise against proscription on the basis that the group be not advocate violence . clearly , we be in a different situation today , but I mention that because I feel slightly conflict about the speed with which we have move . we should be slow to ban any organisation because , as a society , it be not something we should do lightly . however , once the evidence be there , as it clearly have be for some time and as it have be in relation to the irgc , then , as the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) say , that raise question about whether our process for make such decision be adequate . obviously , it be important to take this step as part of our domestic legislation at the moment , because not to do so would send the bad possible signal to those in the jewish community who have feel so embattle since the event of 7 October . I hope they will take some comfort from the fact that action of this sort have be take against those who have preach , and do more than preach , antisemitism . however , there be a wide legislative context . as important as it be to proscribe organisation like Hizb ut - Tahrir , that be only part of a big plan . it seem that many of the other tool in that fight , such as the Prevent strategy , be not achieve the goal we need they to achieve . they be overdue for a proper root - and - branch review . let we not forget that a spiral emerge here : we see the growth in antisemitism and antisemitic hate crime , but that in turn produce a growth in Islamophobia . so we do not proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir in the interest only of jewish community , but in the interest of muslim community as well . the tackling of extremism , of which that be just part , have to be at the heart of find a long - term and sustainable way of approach the issue . I encourage the Minister to speak again to his colleague in the Home Office , in particular about the Prevent strategy . we know what we want it to achieve but , as we view it today , I have serious concern about its ability to deliver what we need it to do . truly , the world be become a hostile place . the more we watch what happen across the world , the more we be convince of the evil intent of many . I thank the Minister for his statement , clarity and strength of intention . I know that my party will fully support he , as we always do when it come to these matter . the reason for the proscription have be clearly outline by other . it be important that we do something in relation to the Hamas murder of 1 , 200 innocent Israelis , the taking of hostage , the continue war of aggression and their view about the annihilation of the Israelis . in the UK , we want to play our part . the Minister have outline how we can take on the terrorist activity and intention of those who march in the street and think they have a status above the law of the land . today , quite clearly , they do not , and we welcome that . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) always speak with much wisdom and bring forward issue that we all endorse in their entirety . the proscription of the irgc be critical because it fund , train and give weapon to many terrorist organisation across the world . we need to take that proscription a stage far , on top of this one , and do that with a zest . I be ever mindful that 79 organisation have be proscribe already . as a Northern Ireland MP , I be obviously aware of the issue , as be the right hon . and gallant Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , from his personal point of view , have serve in the Army and now as the Minister for Security . the real IRA and the New IRA have be most active , and the threat level in Northern Ireland be at a height we have not see for some time . there have be a number of demonstration across Northern Ireland and we be ever mindful of international terrorism , as those who want to murder , destabilise , kill , maim and destroy come together , wherever they may be from . I be conscious that it be not always appropriate for the Minister to answer certain question in the Chamber , but I want to put on the record my concern about the connection between IRA republicanism and international terrorism . during the demonstration that have take place across Northern Ireland , thing be say and do that should never have be do in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , where I be great believer in unity and be well together . on commitment by police force , have the Minister have the opportunity to speak to the force here on the mainland and to the Police Service of Northern Ireland , to ensure that they collectively take on Hizb ut - Tahrir , the terrorist organisation proscribe today ? I be sure he have , but it would be nice to have that on the record . it be important that we be unified on the issue , as we be in the Chamber , especially when it come to intelligence gathering and work collectively . police force need to be able to exchange their point of view and the intelligence that they gather to ensure that they protect our citizen across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , which we all have a duty to do . the proscription today be a step in the right direction , but I hope the Minister can provide some reassurance on my final point . I pay tribute to member for the tone in which the debate have be conduct . I place on record my thank to the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) ; it be a pleasure to stand with he again in protect our country ' s interest , this time a little close to home . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) , who be with he on the Opposition Front Bench early . she be an extremely able predecessor in his role and a great help . I repeat the hon . Gentleman ' s thank to the intelligence service , who have do so much to prepare the evidence in various different way which have enable we to support these various action , although much of the information have be public , so it have be able to prepare it in the usual way . I thank he for his comment about the way in which this work have be do . as he recognise , it have be a little quick than we would normally go , but I be grateful that the Scottish National party and the Labour party recognise that there be an urgency to this matter and have support it . I will briefly answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question about the timing of the proscription . this be , quite rightly , detailed legal work . the judgment have to be make extremely carefully . it must be not only lawful but proportionate , and we must get that balance right . as other have mention , proscription be an extremely powerful tool . it be not a political tool or to be use at the whim of a Government or Minister to silence critic or debate . this tool should be use only to protect the british people from terrorism — that be its purpose . we need to make absolutely clear that we be use it appropriately and only when necessary . all of we in this House , I hope , support freedom of view and freedom of expression . we have all hear thing we may not like , but we would defend the right of people to say they , and we must ensure we be extremely careful about that . the hon . Gentleman raise a question about the definition of extremism . as he know , we be work on that . I pay a huge tribute to those work on that and to the Government ' s counter extremism adviser , Robin Simcox , who have be an extremely important voice in much of the debate . I thank member on the Opposition Front Bench for their support . I turn to my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , who have be a good friend of mine , but more importantly a good friend to his community for a very long time . he be tireless in the campaign against antisemitism . he rightly identify what we be see today as be in the mould of the fascist movement of the 1930 . we could easily mistake some of the word on the work of Hizb ut - Tahrir as come from the voice of some of the fascist leader of the 1920 . they bear a stark resemblance to they . he be absolutely right that the online activity must be ban , and he will be pleased to hear that they be : all activity by this group be ban . my hon . friend be also right to say that Jews should not be afraid to be in London at any time , and certainly not on a Saturday or a Sunday , when many people want to go out shopping or just to be with friend and family . these protest , sadly , have not only be vile demonstration of some of the bad part of our community , but radicalise moment in themselves . I know the police be aware of that ; the Home Secretary and I have both speak to they about that . I thank the right hon . and gallant Member for give way . he join I on the march against antisemitism several week ago when ten of thousand of people be say no to Jew hatred . may I use this moment to say that there be a similar march in Manchester this weekend ? if any Member want to join we to say no to antisemitism , they would be more than welcome . the hon . Gentleman will see I again on Sunday , as I will be there with he . may I suggest to my right hon . friend that his Department look into the possibility of confine marche to a static location ? the fact be that all people be currently be inhibit from attend central London at weekend and that be have a significant impact on commerce and shop in the west end . I would not want to see demonstration inhibit by have cost impose on they , but it seem a perfectly reasonable compromise after so many marche to have static location . I thank my right hon . friend for his suggestion . I shall certainly take that away and I be sure that my colleague in the Department will come back to he . may I just turn to the remark of the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) ? she rightly praise the Union of jewish Students in Aberdeen and the work that it have do . the union have do some incredibly important work around the United Kingdom in our university , which have see a rise in antisemitism on their campus . I have already speak to Universities UK and the Russell Group about that . we simply can not tolerate this . it be simply unacceptable to see student exclude from education because of the vile hatred of other . it be wrong . it be unbritish and it will not be tolerate . the hon . Lady will understand — I hope that she forgive I — why for very obvious reason I will not go into the action that the police and other organisation may be take , but she can be assure that conversation have be have that will lead to action as soon as possible to ensure that this proscription , once authorise by both Houses , will not be sit idly on the book and will be enforce as she would rightly expect . just before the Minister finish on that point , will he commit to update we , even if it be some time down the line , about the impact that those action have have , to assure we that they have work ? absolutely , I will do that . I hope the House forgive I if I sound slightly coy in the way that I put this , but I will update the hon . Lady as soon as I can in the most appropriate way possible . I now turn to the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who note that we be both sanction by the chinese state . I can add both the iranian and russian government , and after today , I think he will be join I in at least one of those . what we be see be a pattern of violence , as he rightly identify . it have spread out of Tehran over many decade and have have an influence on many different group , include , as he correctly identify , in the Red sea in this late episode of Houthi piracy . we be incredibly aware of that , which be why the Government have rightly take action . the Prime Minister be absolutely clear immediately that we should stand not just with our american ally , but with many other around the world in make sure that we defend freedom of navigation and that we protect those people work on ship , who be from very diverse background and have be target by this violence in recent month . sadly , we have see the murder of crew and ship worker by Houthi rebel in the Red sea , and it be right that we take action . I be grateful to the Prime Minister for his clear and determined response . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green also raise the question of deal with state actor in this matter . this be something that he and I have discuss in the past . I draw the House ' s attention to the recent introduction of the National Security Act 2023 , which give extraordinary and extra power to our intelligence and police service to make sure that they may take action not just against intelligence service but against any who be support they and work with they . it be not , I admit , the same as proscription , but it do give a huge range of authority to our community to make sure that it be properly defend against the threat that we see . it would be wrong of I to comment far on proscription option that we may be hold in reserve . as member will know , for very clear reason these be matter that we do not discuss until we be ready to announce they . none the less , it be absolutely right to say that we be take the state abuse of our citizen , or the intervention of state in our Government or economic process , extremely seriously . that sit alongside the National Security and Investment Act 2021 and hopefully demonstrate clearly to the whole House that we will not tolerate foreign interference or foreign aggression on our soil , or illegitimate use by foreign intelligence service of organisation within the United Kingdom that be design to do we harm . the hon . member for Bury South , who I will be see on Sunday , also speak about front group , and he be absolutely right to do so . if there be alias or name change , provision can be change quickly . that be cover under the Terrorism Act 2000 . should it be necessary , we will update the House , but member can be assure that simply change a name do not avoid proscription . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) speak about advocate violence and the challenge of radicalisation in what we be see . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that the independent reviewer of Prevent , Sir William Shawcross , have just publish his report . he have do what I think be a magisterial piece of work , which highlight area where we need to update and change policy . we have accept his recommendation and be in the process of make sure that the Prevent duty , as it apply to this country , be there to help and protect family across this country not just from the effect of violence , but from the effect of radicalisation . the pain that many family must feel when their child be tear away into these cult - like organisation be horrific , and it be quite right that we protect family from every community across this country . that be where the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be right as well . of course this action apply across the whole of the United Kingdom and of course we will be have conversation with police force across the whole of the United Kingdom . I regularly communicate with the PSNI , which be a very important part of our national police presence and a very effective police force . I be grateful to the hon . member for his comment and support . this action be about protect the whole of the United Kingdom against terror . sadly , his part of the United Kingdom have experience far too much of that , although I remember very clearly , as a child here in London , the effect of northern irish terror be feel on the underground and on the bus , where , sadly , too many people be also kill and maim . on that , I thank the House for this debate . I hope that this motion will go through as intend to ensure that this country be well protect . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . Backbench Business Loan Charge I beg to move , that this House be deeply concerned that HMRC have confirm the suicide of 10 people face the Loan Charge and that , despite the Morse Review , thousand face unaffordable demand , with the risk of further suicide ; note that HMRC have also confirm 24 case of serious harm , include 13 suicide attempt ; believe that many people who use scheme be victim of mis - selling , and that in other case employer and agency push people into use they , yet HMRC be demand all dispute tax from scheme user , not from those who recommend , promote and operate the scheme ; further note that section 44 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 deem agency worker to be taxable as employee of those agency and that HMRC should have collect tax from agency at the time ; criticise hmrc transfer the liability to individual despite its own failure ; observe that HMRC be pursue open enquiry for scheme before 2011 despite the Morse Review ; also note that HMRC be seek additional payment from those who settle ; far believe that the Morse Review be limited and not genuinely independent of HM Treasury and HMRC ; highlight the resolution propose by tax professional ; call on the Government to work with all party to find a fair resolution and for a full independent investigation , include into the conduct of HMRC ; and believe that taxpayer right must be enshrine in law and enquiry close after four year if HMRC fail to act . before we start the debate , on behalf of my party , I pass on our condolence to the family of Tony Lloyd . he serve for a short time as the shadow Minister for Northern Ireland . I always find he to be very courteous and well inform , and he want to be well informed . he ask the right question and be always prepared to engage , even though he often do not agree with some of the stand we take . he be always happy to engage with all the party in Northern Ireland , and we pass on our condolence to his family . order . I be slightly concerned that there be something wrong with the sound . let we start again . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope that the point I be make about Tony Lloyd be pick up . I want to pass on the condolence of our party to his family , and I pay tribute to the work he do as shadow Minister for Northern Ireland . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . it be a timely debate and I know that the many thousand of people across the United Kingdom who have be affect by the loan charge in a very detrimental way will be glad that it be be consider in this House . over the past two week , we have be look at the dramatic fallout of the Horizon scandal at the Post Office and , quite rightly , we have be focus on what belatedly can be do to repay and to deal with that great injustice . I say to the House — I do not think that I be be overdramatic when I say this — that we be look at another Horizon scandal , and the parallel be frightening . first , because of the action of a Government Department , 10 people in the United Kingdom have commit suicide and many other have attempt to take their own life because of the pressure they be put under by official and by statute pass by this Parliament . we have hear time and again in evidence to the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group of the disruption and disaster this have cause in many family . secondly , despite the fact that alarm bell should be ring in the Treasury , no action have be take . indeed , some Ministers have even refuse to meet the group . other have simply put out the party line and regurgitate the excuse of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs for what be happen . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that it seem to be the case yet again that people act in good faith be be prosecute and pursue , whereas the people who absolutely know what they be do be get away scot - free ? that be a point I want to come to . we be see that once again minister be turn a blind eye , and these lesson should be learn . apart from two example of Ministers that I can think of , one of whom — a former Minister — be present , Ministers turn a blind eye for year . we then have the result , but it be not until an ITV programme bring this matter to the nation as a whole that action be take . we have have attempt by HMRC to justify what it have be do . in the past , postmaster and postmistress who have unblemished record for year be accuse of be thief . we be now be tell that the people who HMRC be chase today be — to use its word — " serial tax evader " . Minister , I have to say that when I read the letter that you — order . the right hon . Gentleman know that he do not address the Minister directly , but through the Chair . when I read the letter that the Minister send to the joint chair of the all - party group , he start by once again remind we that " as you be aware , disguised remuneration scheme be contrive tax avoidance arrangement that seek to avoid Income Tax and National Insurance contribution " . it be almost like a warning : " Don ' t be take up these case , because these be bad people that you be talk about . " that be exactly parallel to what we find with the Horizon scandal . I agree with how the right hon . Gentleman have introduce the debate . he mention the scale of how HMRC be go after people catch up with the loan charge . be that not in stark contrast with how multinational company be enter into sweetheart deal with HMRC , such as Google and Vodafone ? indeed , it be , and I will come to the issue of HMRC chase the individual , rather than the promoter . will the right hon . member give way ? let I just make this point : it seem that HMRC be go after those whom it regard as easy target . the promoter of the scheme have not pay one penny , despite the fact that they have make hundred of million of pound from the scheme , have mis - sell they and have disappear when there be any attempt to get at they . the promoter be not be pursue and , indeed , HMRC have admit that it do not intend to chase after the promoter , and yet individual be be harass to the point where many of they have take their own life . I congratulate the right hon . member on have secure today ' s debate , especially give that at least 10 people have sadly commit suicide . it be of course essential that disguised remuneration scheme be deal with fairly and effectively , but why do he think the Government and HMRC have not actively pursue the architect and promoter of the scheme , rather than the victim who have be lead into the scheme ? the answer be easy : the victim be easy target . they be the one who be easy to chase . the promoter of the scheme have all kind of mean of defence . many disappear when they realise that they may well be pursue . this be the baffle thing , and maybe the Minister can explain it : if these scheme be design as contrive way of avoid tax , why be HMRC not pursue even some of the new promoter who be establish themselves today and who will have disappear by tomorrow , once it be see that their scheme be be challenge ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his courtesy on this occasion . I share his comment about Sir Tony Lloyd , who be a member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , which I chair . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the regulation of promoter . where be the regulation of those individual ? this be an ungoverned space . surely , as they be try to sell financial service product , they should at least come under the control of the Financial Conduct Authority . we have to not just focus on what have happen in the past , but look at what be happen now , where innocent people be be exploit . I intend to come on to that point . the parallel , as I say , be frightening . I ask myself this question and the Minister should be ask it of himself , too . in one , two , four , five or 10 year ' time , will we see the same embarrassment and see Ministers who parrot the Department ' s line be ask the question , " why do you not raise the alarm at the time ? why be the explanation not challenge , and why be the call for help not heed ? " that should be a salutary warning to Ministers . it be very unusual that I agree with every word the right hon . Gentleman say — [ interruption . ] I be be generous . the simple truth be that HMRC fail to police this issue . many people make HMRC aware of their involvement in the scheme and it take HMRC year to get back to they or even to look into the issue . that be one of the real crime here . I be glad the hon . Gentleman agree with everything I have say today . I think he have even dress to show that agreement , with his red , white and blue outfit , and I appreciate that very much . maybe he have become a unionist as well — even for a day , that would be something of a miracle . let we look at the role of HMRC and the approach it have take . it have be rightly point out that there should have be much more supervision within HMRC of what be go on . HMRC be now say that it believe that many of the people who use payroll loan scheme should have be pay pay - as - you - earn , but at the time HMRC be not challenge the scheme , and the promoter be able to say they be legitimate . for year , people be act in the belief that they be legitimate and be no risk . and here be the ultimate irony : HMRC employ people on contract to do work for it , know that those people be be pay in that way , and never challenge it . that be the case , we have to ask what the level of supervision be , or whether HMRC change its mind and then , have do so , decide to go after the individual who have undertake those scheme . some people will argue , " well , it ' s their own fault . after all , they know that when they go into one of these scheme their tax liability may have be reduce . if people do that , they take that risk . " the fact be that many people do not volunteer to go into those scheme . many people be force into they . some people be put into those scheme and do not even know they be in they . as far as they be concern , they be employ by a contractor and their tax be be deduct , and they only find out later on that that be not the case . by the way , this be not rich people employ fancy accountant to tell they how to avoid their tax . many of the people catch up in the scheme be ordinary worker — nurse , teacher , cleaner — and some be people who want to set up a company and , because of the flaw in IR35 , this be the only way of deal with their tax affair . People do not always volunteer to go into the scheme . one of the way we discover that HMRC be involve in this be that one lady come to we and say , " I be employ by an IT consultancy , the contractor be work for HMRC and the only way I could get the job be to be pay through one of these scheme . I do not particularly want to , but I want the work , so I have to enter into the scheme . " HMRC , apparently , be quite happy for that contractor to pay its worker in that manner . in many case , if people want to work , they be force into these kind of scheme . for year , although it be quite clear that there be an employer - employee relationship and they be under the direction and supervision of a company , they be treat as if they be separate stand - alone employee or individual self - employ people who could pay tax in that way . the result be , of course , that when it be decide that the scheme be not tax compliant and there be year and year of back tax , Ministers be persuade to introduce the loan charge in the Finance Act 2017 . it be very convenient for HMRC to have that arrangement in place , because use the loan charge enable it to decide what tax an individual be liable for and people could not challenge it in the normal way tax dispute can be deal with , through either tribunal or court . that be rule out for they . in many instance , HMRC do not even have to explain how the tax bill be reach . if people do not have any redress to a court or tribunal , they really have no chance of negotiate whether or not the tax they have be deem liable for be a liability and a correct liability . add to that be the fact that many employer see the scheme as an advantage , because they could employ people without pay employment taxis or have to deal with pension or holiday pay . that be why many employer force individual to be pay in that way . those who argue , " look , these people try to avoid pay tax , so slap it up they now , they have reap the consequence and they should just grin and bear it . " . should bear in mind that thousand of people be affect by this because they be impotent to stop that method of payment be use and be tell by the promoter that it be all compliant and that there be no risk . in fact , 93 % of those in the scheme be assure there be no risk and that they be compliant . indeed , they probably be compliant until , in later year , HMRC decide they be not compliant . People be leave with tax investigation go back to 2010 , which have result in many of they find it impossible to pay . I want to mention a couple of case study , because the confusion in HMRC make it very difficult for people to settle . HMRC do not seem to have the capacity to tell people . in one particular case , an individual be tell after six year , " you owe £ 91 , 000 . " he want to settle rather than be put in the loan charge . he be tell , despite the fact that that be not in the criterion , " we don ' t believe you can afford to pay £ 91 , 000 on the term you have give . " so no settlement be grant and he be put in the loan charge , and the man who could not afford to pay £ 91 , 000 be then hit with a bill of £ 124 , 000 . he could not afford to pay £ 91 , 000 in a settlement , but he be push into a loan charge where he have to pay £ 124 , 000 . we have the back charge , tax year that people think be close have be reopen , the confusion and some people now have to pay more in tax than they actually earn . HMRC do estimate ; I think one person be tell , when an explanation be seek of why they owe so much , that it be because everybody else pay that amount — and of course there be no redress . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on bring such an important debate to the Chamber . I have be contact by several constituent who have describe themselves as victim of this situation . do he agree that those people who be be ask to pay what my constituent describe as incomprehensible amount of money , while their employer and the people who provide those scheme be not be pursue for one penny , be victim , but be assume to be criminal ? do he agree that they must be treat as victim and that this must be cover by a truly independent inquiry ? that bring I to the very last point — I promise it be my last , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will simply list the point and other people can take they up and expand they later on . there be a number of issue the Minister must consider . first , while I have no evidence of this , we have be tell that HMRC official , just as Post Office official be , be on commission for the money that they bring in through the loan charge . the Minister must confirm whether that be the case , because if so , it would act as a huge incentive for they to pursue individual relentlessly . secondly , I trust that the Minister , in his new position , will challenge the Department ' s line on this matter . we need a great challenge than we have have so far . thirdly , I believe that the loan charge need to be repeal because it be not fit for purpose and be have a detrimental effect . fourthly , the employer and promoter must be pursue . under the law , they be responsible for collect tax from the employee . that be the basis on which tax demand be now be make of people — that they be employee , not self - employ . fifthly , of course we recognise that the Government have to collect tax when it be due , but the current method of pursue this will not bring in tax revenue because people be go bankrupt . a group of professional have propose that the Government could claim back an affordable proportion of the tax that be owe . they would get at least some tax revenue out of it while stop this relentless pursuit of individual . in the long run , I think we need a Bill of right for taxpayer , and for tax fairness to be build into legislation , but that be a matter for a long debate . there be people who be suffer today because they be be batter by the cosh that HMRC official be use on they to extract money that they do not have and which many of they do not believe they owe . I ask the Minister to grasp this nettle and ensure that we do not have another Horizon scandal . as colleague can see , this be a very well - subscribe debate , with another debate to follow . in order to give equal time to Back Benchers throughout the afternoon , my advice — I would rather not put a time limit on — be that colleague stick to about seven minute . I be sure that Greg Smith will lead the way . I will do my good , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) not only on secure the debate but on the incredibly powerful and eloquent way in which he open it — I entirely endorse his speech . indeed , alongside the right hon . Gentleman and the noble Baroness Kramer , I serve as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the loan charge and taxpayer fairness . it be through that lens , and give the many constituent of mine who be victim of the loan charge , that I have become profoundly trouble by what I can only describe as one of the most significant crisis face by british taxpayer , certainly in my living memory . the loan charge have haunt , and be still haunt , thousand of our constituent throughout the country , bring with it a train of despair and destruction that should weigh heavily on HMRC and all of we in this House . to date , an estimate 60 , 000 people have be affect by the loan charge . tragically , as have already be say , 10 of those people have come to the tragic conclusion of end their own life . I invite the House to reflect on a retrospective hmrc tax policy that have lead to 10 people — I pray no more — end their life . those be not number on a page ; they be human tragedy . each one be a poignant reminder of the injustice feel by individual who be still grapple with the devastating consequence of the amount of money ask of they — in some case , more than they earn in the first place — as the right hon . Gentleman mention . the profound impact of the loan charge extend its reach far beyond mere statistic and financial repercussion . it be a devastating narrative that encompass contractor , freelancer and agency worker from all walk of life . those professional , seek compliance under IR35 legislation , take and follow professional guidance in good faith . on the point about take advice and be lead by agency and promoter , do the hon . Member agree that it be simply scandalous that none of those agency have be pursue by HMRC for their part in this , and that that further heighten the injustice feel by those who be be pursue ? that be a point on which we have consensus . it be outrageous that promoter have not be pursue . the all - party parliamentary group have consider and take evidence on that , and I will certainly continue to push that point in this debate and for the week , month and year ahead , in try to get justice for all the victim of the loan charge and hold to account those who give that advice , who , I suggest , know what they be do . I thank my hon . friend for give way and the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) for secure the debate . do my hon . friend agree that protect the coffer of the state should never take precedence over protect the life of our constituent ? my hon . friend make an incredibly powerful point with which I entirely agree . part of the ask of this debate and of the all - party parliamentary group on the loan charge and taxpayer fairness be a fair settlement that people can actually afford to pay ; that take into account — dare I say it — reality ; and that understand what people actually earn and that they act in good faith and take the professional advice that I mention a few moment ago . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? one more time . the hon . Gentleman be be generous . be it not the case that what we need be proper transparency in how Government body operate ? when so many people see these problem again and again , that really undermine trust in Government . I agree with the hon . Lady . of course we need transparency across all walk of life — Government or otherwise . the right hon . member for East Antrim refer to the Horizon scandal and the Post Office . there be a clear similarity , and there need to be an inquiry and serious action . how can a body of the state — the Post Office in the case of the Horizon scandal , and HMRC in the case of the loan charge scandal — be autonomous in be judge , jury and executioner at the same time ? we simply have to take that away . check and balance must be build into HMRC if we be to see justice for the loan charge victim , as well as for victim of any other scandal that might well come about . I could say much more on this subject , but I be mindful of the time limit that you have set , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend the Minister for his letter yesterday offer a meeting with the all - party parliamentary group . I hope that we can get that meeting in the diary as soon as humanly possible so that we can have meaningful dialogue on how to get to a settlement , a review of HMRC practice and justice for the loan charge victim . give the colleague whom I have see bob , particularly from the Conservative Benches , I suspect that we will hear many more powerful story and testimony from victim of the loan charge , whose life we should see as totally valuable and deserving of our attention and of justice . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate , and I congratulate the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) on have secure it . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . I declare my membership of the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group . as we have hear , this be a long - stand issue that continue to have an impact on the health and wellbeing of thousand of people right across the country , include resident of Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . among they be my constituent , Geraint Owen , whom I have meet on a number of occasion over a long period of time . he and other victim of this scandal have experience considerable frustration in attempt to deal with HMRC . the way HMRC have deal with this issue have cause unbelievable hardship , distress and anxiety for large number of the people we serve . this sorry saga bear strike similarity to the Post Office / Horizon scandal , which we have hear so much about in recent week . ordinary people up and down the country be be ask for unrealistic payment , which be cause huge financial hardship , bankruptcy and bad , such as the risk of lose their home and an increase risk of suicide . there be real concern that this be another scandal where the Government have ignore the alarm bell and cry for help , so I urge they to revisit it and ensure a fair and more effective approach . this debate be a huge opportunity to highlight the injustice of the loan charge scandal . at a recent meeting of the all - party group , we hear more harrowing story about how people ' s life have be rip apart by the loan charge . the Government ' s approach have mean that ordinary people who be victim of mis - selling be face huge bill , which be cause they untold distress and personal harm . tragically , the number of suicide link to this scandal have reach double figure . clearly , Labour support attempt to tackle tax avoidance scheme , but that be not what we be talk about in this case . the fact that there have be so many shocking account of harm and distress suffer by people liable to the loan charge , include those we hear at meeting of the all - party group , demonstrate how the Government ' s approach have go badly wrong . labour have consistently call for a fair and effective approach from HMRC instead of the current approach , which be extremely tough on those catch up in these scheme . we be clear that the 2019 Morse review can not be the final word on this matter . we table an amendment to the Finance Act 2020 that would have force the Government to review the impact of the scheme and the fairness of hmrc ' s implementation of the policy , and a propose new clause to the Finance Act 2022 that would have require the Chancellor to commission an independent review to consider HMRC ' s approach to the loan charge scheme and make recommendation on how it should be alter ; it would also have require the Government to explain to the House of Commons what effort they have make to guarantee the review ' s independence . we need a fair and effective approach from HMRC instead of the current approach , which be extremely tough on those catch up in these scheme , but weak on their architect . as the all - party group previously suggest , the tax burden should not fall solely on the individual user of the scheme , but should be share by the employer and agency and also , ideally and appropriately , the operator and promoter of the scheme . on that basis , the Government should change course and announce a fair approach . we must remember the human impact of the loan charge : as we know and as I touch on early , HMRC have confirm that there have be 10 suicide of people face the loan charge ; it have also confirm that there have be 13 suicide attempt . that in itself should be enough reason to stop this cruel retrospective policy . I urge the Government to accept that there be something deeply wrong with their current approach to the loan charge scheme . report to the Treasury Select Committee last October state that around 40 , 000 people still face the loan charge , mean that four and a half year on , there be still many unresolved case . the current approach have not work : HMRC be still try to resolve ten of thousand of case , and 10 family have lose love one to suicide . this whole sorry saga be cruel and unacceptable . action be need now . the Government must think again . when ordinary people who be the victim of mis - sell face financial ruin and personal harm because of the way the loan charge have be pursue , action must be take urgently . I hope that in sum up today ' s debate , the Minister will address the point I have make . I will try not to repeat everything that have be say , but it be very difficult not to . one thing relevant to this debate that I discover in government , and that I have constantly observe , be that HMRC be a very peculiar Department . HMRC be unaccountable ; it be the only Department that do not publish account every year , so there be no scrutiny of money lose or fail to be gain . HMRC act independently , with many civil servant go on radio and television , not reliant on Ministers to take the responsibility for they . that have be one of the big problem : the backdrop to this issue be that HMRC operate almost with impunity . I have see minister come and go at the Dispatch Box who be tell one thing by HMRC , leave their position and then come back and say , " I do not know half of the stuff that be go on . " I simply say that there be a problem with HMRC . regard the way that HMRC work , campaigner have often ask to see draft document that be hide from they — for example , they be not able to see a draft of a report . one of the thing evident in the Post Office / Horizon / Fujitsu scandal be that hold back information be detrimental to justice . do the right hon . Member agree that that information should be make available wherever it be practical to do so ? absolutely , which bring I back to the point I be just make . I mean no insult to the civil servant , who work very hard ; it be simply that the culture of HMRC be one of impunity . it do not behave like many other Government Departments . we have problem with other Departments — I run one , so I know what that be all about — but HMRC act very differently from they , and ultimately it be protect by the Treasury . that be where one of the big problem arise , and it be why it be so difficult to get any information out of HMRC , because even the Ministers who be in charge of it seem unable to command or direct it to provide that information . I make that observation from have work in government . my right hon . friend be make a very powerful point about HMRC . it be the product of a forced merger of the Inland Revenue and her Majesty ' s Customs and Excise by , I think , Gordon Brown and the Labour Government . the merger be rush — they be push together — and HMRC have never enjoy the proper scrutiny and ministerial involvement that it should have receive . do my right hon . friend agree that now be the time for a root - and - branch review and a change to the nature of HMRC — retain its independent function , of course , but allow for great ministerial oversight ? I agree . I do not intend my speech to head off down this track , but I will observe that it have now become clear that HMRC be unable to find any legal basis to justify its claim that it have to pursue individual , but not those who promote the scheme . HMRC have try to deny that for some time , but it have now become very clear ; even its head , the permanent secretary , have state that " in recent month I have repeatedly try to obtain legal analysis to understand the strength of our claim with very little success . for yesterday ' s hear we be initially give a summary of avoidance win , some of which seem to have nothing to do " with the scheme . I simply say that HMRC still can not justify the legal basis for pursue individual and not go after those who promote the scheme . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be conscious of time . if my right hon . and learn Friend will forgive I , other have to speak , and I be go to try to stick to Madam Deputy Speaker ' s prescription . I apologise to he . I will quickly raise the case of three of my constituent — Gareth Lloyd , Joe Green and Karen Duberry — all of whom have be face terrible imposition . I be sure many colleague have see similar case . Gareth Lloyd say that " face and now pay the loan charge have mean year of stress with a constant stream of demand and letter from HMRC … when I should have be enjoy watch my young family grow up I ' ve be constantly at fear of potentially lose our home . " Joe Green say " nine year of worry , nine year of anxiety , nine year of not know what to expect from HMRC other than continual bullying tactic to try and extort monie from I " with threat . Karen Duberry say that she be " shock and alarmed when I learn of the loan charge . I feel alone , scared , threaten and worry for I and my family … the mental stress on I and my family have be immense " . we know that because at the far extreme of these case , people have commit suicide , but there be many other problem between the extreme . all these people deserve a process that be well , fair , open and reasonable and that go after those who originally promote the scheme . these people be under the impression — as be the case — that the scheme be quite legal . the important point be that HMRC conjure up a retrospective process to deal with this , which be appal . historically , that have not be do — you deal with where you be at the beginning — but HMRC feel it have lose a whole load of taxation and do not want to blame itself . what it do be to go after those individual , threaten they and cajole they . an inquiry take place , but it now appear that the Morse review be not entirely independent . I give some evidence , as many do , to the original inquiry , and I assume at the beginning that it be completely independent . in fact , it turn out that it be not . HMRC get to see element of the report before it be even publish , which be astonishing to I as we be give a clear understanding that it be to be independent . there be much more that need to be do , and that review be by no mean the end of it . I be surprised when my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who be the Minister at the time , say : " we … have plan under way to crack down far on the promoter of these avoidance scheme . " it turn out that he do not . why be a Minister allow to stand at the Dispatch Box to make a statement draft by civil servant , which we then find out be not right ? he be not right : HMRC be go after the individual , not those who promote the scheme . as we have discover , HMRC have no legal basis for do that , so the whole thing have become a terrible mess . I congratulate those who bring forward this debate , because there be so much more here that need to be say . I just want to conclude by say that this have be go on for too long , with law change retrospectively , denial about what HMRC be do , bullying and intimidation , and a failure to come clean about the process engage in all of this . it be so familiar ; as the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) say , we be in the middle of the problem over the Post Office , and we see the same thing in that process . we have be see the same denial , protection and pretence with the loan charge for a long time . it be very clear now , and I hope the Minister agree , that we be long past the point where we need to start recognise that this be not the way for any Government Department to behave when deal with an issue such as this that have clearly create a huge problem . my constituent and many other who have face this issue should not be pursue in a way that treat they from the start as a criminal , rather than as somebody involve in something that HMRC never say be illegal at the time , but be now pretend that it be . I hope the Government will now recognise that we do not want to see a repeat of what happen with the Post Office scandal as a result of hmrc ' s bad behaviour . I start by thank the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) for secure this important debate , and by acknowledge the many thousand around the country affect by the loan charge . I know that some of they be in the Gallery today , include some of my own constituent . I pay tribute to their dignity and determination in pursue their cause . I will focus first and foremost on the fundamental unfairness of the loan charge , but also , as have be mention , on the Morse review and the need for great transparency . I have be contact by a number of people whose life have be turn upside down by the charge . while it be not possible for I to give voice to all of they today , I would like to share one story that I think speak to the experience of many . " I have be force to raise huge sum , include borrow from my mother and by borrow huge sum against my home , leave I in a position where I can not plan for my own or my family ' s future . the impact on my mental and physical health and my relationship have be huge and I be in genuine fear for my future wellbee if HMRC be allow to continue unencumbered . " another constituent in great distress tell I how she make the difficult decision to have an abortion , base on concern about affordability stem from the loan charge . combine with the number of suicide that have take place , this paint a truly harrowing picture of the impact this unfair charge be have . the report by the loan charge APPG publish in 2020 find that there be direct interference in the Morse review by both the Treasury and HMRC , and that both organisation make clear attempt to direct the review from the outset . give the tragic impact of the charge and the public interest in this matter , surely it be time the Government set up a genuinely independent review that achieve a fair and final resolution for all . I shall end by raise a final point about the need for great transparency . late last year , one of my constituent be successful in overturn the Information Commissioner ' s decision to allow the Treasury not to release the final draft of the loan charge review . the original freedom of information request be make in December 2020 , yet over three year later the material have still not be release . my constituent tell I that their attempt to obtain the documentation have be meet with what they consider to be " deliberate attempt " to avoid FOI obligation , include be tell by the Treasury that the information have be destroy , then that it could not be find and eventually that it be prohibitively expensive to locate it . such lack of transparency undermine trust in our institution and must be address . I hope the Minister can assure I that the Government will look into this particular matter and take all reasonable step to ensure that the information be release as soon as possible . with over 50 , 000 people directly impact and the tragic death of 10 people , it be vital that we do everything we can to find a fair and final resolution to the loan charge scandal . to gain public trust , far great transparency from HMRC and the Treasury be need . most importantly , we need a new and genuinely independent review to take place . if , as Ministers insist , the law be clear in 2010 , it would have be entirely unnecessary to have the 2017 legislation open up previous tax year , because my constituent who have be affect by this mis - sell scandal — for that be what it be — make their tax arrangement entirely clear in those year and be unchallenge by HMRC within the proper window available . it be entirely unnecessary , and the reality be that the vendetta that HMRC be now pursue , notwithstanding the obfuscation of the write answer to parliamentary question , be exclusively against the victim of that mis - sell scandal . happy be those member of this Parliament who be not here in 2017 and do not vote in favour of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill of 2017 , which contain the measure that be now torture so many of our constituent . we be culpable for not have spot , not have ask about and not have examine the consequence and implication of the measure that be bring before we . it be a measure that cry foul against every tenet of proper legislation with , first , its retrospective aspect , and secondly , its take away from our constituent the right to appeal to a tribunal with an administrative or quasi - judicial process to have their case fairly consider . it make HMRC both judge and jury in their case — and what a judge and jury it turn out to be ! we now come to another of these debate in which we recount the late injustice and enumerate the rise tally of suicide , and the Minister will in all probability make the same speech as his predecessor make the last time . I ask hon . member : what be the point ? the point , as I see it , be that it afford a recur opportunity for hon . member to recant what the House do when it create this injustice . Drip by drip and Member by Member , the tally will increase , and ultimately it will reach the public consciousness . the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) serve on the all - party group , and we be indebted to he for his chairmanship when he be in the chair of the group . he have be hound over the last few week and find himself in a very unfortunate position for be the postal affair Minister at the height of the Horizon scandal , notwithstanding the fact that he be lie to on an industrial scale . nevertheless , it have be very uncomfortable for he to have the charge that he do not ask the right question , he do not pursue it enough and he do not spend time with the victim . let that be an object lesson to we and to all those Ministers who stand at the Dispatch Box give we flannel and peddle the fiction that the limited inquiry be in some way independent . my advice to my hon . friend the Minister today be this : set aside the brief that you have be give , and end this debate by just say that you have sit here , you have hear what we have say and you be go to go away and ask the awkward question and spend time with the victim . because ultimately this will reach the public consciousness — we may even have our own tv drama ; the reality be that there be plenty of scope for such a drama — and when it do reach the forefront of public consciousness , we will rue the day that we do not take the action when we could . that be a phenomenally good speech . I also congratulate the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) on secure this debate and for his powerful and passionate speech , which be very impressive . I also thank the all - party group on the loan charge and taxpayer fairness and the Loan Charge Action Group for their diligent work on this very serious issue , and indeed my own constituent who have suffer greatly from this total injustice . on 7 July 2021 I state in this House that the loan charge be go to be the next Post Office scandal , and just look where we be with that today . will it take another modern form of the stock by way of a further ITV drama to expose and publicly humiliate HMRC or the Government into some action on the loan charge scandal ? unfortunately , it would seem so , but I certainly hope not . as other have say , a vitally important part of the loan charge scandal be that these ordinary people be contract worker do a job of work for somebody or some organisation that simply need their service . most importantly , they be worker , and as worker they be entitle to protection under the agency rule . the agency rule determine that their employer — be that the agency , the umbrella company or another body in the supply chain , or the end client itself — be liable to deduct the correct amount of paye and pay that to HMRC at the time , before pay the worker their salary . these company simply do not do that . HMRC be well aware of the arrangement and , as have be say , do not pursue for tax any of the entity as the worker ’ employer . HMRC be also well aware many year down the line that it be legally out of time to do so . HMRC have , and still have , a duty to establish who the employer be and who be direct , control and supervise the worker who have be supply . it have not do so ; it have fail time and again to do so . hence the invention of the retrospective loan charge to get around that very inconvenient and uncomfortable fact . it be entirely unacceptable to continue to hound ordinary worker with no right or fund for legal defence against such a powerful Government body as HMRC . this have all the hallmark of the Post Office scandal . what be really vexatious and concern be that HMRC continue to hoodwink mps into believe that it be go after the promoter who put the worker into this abominable position , when we all know it be not do so . a further issue be that these group of company — these promoter — that sell arrangement to freelancer have not only not be ask to pay a penny of the dispute tax , but their arrangement — " arrangement " — have cause the death of poor soul who be so distressed by the way they have be hound and criminalise by HMRC that they take their own life . we all know that HMRC have state that a total of 10 people have take their life over this scandal ; the figure be likely to be far more in reality , in this awful and unravel scandal . the number of people affect by the Post Office scandal be likely to be dwarf by the number affect by the retrospective loan charge scandal , purely and simply because of the number of people affect — between 60 , 000 and 70 , 000 at the last count by HMRC , with the figure likely to rise far higher . too many ordinary people be face huge bill , and many of they have be suffer untold distress for many year , and in some case personal harm and indeed suicide because of this ongoing retrospective loan charge scandal . the whole thing be an absolute mess . I be sure that Ministers must by now be mindful of all these serious issue , so will the relevant finance Minister and the Government now speedily commit themselves to finally commission a truly independent review to deal with this mess wholly of HMRC ' s own making , and thereby allow we as mps and parliamentarian to help to right this grievous wrong ? this be such an important issue for our constituent and I be very grateful to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) for bring it to the House . it have be mention that , give the recent example that have expose excess of power in public body , it be only right that the loan charge and the way it be infringe on the right of individual be debate in this House . one particular case in my constituency bring this issue to my attention , and it highlight several problem with the way HMRC have try to combat disguised renumeration scheme through the loan charge . the way in which HMRC be retrospectively try to obtain income tax and national insurance contribution raise important question . the first of they be that the law on tax should be knowable and accessible to the people to which it apply . base on the case that I have see in my constituency , that be clearly not the situation . many individual who work for agency simply do not know that their pay would one day be subject to a dispute tax argument with HMRC , because the loan charge do not exist or because they be mis - sell such scheme by hire agency . add to this fundamental trespassing on the right of individual be the fact that we can not continue with the situation whereby a public body be pursue retrospective action against our constituent with they have no right to due process . first , I thank the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) for his kind word about my time as postal affair Minister . my hon . friend be make the point that this be a really good example of why retrospective policy be not a good idea . there be the fact that HMRC need to use its investigatory power , which outstrip those of policeman , proportionately ; the fact that it should be go after the practitioner and promoter of these scheme , which it can do under the Rating ( Coronavirus ) and Directors Disqualification ( dissolve Companies ) Act 2021 that I pass a few year ago ; and the fact that it should not be go after contractor , consultant and self - employ people who the Government and many Government institution treat as tax evader as the default , as be see with the 3 million exclude during covid who feel they do not get the support that other do . that bring I to one of my main point . these be ordinary worker . these be our constituent . they be not fat cat ; they have not get offshore bank account . they be not like that . these be ordinary member of the public who desperately need our help . that bring I on to another point , which be how HMRC be handle these case . it be not unfair to say that it be hardly a lesson in how to handle dispute resolution or customer service . one of my constituent receive a letter some four or five year ago tell they that HMRC be withdraw the information notice it have send in the post . as far as my constituent be concern , that be the end of the matter and they could get on with their family life . there be no contact for a further three year , but now HMRC have inform my constituent that withdraw an information notice be not the same as withdraw its concern and that , in any event , it be not aware of the reason for the withdrawal in the first place and it would like to revisit the matter . I say to Ministers that the situation be untenable . HMRC can not have the power to suddenly request ten of thousand of pound from individual , appear to drop a case and then revive it on a whim , without any explanation at all . that be an exercise in excessive power by a public body . we should be go after the dispute tax from those who promote and operate the scheme and who make huge amount of money do so . I understand that might be more complex , but that should not be a barrier . we should be protect ordinary worker from abuse of power and pursue those opaque and monied body that seek to game the system . I will end on that note . I echo the point that these be ordinary people we be try to assist . it be time that the Government act . I begin by thank the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) for bring forward this incredibly important debate . the issue have be live for far too long , and the damage that have be inflict on thousand of ordinary worker — whether freelancer , contractor or temporary worker — and their family by the loan charge be distress . the comparison that he draw with the Horizon scandal be real . this be a serious injustice , but what be different from the Horizon scandal be that at least the Horizon victim have the appearance of justice . it may not have be justice , but they have the appearance of it . as the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) make clear , HMRC have persist and act as judge , jury and executioner with a ruthlessness that I can not believe . I have be in meeting with HMRC and it have advise I , " we will never put people under enormous pressure . we will not take more than 50 % of their disposable income to recover the cost , " but that be simply not true . the ferocity with which it have go after my constituent and the amount of money it have demand be eye - watering — it be completely impossible for my constituent to meet its demand . a simple point occur to I : the real similarity between the Horizon programme and this situation be that those who be prosecute under Horizon and put in jail and so on have it put about by the Post Office that they be greedy people who have steal money , so the public at first do not have any sympathy . similarly , in this matter , HMRC have basically say that they be greedy people evade tax that other people then have to pick up and pay . the public still have not pick up on that . these people be not do that — that be the key point — and break through that will get public support for something to change . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point . not only be the victim of the loan charge victim of mis - selling ; they be now the victim of HMRC ' s pursuit of they for every penny they can possibly earn . that be not just now , but for future year , so that point be incredibly important . it be important to remember that we have an opportunity a number of year ago to write off the retrospective element , with new clause 31 to the Finance Bill , which be support by the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group . unfortunately , because of the timidity of some member , that new clause be not put forward for a vote . that be deeply regrettable . it be important that I speak about my constituent , who be my main concern in all this . four year ago , I speak about the horrific plight of my constituent Doug Aitken , who be face a bill of £ 500 , 000 . to pay that off , he would lose his house and his car . as a self - employ person , he would lose his business , because he would be bankrupt . the Government simply do not listen . he be one of those who have successive complete and closed tax year that be reopen by HMRC , and he be be charge exorbitant , unjustifiable and unjustified rate for all the suppose earning he have secrete away . today I want to speak about another constituent of mine , Alan Geddes , who have a disposable income of £ 360 a month . the payment demand by HMRC from Mr Geddes be £ 783 a month for the next 12 year . that be not the only charge it be ask he to pay ; it be also ask he to pay £ 50 , 000 up front . the hon . Gentleman and many other colleague across the House have make analogy in their excellent speech between the horror of the Horizon Post Office it scandal and the scandal around the loan charge , which have affect so many of our constituent . I will share with he and the Chamber another analogy : be he aware that HMRC also use an apparently bombproof system from Fujitsu ? the hon . Gentleman make a very interesting point to which I think member from all part of the House will pay close attention . I thank he for do so . not only be hmrc ask for £ 50 , 000 up front , but it have put a £ 50 , 000 lien against Mr Geddes ' s home . although his disposable income have now drop below £ 360 a month because of the cost of living crisis , HMRC have suggest that perhaps they should renegotiate his term to bring the rate down to £ 361 . 13 . however , to get that new rate , he need to give HMRC another £ 50 , 000 . those other charge would then continue for a further 12 year . the question be : what planet be hmrc on ? these shocking figure exclude interest be add to allow the payment to be spread over 12 year . it be clear daylight robbery . minister in the Department have previously advise I that approximately 80 % of the £ 3 . 4 billion that HMRC have recover through disguised renumeration settlement between the Budget of 2016 and the end of March 2022 have be from employer . be I therefore correct in presume that that figure be £ 2 . 72 billion ? give that the sum that HMRC expect to be bring into charge from employer have already be exceed , why do it need to pursue loan charge customer for 100 % of the tax plus interest , plus accelerate payment notice penalty and plus inheritance tax , particularly when it be fully aware that customer have already suffer a 15 % to 20 % deduction on their earning through the mis - sell scheme ? additionally , I would like to learn why HMRC continue to pursue customer with loan from before December 2010 , give that Morse already pardon those with no open inquiry on the basis that the law be not clear . those key factor could all be address , because HMRC have the facility to amend its settlement term . it require no legislation or change in the law . I hope that the Minister will ask HMRC to apply the same treatment to those who have already settle . member across the House have be scream on this issue until we be hoarse . we have send repeat letter , include one send by 120 mp . we have have publication put out by the APPG and debate in this Chamber , but it be simply not enough . People be on the brink and in despair . if we be to prevent any more constituent from resort to suicide , we must urgently deal with this issue and grapple with it in a way that be not do with the Horizon scandal . rise — order . because some colleague have take slightly less than seven minute , I have a bit of leeway . I do not want speech to be extend massively , but if colleague wish to speak for perhaps a couple of minute more than seven , I would be content with that . may I join the congratulation to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) on secure this important debate ? this be why Parliament exist : we be here to seek redress of grievance from an overmighty executive who abuse their power . this be a classic example of the state abuse its power through aggressive tax collection . why be it that in the Bible the tax collector be see as the villain on almost every occasion the tax collector be refer to ? it be because the tax collector seek to extract more than be by law allow . in our system , it have always be the case that the job of the tax collector be to raise the tax set out by Parliament — not a penny more , nor a penny less . it be not for the tax collector to squeeze out extra from people if that be not intend . we know from this discussion that HMRC do not think there be anything wrong with these scheme early on . how do we know that ? as the right hon . Gentleman point out , it employ people use these scheme . so we be say either that HMRC be so incompetent that it have no idea about the basis on which it be employ people , or that actually , because it save some money , it think these scheme be licit . the other thing we know be that constituent of our send in tax return acknowledge that they be use these scheme , and HMRC do not question they . then , in a panic , worry about the tax receipt that be come in — 2010 be an important date when tax receipt be very low and the country have an enormous deficit — a squeeze get put on , and that squeeze become retrospective . but retrospective legislation be basically unconstitutional except in extraordinary circumstance . whenever there be any retrospective part of legislation , it have to be specifically approve and clear by the Attorney General before it can be bring before the House . why be that ? it be to safeguard the constitutional right that people know the basis of the law under which they be operate . that be surely proper , because with retrospective legislation people who have behave properly and honestly and follow the law that Parliament have pass suddenly find that they have not . that be entirely unfair and unreasonable , and it could criminalise any of we for action we commit year ago . do my right hon . friend agree that in all these scandal , the presumption of innocent until prove guilty have be turn on its head , and we see the presumption of guilt and one be unable to prove one ' s innocence ? to use a biblical analogy , this be not so much David versus Goliath ; it be David versus an army of Goliaths , and David have have the slingshot take away from he . my hon . friend be absolutely right . hmrc , through the amalgamation of the Inland Revenue and Customs and Excise , have extraordinary power . Customs and Excise historically maintain extraordinary prerogative power — much great , actually , than those of the Inland Revenue — and the come together of those two body have bring a more aggressive culture to our tax system . it be a culture that assume that taxpayer , follow the law as they understand it and indeed as HMRC understand it , may be do something wrong . that be a bad principle under which to operate . member need , as we be , to look after the interest of constituent who be be affect in that way . we need to allow people to know that their tax affair be clear after an inquiry have not be open . that be set out : there be a 12 - month period in which tax return remain open and a seven - year period under which people have to keep record , and yet we have pass retrospective legislation that overturn all of that . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) be absolutely right that those of we who be here in 2017 should be appal that this get through without be notice and without be stop . what he say to the Minister be absolutely right : we should look carefully at the ministerial response . HMRC be in the odd situation of be a non - ministerial Department . it be not properly accountable . with most Departments , the Minister say " go " and — at least theoretically — they goeth . with HMRC , its independence be such that it can effectively ignore ministerial control . but that should work two way . if the Minister can not control HMRC , he should not read out the rubbish that it provide for he to read out from the Dispatch Box , and he should be well aware of the warning give of Ministers who have either be willing to read out thing that turn out in future to be untrue , or not ask the right question . I very much look forward to the speech by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , because he have the advantage of independence . not have go native by virtue of be in the Treasury , he can bring — I hope — an independent mind to this . bear in mind that there will be an election this year , and who know what may happen in that and what responsibility may fall upon his shoulder , it be really important to know that the opposition be on the side of proper constitutional practice . the whole point of our system be that we come here , as we have do since the 13th century , to seek redress of grievance for our constituent when they be badly treat . this be a classic example , and government be absolutely appalling at answer it . People have mention the Post Office , but it be not just that ; it be Hillsborough and infect blood . for some strange reason , government have a desire to defend the mistake of long since past administration , and they do that to the disadvantage of constituent today . I hope that on this occasion it will not happen , or at least it will not continue to happen . there be an ability to set it right , and there be an ability for the House to do more . if HMRC be not produce document , we have thing up our sleeve that the House can do to continue to exert pressure — the Backbench Business Committee can allow Humble Address motion to be table — but it would be so much well if the Minister at the Dispatch Box , who be one of the most able and intelligent minister in this current Administration , be to grasp this and deal with it to save our constituent from further pain — and , frankly , put HMRC in its box . it be a pleasure to agree with so many right hon . and hon . member , which I must say be a novel experience for I . look at the history of this scandal , it remind I of the time when many of our constituent be claim work tax credit . sometimes those credit be overpay , and they would receive letter from the Revenue , which be standard letter but have individual clause stitch together to give the semblance of have be personalise . one such sentence be etch on my memory . it go like this : " even though we tell you that your assessment be correct , it be not reasonable for you to believe so . " [ Laughter . ] thank you . this , though , be an extremely serious matter . as I think about how I would approach the debate , I think that I would tell the story of my constituent , Rob Cowen , who be a victim of the loan charge scandal . I do , however , speak today for other colleague in Plaid Cymru , and particularly my right hon . friend the Member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , who can not be here , though she would wish to be . while some people gain financially through the use of umbrella organisation and service , Rob Cowan be use the scheme on advice as a simple accounting service so that he could be pay legally and conveniently , as so many other people find . he have seek advice from accountant , who assure he that the product he be use be legal ; only later do he find out that it be not . Rob have suffer immensely since then . back in 2011 when he be in his early 50 , he be consider wind down his business , change his work pattern , move from full - time to part - time work and enjoy the fruit of his work over many decade . he then start receive communication from HMRC , inform he that he be liable to pay back thousand of pound due to the loan charge . that force he back into full - time work , but that aggravate a repetitive strain injury that he have develop over the course of his work life . eventually , that lead he to become disabled , so he could no long work and make an income to pay back the money due under the loan charge . at the age of 63 , Rob find himself unable to work and unable to pay back the money that allegedly he owe , and he face a very bleak future . he now have no saving and no ability to work . he can not pay HMRC the money that it say he owe . he have suffer psychological and physical trauma from this ordeal , as have so many . to give just one example , which I be sorry to say be common , he tell I recently that he be unable to switch on the heating during this very cold period . he can not afford it , as so many people have find . I thank the hon . gentleman for share that powerful example . I have constituent in my Livingston constituency who have suffer and who have come to see I . as the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) speak about the other scandal that we have face and challenge in this place , I be remind of the Primodos scandal , and the word of Baroness Cumberlege , " first do no harm " . it should be the duty of the Government of the day , and of this place , to first do no harm to our constituent . when harm be do and policy be wrong , as this one have be prove to be , surely it be the duty of Government and HMRC to take some responsibility , and not to put the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , my constituent and other through hell before they get the justice that they need . how many more folk need to die before this will be sort out ? I thank the hon . Lady for that powerful point . it be an old saw , but justice delay be justice deny , which be quite obviously the case in this matter . my constituent also point to the stigma associate with what have happen to he , as other right hon . and hon . member have point out . he feel that he be in the wrong ; he be be make to feel that he do something wrong but he act in good faith throughout , seek expert advice and follow the advice that he be give , because he have no intention of do anything wrong . in contrast , as have be point out — I will finish on this point — the owner of the company that run these scheme have make considerable sum of money . Rob feel that he have be deny a fair hearing , while other people have get away with it . as the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) say , HMRC be judge , jury and executioner in its own case , which be obviously wrong . People be receive retrospective punishment even though they act in good faith . there must be justice for Rob Cowen and the other victim of these scheme and of HMRC ' s behaviour . I join the call on the Minister to act quickly . in the interest of time I will try not to repeat all the self - evident truth that have be state throughout this debate . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) make a characteristically fluent exposition of the case . everyone , from he through to my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , reiterate essentially the same point : all of a sudden , in the last few week , the public have become aware that huge state or quasi - state organisation put their own interest ahead of the interest of the public and , unfortunately , that be not abnormal behaviour . the right hon . member for East Antrim quite rightly characterise that as be repeat in a high - handed and insensitive way by HMRC but , frankly , I think he understate the point . why do I think that ? because HMRC have refer itself to the Independent Office for Police Conduct over those 10 suicide and some other attempt suicide and self - harm . when deal with Government Departments , that be as close as we get to a confession . those at HMRC know they have do wrong , and they have know it for some time . they have know that the consequence of this have lead to death and enormous harm to people , yet they have continue to do the same thing over and again . how on earth do they justify that when they look at themselves in the mirror ? the only thing I can come up with be that HMRC think this be a deterrent . clearly , it will not raise that much money — three quarter of people will go bankrupt — so maybe it be a deterrent . if it be , that bring we to the next question that the right hon . member for East Antrim raise : why do it not go after the promoter ? the promoter exact 18 % to 20 % of the income of these people in carry out this scheme , so there be a large sum of money there — someone say hundred of million . it may even be that the victim of the scheme — that be the right word — think that be the tax deduction , because it be of that order of magnitude . why have HMRC not do that ? we know that many of the organisation use those promoter and contractor be state organisation , include HMRC itself . that might be a reason — it do not want to embarrass itself . it might be because of that that it be complicit in covert advice to those contractor at the beginning . it be entirely possible that HMRC approve it , and those document be hide away in HMRC . what be the answer ? my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) be not quite right in say that HMRC be completely protect . there be one body — the Public Accounts Committee — that can get at this . one of the thing that should come out of this debate be that the Public Accounts Committee should look at the document — not the number — associate with those early contract and see why they be do . that would be one way to get past the assertion make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) that we can not deliver a practical outcome . that be one practical outcome that we can deliver . the second practical outcome we can deliver among ourselves be to address the fact that this be retrospective taxation . as my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset rightly point out , our country do not believe that people who undertake behaviour that be not illegal at one point in time should be prosecute if it become illegal in future . that apply in spade to taxis . one of the thing I want to do early on in our collective campaign be to move a motion in the House at the beginning of the Budget , under the general motion that be normally put , explicitly to ban retrospective taxation . let we guess what happen : since then , the Treasury have not move a general motion . we always get narrow finance motion , which make it difficult to change anything . I write to the Procedure Committee , which I gather be still concerned about this , to ask it to request the return of the general motion at the beginning of the Budget . then , we could actually put it to the House . back in those day , we probably do not have the 100 - plus supporter that we now have . today , we could probably carry that motion . I ask everyone take part in this debate to support that — I might write around and ask everyone — and to write to the Procedure Committee to try to get that correct . we can use our right of initiative , which we do not have much of anymore , to stop this explicitly . I agree entirely on the amendment of the law resolution . in fact , whenever I have speak on a Finance Bill since it stop be common practice to use it , I have say that we should have an amendment of the law resolution . I appreciate what the right hon . Gentleman say about the Procedure Committee . as a member of the Committee , I can tell he that we have look at this but , ultimately , it be the responsibility of the Government to make the change — they need to table the amendment of the law resolution . the previous Chancellor be clear that it be a small , technical change that he would not make . forgive I , but I have be here a long time . the Procedure Committee can do it — it can put it to the House and seek a Back - Bench motion . guess what ? we can move back - Bench motion that instruct the Government . some may remember that we do it on prisoner vote , and we win that day . it be about time that we exert our own right in this House on this matter . the last point I want to make be that this whole thing be , if not precipitate , then certainly make bad by the 1999 move by the Government with what be now know as IR35 . the complex rule associate with the IR35 trigger part of this behaviour pattern . what be interesting be that the behaviour of HMRC on IR35 pretty much mirror its behaviour on the loan charge . a large number of people out there , one of whom be in the Gallery today , have be oppress by HMRC , frankly . they have an argument over money , let we say £ 70 , 000 . they win in the first tribunal , so HMRC appeal . they win in the upper tribunal , so HMRC appeal again and take they to court . the court , of course , then send they back to the beginning and they do it again . the House will remember a previous Backbench Business debate when we start the action against slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation — in which oligarch use their huge financial power to destroy people . what be hmrc do ? precisely the same thing . the Government be now move to stop oligarch do what they do themselves , so we need to look at that too . IR35 be a disgrace . when a state organisation with infinite resource — actually , your tax money and mine — use that power to overrule and reduce the ability of ordinary citizen to protect themselves , I be afraid it be behave in a way similar to how country behind the iron curtain use to behave . my right hon . friend ' s power of forensic analysis be second to none , but do he agree that it be actually slightly bad than that ? he be entirely right in what he say , but there be also case , particularly for those affect by the loan charge , where people have allow themselves , against their well instinct and judgment , to make a false confession of guilt . they have go through the process and end up have to pay an extortionate amount of money and think the matter settle ; then , HMRC have come back and go after even more . yes , my hon . friend be right . I be afraid that one of the characteristic of miscarriage of justice — I have forget who raise this point early , so please forgive I for not reference they — be that the victim at the beginning be probably the most unpopular person in society . they be think to be guilty and may even doubt themselves over whether they have make a mistake . these people , by and large , have be compel to do what we be talk about . they have be offer a job on these term only , so they have have no choice , but then they think , " well , maybe I should have know . " then , like the sub - postmaster , they be persuade by the people deal with they that they be the only one . until our campaign start , all these people feel that they be the only one , or one of a few nasty tax evader — not tax avoider — so they give in . of course , it be like the Gestapo : confession never save you ; it be a step to execution . that be how it work , I be afraid . that be true of all big organisation full of people who be well - intentione , but who defend the institution . that be why , answer my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset , it go on through Government after Government after Government . it be not the Ministers who do this , but the member of the institution . I get all of that and my right hon . friend be right , but there be a peculiarity about HMRC , with its power and lack of accountability . it do not publish account , and Ministers come and go ; they do not really run that Department . that really be the issue . bad as it might be elsewhere , it be astonishingly bad now because of hmrc ' s behaviour . my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset list a few of the other case , from Hillsborough onwards , so it do come back to that . even the Department for Work and Pensions , the Department my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) use to run , have its own police force , in effect , and its own prosecutor . that be one of the clue . this will come back time and again with HMRC and other . he be right that we need to hold this organisation to account . it serve the people , not the Government of the day . this Parliament be the institution that serve the people and , start with the Public Accounts Committee , we should be hold HMRC to account , but there be many other who should get involve . I have give a completely different speech from the one I intend to give , because everybody else say everything before I rise , but I will finish with a point I certainly want to make . the BBC once refer to I as an old war horse , so I will give the Minister some old war horse advice , have be there once or twice myself . one of the lesson of the last few week be that Ministers — junior Ministers in particular — be very easily lead to give dead bat answer in the Chamber . they be the answer hand to they by their official , and they have no other answer to give , unless they want to end their career on the spot — I have do that twice , but never mind . this be not about his answer today , but the simple truth be that unless he want to be see in the same light as Ministers in the past — maybe he want to be a future leader of the Liberal Democrats — he need to go back to his department and say , " I want to see the truth . here be the thing you ' ve do . why do you not tell the House of Lords why you be not pursue the promoter of these scheme ? why do you tell people you only go for half their disposable income when you ' re not do that ? " get the answer , Minister . then , when you next come back to the Chamber — and you will have to come back to the Chamber again — you can give we the truth . like everyone else in the Chamber today , I have constituent who have be affect in a way that be incredibly distressing , so I understand completely the howl of outrage sound across the House today . I want to deal with process , though . some hon . member here take part in the debate in 2018 . I would like people to read the speech make in that debate by my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) . I be the shadow Chancellor then , and she be in my shadow Treasury team . speak from the Opposition Front Bench , she set out exactly case after case , as hon . member have do today , but there be one additional case we draw on which have not be mention today — a case in which , because of cut to local council and elsewhere , staff have be lay off and then rehire on this basis by public body , which be particularly shocking . let I read the ministerial response that be give then , because I think we should learn from it . the then Economic Secretary say : " although … I have tremendous sympathy for those face large tax bill , it be unfair to let people get away with not pay the tax they owe . there be support for people who have use the scheme and now find themselves in difficult situation , which require those affect to approach HMRC and bring the matter to a close . " — [ Official Report , 20 November 2018 ; Vol . 649 , c . 295WH . ] that be the ministerial response . I do not think we can tolerate a similar ministerial response today , because that lead to immense human suffering , include , as some have say , some people lose their life . many of they do approach HMRC and they do try to negotiate deal , but there be no element of clemency and no understanding of the individual plight of those people . as a result , many of our constituent suffer badly . I just want to move on and try to get some resolution . I hope that we and the Government can agree today on review . that review should be immediate and time - limit in month , not year . it should be truly independent , with its independence assure by the victim . it should propose a specific range of resolution , which will have to include some element of compensation for what people have suffer . the review should look at where the compensation should come from . I think it should come not from from other taxpayer , but from a levy on those who promote the scheme , and perhaps some element of the finance and accountancy sector that be involve up to their neck , to be frank . that be my first point . I also think that we need to review our own role in this , and in what have happen over time . I agree with the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) that not only should the Procedure Committee examine the House ' s role , but the Public Accounts Committee should look into how we have arrive at current situation . let I give two example of the background to all this . HMRC have come in for considerable criticism today , and I agree with much of it . what I say now be not in mitigation of HMRC ' s role , but an attempt to gain some element of understanding of what have be go on there . HMRC be , rightly , under pressure from all of we , on both side of the House , to tackle tax avoidance and evasion . some of we have lead campaign over the last 20 year or so to try to get HMRC to work on that effectively , and I pay tribute to the Government for put it under pressure to tackle the tax gap . they be the first Government to identify a tax gap of £ 38 billion , or whatever the amount be ; I disagree with the figure , but at least we have a target to aim for . however , at the same time , over those 20 year , both party have excel in a dutch auction to establish the extent to which HMRC ' s staff level can be cut . I can understand a wish to reduce staffing , but there be well way of do it , and for a while the way in which it be do at HMRC be fairly brutal . that result in redundancy scheme whereby a whole wave , a generation , of expertise be lose , and it have an effect on the culture of HMRC . accord to my understanding , HMRC look for short cut and a way of meet the demand for it to tackle tax avoidance and evasion and the tax gap , and I think that this be one of the short cut that it invent . in latter day , there would probably have be wise head in HMRC itself to suggest that this be not the route to go down because it would bring about more problem than solution . however , a culture of secrecy and protectionism have develop in HMRC , and we need to understand that if we be to tackle this properly as an institutional failing . secondly , we need to look at the role that the House play . I have be go back to the year 2017 , and try to remember what be happen in the House at that time . some member will recall that there be not a normal process for the Finance Bill , because the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , who be then the Prime Minister , have assure we all that there would not be a general election — I think she assure we of that five time in the House — go for a walk in Wales , come back , and declare an election . so the finance measure be throw into the wash - up procedure , which , as member will know , mean political party sit down to decide what measure be urgent and must be pass . it be agree that the Finance Bill would go through in a single day , and as a result of that , this measure be introduce . I should like the Public Accounts Committee and other to look at how that process work and how it do not work . the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden make an extremely valid point , which we make about every Finance Bill , or Budget Bill , that come forward . when the Government introduce the " no amendment to law " procedure , that tie the hand of the House when it come to what it could open up , what debate it could have and what amendment it could table . that be introduce by — Hammond . yes , by Lord Hammond . I think it be almost unprecedented . as I say , it tie the hand of the House , even when it come to far investigate issue relate to the Budget and Finance Bills . I also think that we need to look at the process whereby Ministers and Opposition be able to question impact assessment and how they be develop , as well as the independence of those assessment . I still find it problematic that impact assessment be prepare largely by the Department and the ministerial team that be promote the legislation involve , rather than its be do independently . have there be an independent impact assessment in this case , and time for a proper debate and for amendment as well , the House would probably not have agree to take this course . when I look back , I think that the implication should have be draw to the attention of the whole House . the impression give be that this would be focus on a small number of " hard case " tax avoider or evader , and their scheme promoter . I agree with nearly everything that the right hon . Gentleman be say , but why can we not address it now ? why can we not go back and put it right ? the point I be make be about enable we to do that . I hope that some of the lesson be learn be learn not just by the whole House but by the Government as well , whichever party be in power . as soon as we introduce measure to fetter the role of individual member of the House or the House as a whole , we open up the opportunity for mistake to be make , because policy be not test effectively in democratic debate in this Chamber . I welcome the fact that review be to happen , but believe they should happen as a matter of urgency , if for no other reason than because I do not want to be here again in a few year ' time — we be now in 2024 , and I do not want to be here again in 2026 , 2027 or 2028 — and find that we be in the same situation as we be in 2019 . I do not want to find that more people have suffer and , worryingly , that more people may not be with we as a result of this because they have take their own life . there be an element of urgency about rectify this issue , and do it with compassion and , in many instance , with clemency . that will enable we to focus properly on tackle tax avoidance and evasion , and also the institutional arrangement that exist to enable that to happen . we need to have a thorough debate in the House about our regulatory mechanism , especially with regard to the accountancy and finance sector . it have be refer to many time this afternoon , but the number of time in the last few week that I have speak here about the Post Office scandal be well know , and it have rightly dominate our headline . however , the question that we have probably not address enough be " why ? " there be clearly parallel between why we have address the Post Office scandal and the reason for the encouraging speech we have hear this afternoon . if there be one thing that the british people hate more than anything else it be injustice , and it be the injustice of the loan charge scandal that make it so important . the stark reality be that the people who be affect by it have have their life ruin at just the same level , in term of financial as well as personal and family impact , as those affect by the Post Office scandal . I have be a member of the loan charge APPG since I be elect and have speak about it in the House . when the APPG run session , back when I be first elect , I hear harrowing account of people who be innocently catch up in this situation , include some of my constituent . my constituent Peter Phillips fall into a loan scheme on the advice of tax professional , as a means to be clear of and compliant with IR35 — you could not make it up . there be never any intent to avoid tax : it be simply a means to keep up the income and standard of live that his work as a contractor afford he . I have get to know Peter over the four year since my election . there be a time when I probably do not wake up in the morning without an email from Peter — he be watch this debate , too . he be a good , decent , kind and law - abide man , like so many of the constituent we have speak about this afternoon . if he have be aware of hmrc ' s view on these scheme , he would never have choose that route , but it be never make plain to he , either by the tax professional or by HMRC . in addition , he know many other contractor who have be work through loan scheme for many year without any issue with HMRC . Peter have settle his scheme with HMRC and , quite rightly , he be utterly aggrieve by the unfairness that , because he tell HMRC of what he have do , he become an easy target , whereas the other , who do not tell HMRC , be get away with it , so to speak . that be grossly unfair and unjust . in the loan charge scenario , HMRC be treat the loan as both income and loan to the individual ' s estate , and be therefore force Peter to pay income tax and inheritance tax on the amount . we have be talk about this issue for a while , and many of the victim be old . as they get old , they be think about plan for their family , so these issue become even more of a worry and even more pertinent . I do not think he should , but Peter be prepared to accept that he make an error of judgment . of course , he do not make an error of judgment . in my view , this be retrospective penalisation by HMRC . at the very least , HMRC be equally at fault in the well - know retrospective penalty that it impose . it seem wrong that Peter be pay a penalty for his honesty in disclose the scheme . if Peter understand that he have to accept some responsibility , why be HMRC not do the same and , at the very least , offer well settlement term to all those affect ? again , the parallel with the Post Office scandal be that many loan charge victim be not believe . these be complex tax arrangement in many case , and they be simply mis - sell to people . the individual who take out these arrangement be not tax professional . they just go along with what they be tell and , as we have hear , they have be financially crippled , way beyond any sensible , proportionate rationale . they need help . I agree with other member who say we have an opportunity to put this right . at the very least , these individual could be well support in three way . for a start , the loan should be exempt from IHT . where victim be subject to accelerate payment notice , which occur when HMRC think it have detect a tax avoidance scheme — the dispute tax be pay to HMRC — why be proper discretion not apply to the circumstance ? Minister , go back and look at the case and help the victim . finally , we should scrap or , at the very least , extend the residual tax waiver , which have be thoroughly unjust time and again . remember , if a person do not settle before 30 September , HMRC apply the penal loan charge and calculate the settlement , give a high figure . that , again , have disadvantage many , many people . we take decisive action last week , and many applaud we for that . be the extent of the loan charge expose , I think there would be a willingness in society to act . something should be do , and it can be do . remember that so many people be innocently catch up in this scandal . it have huge parallel with the Post Office scandal , and it should be put right . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) for set the scene , secure the debate and bring this matter to the Chamber . I believe that the job of this House be to act on behalf of our constituent . although HMRC be independent , it be a tool of the Government , so there have to be some accountability . with great respect , I believe that the ball will lie at the foot of the Minister , whom I be very fond of , at the end of this debate . he will tell we what be go to happen . the loan charge be a controversial tax policy that have affect thousand of employee , freelancer and contractor who be persuade or , in many case , coerce into use loan scheme to reduce their tax bill . the policy , introduce as a tax - relate measure in 2019 , give HMRC the ability to collect taxis go back to April 1999 . some people have face bankruptcy or depression , or even commit suicide , because of this . I ask the Minister how it be possible for HMRC to investigate individual for unpaid taxis go as far back as 20 year , give that its limit for hold information on taxpayer be only seven year . I can not quite get my head around that . how do a person challenge a 20 - year - old tax demand ? do HMRC breach the GDPR by hold such information for this length of time ? the loan charge policy be unjust and unworkable . it be a retrospective tax that violate the principle of legal certainty and the rule of law . it be a punitive measure that target innocent taxpayer who act in good faith and follow professional advice . it have result in disastrous consequence , cause immense hardship , distress and tragedy for thousand of people across the country . it be a retrospective tax of an insidious nature , because it change the rule after the game have be play . imagine win a football match 3 - 0 and then someone come and say , " by the way , you didn ' t win 3 - 0 . you lose 3 - 0 , and here ' s how it happen . " that be what have happen with the loan charge . it ignore the fact that many people use scheme because they have no choice , as they be force to do so by their employer or client . it disregard the fact that many people who use scheme do not benefit from they , as they pay fee , interest and taxis on their loan . we all seek professional advice daily in our job . if we follow it because we believe that it be legal and correct , we expect to be protect . in this case , people have not be protect . the loan charge be a retaliatory measure , and impose disproportionate and unreasonable demand on taxpayer who have already pay their fair share . it calculate the tax liability base on the total amount of loan , regardless of the actual income or profit derive from they . it add interest and penalty on top of the tax , inflate bill to astronomical level . it deny the right to appeal , challenge or settle tax dispute at a fair and independent tribunal . it force people to pay the tax in one lump sum , with no regard to their current financial situation or ability to pay . HMRC employ a process that have cause immense hardship and distress for thousand of people across the country . it have push people into debt , poverty and homelessness . it have ruin career , business and reputation . it have damage mental health , wellbeing and relationship . it have drive people to despair and suicide . accord to the Loan Charge Action Group , at least 10 people have take their own life because of the loan charge — a sobering figure . it have also identify 13 suicide attempt and 11 case of serious self - harm . we need to remember that these be not just number , but human life . these be constituent , colleague , friend and family member . how many more life will be lose before the Government listen and act ? there be an immense responsibility on the Minister and I hope , on behalf of our constituent , that he can give we reassurance on this issue . perhaps the most striking feature of all this be the brutality of HMRC ' s ruthless approach , which extend to cruelty . it be no stretch to say that people be effectively pursue to the grave and beyond , because bereaved family be ruthlessly pursue by HMRC for its demand . HMRC continue to be unyielde and relentless . it defend its action by claim that it have a duty to collect tax that be owe , and that it offer support and flexibility to those who be struggle . I believe that , above else , HMRC have a duty to be competent and to uphold its charter , which state that it will always act to " get thing right " . HMRC be in breach of its own charter , and the Minister need to come clean and give we some reassurance on that . the loan charge policy have fail on every level — fiscal and human . it have fail to collect the tax that it claim be due . it have fail to uphold the principle of justice and fairness that underpin our tax system . it have fail to protect the right and interest of taxpayer who have do nothing wrong . it have fail to prevent the harm and suffering that it have inflict on thousand of people . it have fail to acknowledge the error that have be make in implement and enforce the policy . it have fail to respond effectively to the recommendation and criticism that have be make by various body , include the House of Lords Economic Affairs Committee , the loan charge and taxpayer fairness APPG , and the independent review lead by Sir Amyas Morse . to conclude in adherence to the timescale that I be give , the loan charge be a policy that must be abolish . it be not too late for the Minister and the Government to do the right thing . it be not too late to end this injustice . it be not too late to save life . I urge the Minister and the Government to listen to the voice of reason , compassion and conscience , and to abolish the loan charge once and for all . the quick it be do , the well . what I be go to say will echo what have already be say this afternoon , but I want to add my voice to those of all member , and particularly to those of my constituent , because Bath constituent have be affect , and I want to help they as much as I can . the loan charge have destroy life . of course business and individual should pay their fair share in tax ; however , much damage have be do to people who act in good faith . they have be punish in an entirely inappropriate way , while those who be behind the scheme have get away scot - free . we must defend individual taxpayer , even if we think that they might have be ill advise in the first place . as we have hear , many be force into the scheme and do not have a choice . the Morse review conclude that the loan charge be not an appropriate or fair response to the use of payroll loan arrangement . it focus on loan make many year ago . they be not taxable under the law as it be understand at the time , and HMRC do not act against they . as enact , the loan charge mean that income tax must be pay as if the outstanding amount be part of the income tax in the current tax year . that do not account for change financial circumstance , which be particularly relevant for freelancer . those taxpayer pay much more than they would have if they have pay tax on the loan at the time . the loan charge ' s state aim be to end tax avoidance scheme , which be understandable . we all want to ensure that people pay their share ; however , the central injustice be that HMRC have pursue only the user of the scheme , who act in good faith , instead of those who recommend , promote and operate they . as a result , the loan charge be not even a deterrent . there have never be a conviction of those promote loan scheme that be now subject to the charge . the people who be compliant and disclose information on their tax return have be hit the hard . nearly all respondent to a survey by the loan charge and taxpayer fairness APPG report that the risk of payroll loan arrangement be not explain to they . now some face tax bill as high as £ 400 , 000 . family have break down , and there have be suicide . People be make to feel like criminal , despite have enter into the arrangement follow professional advice . many have say that as contractor they have little or no choice but to enter the scheme . many small and medium - sized company owner and director be also impact after follow professional tax advice . their staff now face redundancy . as well as the awful mental health impact , which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention , tax bill of hundred of thousand of pound leave some with no option but to go bankrupt . in many case , be declare bankrupt will prevent people from work again or pay tax . none of that would have happen have HMRC identify the issue early , publicise the risk of payroll loan scheme and penalise those behind they . the nightmare now unfold have echo of the Post Office scandal , where individual with no intent of wrongdoing be leave with impossible choice . livelihood and life be be destroy while those run the scheme , who know what they be up to , be get away with it . in addition , Government body be magnify the injustice , pursue people with intimidation and make they fearful . we should put that right , rather than make this wrong even more wrong . we urgently need a genuinely independent review of the whole loan charge , and a fair and final resolution for all . it be clear there be huge cross - party interest . it be in everyone ' s interest to finally resolve this , not just for those face overwhelming tax bill but for HMRC and the Government . the loan charge have not even achieve its intention . instead , it represent a policy failure that have leave thousand suffer . it be for all of we to act , and act quickly . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . I congratulate the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) on secure this important debate and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time for it . to paraphrase the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , this be an absolute mess . it be not an ethereal mess or something that be not happen to real people ; it be happen to real people and affect their life today . we have a situation where the promoter and operator have face no recourse . ten of thousand of people have have their life change and tear apart , but HMRC have not be hold to account for its behaviour . we must get to a point where there be a resolution . an end must be find , so that people do not have the sword of Damocles hang over they . first , on the promoter and operator , as have be say , there have not be any arrest or prosecution , never mind conviction , of anybody who have be promote or sell the scheme . look at debate from that time , the then Minister make it very clear that they be crack down on scheme , not the individual who use those scheme , and give commitment that they be chase promoter and operator . whether Ministers be lie to by official or knowingly come and tell we something that be incorrect , I do not know , but we should never have be give those assurance , which be patently false . there have be a consistent and concerted campaign of disinformation . mp talk on behalf of their constituent , as well as mp talk about the general issue , have be face with disinformation . whenever we have try to find out information , we have be tell stuff that be untrue , so I agree with the right hon . member for East Antrim that we need to redouble our effort . in fact , it be not even that we need to redouble our effort , because double nothing still make nothing ; we need to make effort to actually go after the promoter . it be not only those promoter who promote scheme back in the day , but the new one that be spring up , along with other individual and organisation that be take advantage of people who be catch up in the loan charge scandal . People be be tell , " oh , you ' re involve in the loan charge stuff — I can help you with that . " the person offer the help be then take their money and run for the hill . that be still happen today , but those folk and those organisation be not face any sanction for their behaviour . the Government need to ensure they be take action . in many case , the life of individual have be irrevocably damage . communication have be terrible and there have be contradiction throughout . every member who have talk about individual case have say that people have be give conflict information by HMRC . People be tell , " if you pay this much , it will be fine , " but then they be tell , " actually , we ' ve discover we want another 50 grand from you , " or , " we need this , " or , " we be go to serve an APN , " or , " we ' ve reopen tax year 2003 . " as constituency mp , we have all hear report that people have be tell conflict information . either every one of our constituent who have come to we about these issue be lie to we , or this be actually happen . I tend to assume that this be actually happen and that people have be mistreat by HMRC . that be a major concern . it be impossible even for mp to find out how much HMRC think people owe . there be time when I have have a settlement figure and an amount on behalf of a constituent , and then HMRC have chase that person again for other money later . as I say , it be a sword of Damocles hang over people . they can not ever get to the stage of resolution , because even if they settle , HMRC can come back and say , " sorry , we miscalculate . we be go to chase you for another year . " there be no point at which people can get out of this trap . I have speak to so many constituent who — whether it be because of the loan charge or other thing — reach the stage where they be terrify of open envelope that come through the door . those of we who be deal with constituent who be catch up in this know that they be terrify of open any official - look envelope , because it might be another demand for ten of thousand of pound . it might be another demand for money that they do not have . I be follow the hon . Lady ' s argument and agree very much with she . do she not agree that this be almost contrary to jurisprudence ? there be no double jeopardy , so a person can not be try more than once for the same offence , yet HMRC , on those occasion , seem to be do just that . I be concerned that we will not get to the end of this and that our constituent will never feel comfortable opening letter again . they will never get out of it . the Minister need to look not just at this issue as a whole , but at each individual case . it be very clear that there have be a disparity in the way that people have be treat . we be give the utmost reassurance that nobody would lose their home and nobody would be make bankrupt as a result of this . that be make utterly clear to we . I remember be in Westminster Hall when the Minister stand up and make those promise . those promise have dematerialise completely . I have a constituent on universal credit whose only asset be his home , and he have be ask for ten of thousand of pound — not ten of thousand of pound over a 12 or 20 - year period , but ten of thousand of pound today . the only way that he can get that money be to sell his house . that be directly opposite to what the Minister tell we at the time . we need to ensure that these change be make . finally , a resolution to this be the most important point for I . this need to end , so we need to get a resolution for individual or for the whole group . People need to be absolutely confident that they will never again get through the door a terrifying demand from HMRC about something that they think have be sort out . if we get a proper resolution for each of those individual — our constituent — we will have do our job as constituency mp . may I start by congratulate the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) and the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) — with whom I have work for many year on the Post Office Horizon scandal — and the hon . member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , on secure this important debate today ? I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the time and pay tribute to the member of the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group , other right hon . and hon . member here in the Chamber today , and the journalist who have investigate this issue so doggedly , include the Yorkshire Post . one of my core political belief be that , when one person have power over another , they must be subject to effective check and balance . that be a crucial part of our democratic system and at the heart of the freedom that we should all enjoy in a democracy such as ours . in my role as a lawyer , a trade unionist , a Member of Parliament , the Chair of a parliamentary Select Committee — the Business and Trade Committee — and now a member of the Shadow Cabinet , I have always contribute to ensure that the delicate balance of power be tilt towards the citizen and away from the powerful , and that unchecked power be challenge and bring into line . on this issue today , I recommit myself to that cause . that be why we in the Labour party believe a key principle of our tax system be that the Government should treat everybody fairly . it be why we support attempt to tackle tax avoidance scheme , include disguised renumeration scheme . however , HMRC ' s approach to the loan charge , which have affect ten of thousand of people to date , mean that the Government have fail in ensure that duty of fairness . as we have hear , ordinary people who be victim of mis - selling be face financial ruin and personal harm because of the way in which HMRC have pursue the loan charge . tragically , at least 10 people affect by HMRC ' s behaviour be know to have take their own life . the House should pause and reflect on that fact . we be talk about 10 people who be in such a state of despair — 10 people who have not only the thought of end their own life , but the will to do so . there be 10 family now grieve for the loss of a love one , all because of an administrative approach to tax collection . it could therefore not be clear that the Government ' s approach be not work . minister , include the Prime Minister when he be Chancellor , routinely refer to the 2019 Morse review and assert that there be nothing else to do . that review can not and must not be the final word on the matter or a roadblock to get a fair solution for people who have be victim of bad professional advice and mis - selling . while people in everyday job , from NHS worker to social worker , be be pursue by HMRC , and some taxpayer be be tell that they owe hundred of thousand of pound , the Government , as we have hear repeatedly , be do little to pursue the actual promoter behind mis - sell scheme . incredibly , HMRC have be issue few than two fine a year against the architect and enabler of fail tax avoidance scheme . how can the Government possibly justify such a light - touch approach for the promoter of such scheme while many of those people catch up in they suffer such serious harm ? over the course of this Parliament , the Labour party have repeatedly call on the Government to find a fair and effective way forward on the impact of the loan charge . there be no disagreement that such scheme be illegitimate and damaging . however , there have now be significant case and testimony to raise alarm bell in the head of Ministers about the nature of the current approach . in June 2020 , during consideration of the then Finance Bill , hon . member debate a new clause that would have force the Government to review the impact of the loan charge scheme , include the fairness with which HMRC implement the policy . unfortunately , the Government dismiss the proposal , claim that the Morse review go far enough . again , in December 2021 , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) table a new clause to then Finance ( no . 2 ) bill . it would have require the Chancellor to commission an independent review to consider HMRC ' s approach to the loan charge scheme and make recommendation on how it should be alter . that review would have require the Government to explain to this House what effort they have take to guarantee the review ' s independence . also , once the review have make recommendation , it would have require the Government to say , on a six - monthly basis , whether they agree with they , and if so , how effective they be on implement they . such a review could finally have offer a way forward . Labour vote in favour of that new clause and the review it propose in December 2021 , but sadly it be defeat by the Government . Treasury Ministers must realise that this issue be not go away . two year on from that vote , it be still clear that the Government ' s approach to the loan charge mean that ordinary people who be victim of mis - selling be suffer financial ruin and personal harm . minister and hon . member across the House have hear the harrowing account of people whose life have be ruin . that can not be what the Government envisage in the first place , and it must not be allow to continue . will the Treasury use this moment today to finally agree to commission a far truly independent review ? such a review could consider the approach of HMRC towards the ordinary people catch up in the loan charge scheme and far consider what action should be take against the architect and promoter of those scheme . that would be in the interest of restore fairness in our tax system . it could provide a way forward for the many thousand of people catch up in the loan charge and should end the devastating consequence suffer by the people involve to date . that be all we be ask for : an independent review — albeit one , as hon . member have say , that should be conduct quickly . finally , I urge the Minister to answer the specific question put to he today of whether HMRC official be be award bonus payment for the recovery of loan charge money . I urge the Government to learn the lesson of other scandal and to stop bury their head in the sand . I urge the Minister to be brave and to do the right thing . I would also like to thank the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) and other for secure the debate , and I be grateful for all the contribution from hon . member across the House . I would like to name they all , because it be important that we get on the record all those who have contribute . they include my right hon . friend the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) and for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) ; my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) ; the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ; and the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) , for Arfon ( Hywel Williams ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) ; and , indeed , other who have contribute to the debate . there be no doubt that we have hear today the strength of feeling on the issue . of course , I stand at the Despatch Box as not only the Minister — Financial Secretary to the Treasury — but a constituency MP who have also have representation on these issue from my constituent . the loan charge , alongside the wide issue of the use of disguised remuneration scheme , be a complex subject that be deeply impactful for many of our constituent . I can assure hon . member that the Government take the issue incredibly seriously and recognise the impact the loan charge have have . I will endeavour to address the point that have be raise in the debate , but I also wish to reassure colleague that many of the question they have ask , about disguised remuneration , Government policy , the loan charge and the approach and tone take by HMRC , be precisely the question that I have be ask official , for the very reason they have outline . I hope that during the course of my response I can provide some additional reassurance because , particularly in the light of recent circumstance , I want to make sure that I be make the right decision and ask the right question . tax authority and tax Ministers be never popular — it be the nature of the work — but I want to make sure that we act in a way that be reassuring , correct and fair to all taxpayer . I take that duty and responsibility very seriously . for example , I have have discussion and conversation with Jim Harra , the chief executive of HMRC , in the light of the Post Office scandal , about whether there be commission or perverse incentive for people that may lead to distort behaviour , and I have be reassure that there be not . this debate and these conversation be very useful , because they enable I to ask the right question of my official . I will not be able to give everybody the answer they want , and I be go to disappoint some people with this response , because I believe we have take the right approach . there be certain area where I will continue to ask question . I be aware that I will not be able to satisfy everybody today , but that will never stop I from continue to ask the right question . briefly , by way of context , because not everybody who be listen to this may be aware , the purpose of the loan charge be to ensure that user of disguised remuneration scheme pay their fair share of income tax and national insurance contribution . disguised remuneration scheme be contrive tax avoidance arrangement that seek to avoid income tax and national insurance on income by disguise it as some other type of payment , typically in the form of a loan that be wrongly allege to be non - taxable . hon . member should be in no doubt that , as have be recognise across the House , those scheme cost the Exchequer and other taxpayer hundred of million of pound a year . indeed , the total burden be to the tune of billion of pound . it be therefore right that , when we identify these completely inappropriate scheme , we take action . from the early day of the scheme , HMRC open thousand of inquiry into their use and challenge their operation through the court . in 2017 , the Supreme Court agree that the scheme do not work and have never work to legitimately avoid tax , so tax be due on these payment . however , as I have hear very clearly in this debate , many question have be raise about how we recover that tax due and who have pay it . in 2022 , the Court of Appeal rule that , even where other party may have obligation to withhold tax under PAYE , the liability for income tax be always that of the individual , fully endorse a long - stand position of HMRC and of government of all colour . that be a key point : the individual be ultimately primarily responsible for the tax they owe and for their own tax affair . do the Minister not recognise that quite a lot of people who use the scheme , who be make contractor against their will , be often just individual who be not tax expert , who pay the tax they be ask to pay at the time and do not think anything be wrong until year later , when suddenly HMRC come to pursue they ? do he not recognise that he be do the wrong thing to those people who really do not know well ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment and I understand completely where she be come from , but there be multiple point to discuss there . the scheme be never legitimate ; they be always tax avoidance , and therefore there be always a clear path that tax be owe . with respect to who then pay , I will mention that in a moment , but , if we move away from the underlying principle that individual still have personal responsibility to check their tax affair , it be very difficult to move back to it . I will also come on to the point she raise about furth Government action in a moment , because there be some people be be deceive and force into error that be completely inappropriate . the early stage of such loan scheme involve the very wealthy and people who , I think we can all agree , know exactly what they be do , but as the scheme evolve and get more sophisticated , and more people be draw into they , there be a long tail of people who be act in good faith , and theirs be many of the case that we have hear today . although we keep the principle that ultimate responsibility lie with those individual , it be important that we do the right thing in ensure that tax affair be straighten . rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Strangford . far to the point make by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , I think of those who be unknowingly bring into the scheme by their employer and then find themselves with a financial burden that they be not aware of . I be remind of the tv programme about the Post Office Horizon scandal , in which the terminology " the little people " be use . with the great of respect , these people be " the little people " — people who accept the system that be put down before they . there must be a way to help they . I completely understand where the hon . Gentleman be come from in relation to go after employer that have be deceptive . the loan charge ensure that tax be pay in respect of individual who enter into the scheme and receive payment with no tax deduct , but where possible , HMRC have be seek that tax from the employer in the first instance . I would like to reassure hon . member that 80 % of the revenue collect to date have come from employer , so we be target the employer , as he rightly point out . rise — I will take a couple more intervention , but I fear that colleague will ask about the very thing I be about to come to , so I may then resist further intervention . my hon . friend refer to the 2017 Supreme Court judgment . as I understand it , that judgment decide that responsibility for the use of an employee benefit trust for tax fall unequivocally on the employer , so it do not necessarily support he in the way he may think . there have be debate and disagreement on that , particularly as it relate to section 44 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 and so on . HMRC have outline the policy stance on this . although I understand that there be disagreement , the line be quite clear at the moment . I agree with the Minister that there be responsibility on all individual to ensure that their tax affair be in order and the correct tax be pay , but what will he tell the House about HMRC ' s responsibility to make the public aware that certain scheme may be see as tax evasion and therefore do not qualify for tax relief ? that be another important point to which I will come in a moment . I will now make some progress before I take further intervention , because I fear that otherwise I may ruin my response . as I say , the way in which we recover tax owe be important , include the interaction that individual have with key body such as HMRC . the Government recognise that there be area where the impact of the original loan charge be disproportionate to its aim . we have listen to concern raise by hon . member in the year since the loan charge be announce , and I have have conversation with HMRC about how it have , for example , endeavour to improve the tone of communication with impact individual . change in approach be also make follow Lord Morse ' s review , about which I have hear many comment today . many people may not be aware , but in September 2019 , the Government ask the former Comptroller and Auditor General of the National Audit Office , Lord Morse , to lead an independent review of the loan charge policy and its implementation . Lord Morse have full discretion over how the review be run , who he consult and the recommendation make . that consultation include the APPG and many of the people in the Chamber today . follow the review , Lord Morse recommend notable change to the policy , and the Government accept 19 of his 20 recommendation . those change benefit about 30 , 000 people and mean that the loan charge would apply only to outstanding loan make on or after 9 December 2010 , rather than April 1999 . that be the date when the Government announce anti - avoidance legislation that put beyond all doubt that the scheme be taxable — a very important date . the loan charge would also not apply to outstanding loan make in any tax year before 6 April 2016 where a reasonable disclosure of the use of a tax avoidance scheme be make to HMRC , but HMRC do not take action — again , some have make that point today . taxpayer be also give additional flexibility in the way they pay in line with their individual circumstance , but Lord Morse be clear that the loan charge be necessary and in the public interest , and should remain in force . do the Minister accept that HMRC official help to service the Morse review , and restrict its ground and parameter ? the original of that review have not be disclose , and we do not know how it be change in the meantime . there be great doubt about whether or not the Morse review be ever an independent review , and ever come to conclusion that would have deal with the issue and the unfairness we have be discuss today . before the Minister reply , I do want to say that I have give he more time than would normally be allocate for a Backbench Business debate . several colleague have try to intervene , but do be aware that we have another important debate to follow . I be sure the Minister will be cognisant of that fact . I thank you for that guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will try to proceed through the comment , because I be keen to make a few more point . the Morse review follow the normal process for such review , in term of the secretariat and support be provide by Government Departments . I have hear the comment make today , but I do not believe a case have be make for another review . I always stand ready to listen , but I think that review stand up quite well . I do not think anybody have impugn the integrity of Lord Morse today , but that review be thorough and significant , and 19 of the recommend change be implement . it be a hugely impactful and very thorough review . many hon . member have also make point about tackle promoter , and some individual face the loan charge feel rightly aggrieve at the promoter and enabler who facilitate the use of these scheme . promoter of tax avoidance scheme be parasite on the tax system — let we be in no doubt about that . they cause untold misery to the people they tempt into use those scheme , which almost never deliver the tax saving that be promise . the Government have prioritise tackle promoter of tax avoidance scheme and have give HMRC additional power to do so , as a result of which many promoter have stop promote those type of scheme . one individual involve in the promotion of scheme subject to the loan charge have already be convict , and other be currently under criminal investigation for offence link to the loan charge . through Finance act in 2021 and 2022 , the Government also introduce power that allow HMRC to take action more quickly against promoter . those include the power to publish detail of promoter of tax avoidance scheme and other involve in the implementation of such scheme . in 2022 , for example , HMRC issue a penalty of £ 1 million to a promoter of disguised remuneration scheme , and provision include in the Finance Bill currently progress through this House will make it a criminal offence to promote tax avoidance scheme after HMRC have issue a stop notice under the promoter of tax avoidance scheme rule . I be very pleased to say that those measure be receive support from all party . the Government also consult last summer on measure to address non - compliance in the umbrella company market — again , many hon . member have comment on that market today — include tackle the type of scheme we have discuss . we will respond to that consultation in due course , but I can let hon . member know that I and my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , the Minister for small business at the Department for Business and Trade , be already discuss what the next step should be . in the meantime , HMRC will continue to use its full range of civil and criminal power to disrupt the operation of promoter . will the Minister give way ? very briefly , and for the last time . I really be get anxious — we do need to move on very quickly . I call Neale Hanvey , if he can be brief . I will be very brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . one of the key problem we have be the inflationary cost that be add to the loan charge . will the Minister at least commit to look at those cost that be add on to the taxable sum ? the hon . member will be aware that I can not pre - empt the conclusion of the consultation or our response to it , but I hear his point . many member have raise the personal and emotional impact of the loan charge on their constituent . this be something that I , the Government and HMRC do take very seriously . we recognise the distress that loan scheme user may feel when face with large tax bill on their earning , often many year after the event , which the scheme promoter wrongly tell they they would be able to avoid . we be aware that some people who face the loan charge have , very sadly , take their own life or harm themselves . HMRC have make 10 referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct where a person have take their own life , and follow each referral , HMRC have conduct an internal investigation . nine of the 10 investigation have conclude , and although no misconduct be find , HMRC be take forward organisational learning from these matter to far strengthen the support provide in identify individual who need extra help . I completely understand the point raise by hon . member and , indeed , I have myself hear about the emotional distress from individual impact by the loan charge . colleague have also comment on the nature and tone of interaction with HMRC in the past . again , I have raise this with HMRC official , and I will continue to make the point that they should adopt a more understanding tone . other point of clarification be raise by hon . member , and I will endeavour to write to they because there be a few factual inaccuracy . for example , there be an appeal process — it be very important to make that point — and this be not an area in which criminal conviction be act against the individual . I will write to hon . member because there be a lot to debate in this area , but it be very important to make sure that we do not scare people . for example , we must make it clear that there be an appeal process , and there be of course no cost for the appeal process . there be also other matter that I would like to make hon . member aware of . I be aware of the timing , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you very much for your patience during what have obviously be a very emotive debate today . finally , I make an appeal . I would encourage those who still have disguise remuneration or loan charge liability to engage with HMRC . thousand of people be still not engage with it and be therefore not able to seek clarity or the support and guidance available , include emotional support , help from the Samaritans and other measure that HMRC have in place to identify and support vulnerable individual . I repeat my thank to hon . member for their engagement , and I welcome continued engagement , include with the APPG and all mp who have raise this topic with I on behalf of their constituent . I call Sammy Wilson , who have one minute to wind up . since time be short , I will not go through all the speech , but I thank member for take part and for the powerful speech they have make . there be two point that I will take away . first , there be the frustration , fear and powerlessness that many of our constituent feel in the face of oppressive Government bureaucracy , and the pursuit of those individual by people who be not and currently can not properly be hold to account . secondly , to repeat what the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say , I hope that we will not be sit here in four year ' time find out that , although we have this debate , we hear platitude from the Minister and there be no action . I do not want to take part in a debate similar to the one we have take part in today . I think it be the duty of the Minister and the duty of Parliament to hold those who have this power to account and to make sure that it do not continue to be abuse . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House be deeply concerned that HMRC have confirm the suicide of 10 people face the Loan Charge and that , despite the Morse Review , thousand face unaffordable demand , with the risk of further suicide ; note that HMRC have also confirm 24 case of serious harm , include 13 suicide attempt ; believe that many people who use scheme be victim of mis - selling , and that in other case employer and agency push people into use they , yet HMRC be demand all dispute tax from scheme user , not from those who recommend , promote and operate the scheme ; further note that section 44 of the Income Tax ( Earnings and Pensions ) Act 2003 deem agency worker to be taxable as employee of those agency and that HMRC should have collect tax from agency at the time ; criticise hmrc transfer the liability to individual despite its own failure ; observe that HMRC be pursue open enquiry for scheme before 2011 despite the Morse Review ; also note that HMRC be seek additional payment from those who settle ; far believe that the Morse Review be limited and not genuinely independent of HM Treasury and HMRC ; highlight the resolution propose by tax professional ; call on the Government to work with all party to find a fair resolution and for a full independent investigation , include into the conduct of HMRC ; and believe that taxpayer right must be enshrine in law and enquiry close after four year if HMRC fail to act . high Speed 2 Compensation I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to provide compensation to people who have be affect by the construction of HS2 . I have call this debate on High Speed 2 compensation as I be concerned about how my constituent in Stafford be still be treat by HS2 Ltd , and I wish to raise their serious complaint directly with the Rail Minister and to hear what he be go to do to address they . since the Prime Minister make the decision to cancel phase 2 of the HS2 rail project from Birmingham to Manchester , many people , include constituent of mine , have be leave in limbo , with no information about what be happen with their property or land . this issue affect numerous constituency and I thank the many colleague from across the House who be here to support this important debate today , include many neighbour in Staffordshire such as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) . today I be call for all outstanding HS2 compensation claim to be resolve . I will set out a number of example in my constituency that demonstrate that the issue of HS2 compensation be still a long way from be conclude and must be deal with by the Government . let I start by thank the constituent who have contact I , share their story and highlight how HS2 be deeply affect they . several other constituent who previously ask I to raise their case have now ask I not to mention they by name today . I be outraged to discover they have be intimidate by HS2 to do this . in one surgery appointment I be tell that a constituent be tell , " it would not be good for you to get your MP involve , as that would be bad for your case . " this be completely unacceptable behaviour by HS2 Ltd and I want to call it out today . I declare an interest , not in this case but as a farmer because I understand that HS2 have be contact by some in the National Farmers Union on this matter . do the hon . Member agree that to demand land from farmer and not to compensate they quickly and effectively can never be acceptable , and that if a farmer can show loss of earning , they should receive compensation for that ? I understand they currently do not . the hon . member be absolutely right , and if he bear with I , I will specifically come on to compensation to farmer and the point the NFU have raise . will the hon . member give way ? let I make some progress and I will give way in a few minute . I want all those seek compensation to know that they have not be forget . I be speak up for they all today , to ensure their view be hear at the high level of Government . since be elect as the Member for Stafford , I have raise the issue of HS2 compensation six time in this House — six time — and I have still not have all of my outstanding local claim resolve . that be not acceptable when HS2 ' s behaviour towards my resident have be shocking . in addition , I have contact numerous relevant Ministers and spend hundred of hour work on the issue , visit affected constituent and advocate for they . my first piece of casework as a new MP involve a constituent who experience the most awful mental health crisis because of the stress of the compensation process . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , who as a Rail Minister work constructively with I on that case . I appreciate , too , that the new Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , have also meet I recently to discuss these issue . when the Prime Minister announce back in October last year that the phase 2 of HS2 north of Birmingham would be cancel , I welcome it as I have long believe that HS2 be a folly . in November the Prime Minister state that " we be commit to fair treatment for people affect by the change " . — [ Official Report , 15 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 642 . ] while I applaud the Prime Minister ' s sentiment , there should absolutely be fair treatment for all those affect by the change , so today I ask the Minister to ensure that HS2 Ltd pay compensation fairly . that be the crucial question make even more pressing in light of the Secretary of State ' s comment back in November when he say he think that those affect by HS2 " have be properly compensate accord to the law " . I be sorry to say that that be not the case . I will go into more detail about why there have not be proper compensation in several instance . when the HS2 route be announce over a decade ago , the value of property and land along the route immediately drop . the land and property have become blighted , and we have to set up a very complex compensation system . those go through the process be advise to hire private agent to assist they through the negotiating process , but I have hear from numerous people that the complexity of the process have mean that they be offer far small sum in compensation than the property be worth because of hs2 . this process be not only complex but also extremely slow and I be now be tell those live along the cancel phase 2 route who wish to repurchase their property be do so at a far high price . this be clearly unacceptable . why on earth should we be penalise resident who have already be force to sell their property and land due to the Government build a railway line through their home ? I have a constituent call Si â n Froggatt , and she have a compulsory purchase order make against part of her farm , involve land that be the only way she can access her farm . three time she have petition hs2 to buy it back , but it say no , and the land will now go on to the open market . how can that be right — I hope the Minister will address this — when the railway line will not even be go alongside ? she be willing to pay back the money for her land that be compulsorily take off she . my hon . friend make an extremely important point , and I agree with everything he say . I will give an example from a constituent of mine in a similar situation . Andrew Collier be a farmer in Stafford farm 650 acre . HS2 purchase just over half his land , and some of that land be earmark for utility . the land be take before harvest time , and he ask HS2 Ltd for permission to harvest his crop . HS2 say it would allow he to do that , so the crop be harvest , but then HS2 Ltd give the crop to someone else and do not pay he for it . Mr Collier apply for compensation , hope that it would swiftly arrive . of course , that do not happen . instead , Mr Collier wait for two and a half year for hs2 to compensate he . I emphasise that to the Minister . even now , he be still owe hundred of thousand of pound to cover two year of lose harvest and other outstanding claim . he tell I that two member of his family who work on the farm have now have to leave , because the remain farmland be too little for they to work on . due to the compulsory purchase of his land and the long delay in receive compensation , he tell I in his surgery appointment that his farm be now no long financially viable . compound those issue , his sacrifice be now seemingly in vain , because HS2 phase 2 have be cancel and the land be lie fallow . that example be why this debate today be so important for raise this issue . there be a fundamental lack of transparency and fairness in this entire process , and I believe it be cause real harm to my constituent . how HS2 Ltd deal with compensation appear to be completely divorce from practical reality on the ground . another example be a local golf club , the course of which be in the middle of the countryside in my constituency . club member be devastate when they hear that the HS2 route would cut straight through the middle of it . what be to happen now ? similarly , my constituent Jean and Trevor Tabernor own a farm . HS2 ' s route mean that their farm would be spare , but their farmhouse be demolish . their new farmhouse be nearly complete , and they have be seek the last instalment of money to finish the work . as we all would expect , that need to be finalise as soon as possible so that they can complete the construction of their home . however , they be face delay , and now that the line have be cancel , HS2 be try to place restrictive clause on they " in perpetuity " , just for my constituent to receive what they be owe . those clause be clearly so that hs2 can maximise the value of its asset . HS2 Ltd be literally the only thing stand between they and their new home . again , I ask the Minister : what will happen to resolve that ? it be affect people ' s life and we simply can not wait any long for an answer . I turn to business affect and , in particular , how unsuitable the compensation process be for farmer . in our recent meeting , my hon . friend the Minister recognise that there be specific issue relate to farmer . I note that in his response to my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , he publicly state that " of the land that HS2 have , about 81 % have be let back out to be able to be utilise … I want to make sure that we can well understand from the farming community what can be do with the land that be no long need " . I thank the Minister for those word . I know he have meet the National Farmers Union , as indeed have I in Staffordshire , and other to well understand these issue . the point that I wish to make be that if unused land be not preserve in its state on the day before farming end , it will start slowly to deteriorate . for cropland in particular , that mean that the land be return to farmer will have to be rehabilitate , currently at the farmer ' s expense . when we consider farmland , it be clear that the compensation process be cause major financial issue by deprive farmer of the land that they farm and their ability to forward plan . I also have example of constituent who have not yet reach an agreement with HS2 Ltd when the Prime Minister make his announcement . may I ask the Government not to forget about those resident , who also need to have their compensation resolve ? on how HS2 Ltd propose to dispose of phase 2 land , follow the cancellation of phase 2 it have consistently tell resident and business owner that it must act to ensure value for money for taxpayer . as a Conservative , I support that in principle , but value for money in this context appear to mean short - change those from whom it have purchase land and property . the issue with the proposal be simple : HS2 Ltd be focus purely on ensure that it receive the high price for the land and the property it have compulsorily purchase , but there appear to have be little thought give to those whose land have be take off they and wish to have they back . the NFU have highlight the issue and be call for a simple and cheap process for return land ; I very much support that . as part of the process , most property and landowner who have their land compulsorily purchase will be offer the right of first refusal under the Crichel Down rule . however , the value of the land now will naturally be high than when it be blight , and they will also be high because land and property price have increase in general . farmer in particular , and all those affect , tell I that they be have to buy back their own land at a far high cost . that be unfair . I would like the Minister to look at that again . if the right to first refusal be not take , what will happen to that land and property ? someone will purchase it and , particularly with farmland , there be an additional danger that developer and land banker might be keen to buy it , which would completely transform the make - up of former rural community . there have be a serious lack of transparency from HS2 throughout all this . I be shocked to read recently that the chief executive of HS2 Ltd reveal that the cost of phase 1 have already increase by £ 10 billion to £ 66 . 6 billion — what a horrific waste of taxpayer money . finally , I raise the importance of the Handsacre link , which would bring hs2 - compatible train to Stafford . it be advertise as the reward for the people of Stafford for endure so many year of issue associate with the project . it would ensure that phase 1 be complete , and a lot of the work require to construct it be under way . I raise the rail link previously , in April last year , when I be assure by the Secretary of State for Transport that the work would continue to progress , but I hear rumour that it be to be cancel . that would be not only a betrayal of my constituent and a waste of the time and resource put into the construction that have already be complete , but — this be a key point — a breach of the legislation that specify that it must be build . will the Minister reassure my constituent that the Handsacre rail link will be complete ? this debate be important because my constituent be still live in uncertainty . the process surround HS2 compensation be flawed , and HS2 Ltd continue to behave disgracefully . finally , may I invite my hon . friend the Minister to visit I in Stafford to talk directly to my constituent and see at first hand how the delay and the lack of fair payment be affect they , and ask he to commit today to do something about that ? HS2 compensation must finally be resolve . I thank the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure this debate . as Members may know , part of my constituency lie directly above the HS2 tunnel in the chiltern hill , where the tunnel boring machine be due to surface . particularly affect have be those live near the five vent shafts near Chalfont St Peter , Chalfont St Giles , Amersham , Chesham Road and Little Missenden . for some , the impact have be so severe that they have feel unable to continue live in their home . decision to move be never take lightly , and they have invariably bring they into contact with HS2 ' s various compensation scheme . I wish to focus on the experience of constituent with one particular scheme : the special circumstance or atypical property scheme . the scheme be set up in recognition that some resident and business near the HS2 route may need assistance , despite not meet the eligibility requirement of other scheme . the first case I shall share be that of a constituent who live in close proximity to one of the vent shaft . they experience the construction of a haul road immediately outside their property . where once there have be a country lane use largely by local resident , now there be a large road with HGV traffic travel up it night and day . in addition , a 3 - metre high embankment be construct immediately in front of their house , ruin their view , their privacy and the value of their property . face with at least another year of construction work and the permanent blighting of their property , my constituent reluctantly decide to seek compensation from HS2 , which would allow they to move . they have this to say about their experience : " deal with HS2 and its contract partner have be a nightmare . they will not properly engage regard compensation and on other matter they continually delay answer question , provide incorrect and contradictory information , change their plan without proper notice or consultation and have no regard for the wellbeing of the community . they block all attempt at proper dialogue , ignore question and hand matter to different team to delay thing far . if we complain we might get a half - hearted apology for the time take to respond at all , but nothing change . " thankfully , after much stress and inconvenience , the Government eventually buy my constituent ' s property at unblighted value , under the special circumstance or atypical property scheme . but it should never have be that hard . the delay , contradictory information , change of plan at short notice and half - hearted apology lead to unnecessary delay , distress and upset . it do not have to be that way . the second case I shall briefly share involve constituent who move to their home in 2007 — two year before HS2 be announce . where previously the enjoy starlit night , they now face floodlight on at all hour . the disturbance and upheaval take a toll on my constituent ' s mental health , result in their make the difficult decision to sell their home . HS2 initially seek to steer the couple towards the need to sell scheme , which would have force they to sell their property at market value rather than the considerably high unblighted value . after much wrangling , include intervention from my office , HS2 agree to consider the couple as an atypical case . part of the problem be that there be no formal application process . the process be opaque . unfortunately , HS2 agree to consider my constituent as an atypical case be in many way just the beginning . the couple emphasise how degrade the process to finally be accept be . despite provide GP and support worker detail to hs2 more than once , they continue to receive repeat request for ever more information , with each request bring up renew worry and stress . both the case I have reference today eventually result in the individual be accept to the special circumstance or atypical property scheme , but the process to get there be protract , stressful and awful . that be what I want to highlight . the scheme need to be administer swiftly , fairly and with compassion . I sincerely hope that the Minister will reflect on those experience , and that lesson can be learn to ensure that those affect can get a speedy resolution and be treat with the dignity and respect they deserve . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on secure the debate . we have already hear from the first two speaker how people ' s life have be impact by this scheme . many of we , right across Staffordshire , be delighted when we hear the news back in October that the Prime Minister have take the right decision in cancel phase 2 of hs2 . many of we have be campaign for that and we be so delighted to hear the news . HS2 have already spend £ 208 million on the purchase of land for phase 2a alone , and that be even before the major construction work be to start . there be a hope and a belief that the land that have be purchase would be return to the owner and it would all be resolve incredibly quickly . I be afraid to say , however , that even though the announcement be make in October , there remain an enormous amount of uncertainty , an enormous amount of concern and a total lack of clarity for many people who be impact by the scheme . as the new year begin , we need clarity on when land will be return . we need to have an understanding of when the selling of land by HS2 be to start . we need to have an understanding about those people who have have their home take from they . when will they be in a position to buy back their home ? when will they be in a position to know what the rule be and what their future may hold ? I appreciate that the Minister have , just today , lift the safeguarding on phase 2a . I think all of we very much welcome that , but it still leave many question that need urgent clarity . I understand that the Department for Transport have say that the return of land will " take time because the Department for Transport need to make sure the programme provide value for money for taxpayer and do not disrupt local property market " . it also say : " there remain a significant amount of work to do " . I be sure there be a significant amount of work to do , but there have be a considerable period of time to do that work , and people ' s life be on hold and their nerve have be fray . many people just do not know what their future hold . they can not move on until the Minister and HS2 give they the certainty and the clarity that be require . I want to touch on a couple of example that have be send to I . there be , sadly , a lot of fear among many staffordshire resident about how HS2 act . it act sometimes in quite an imperious manner , without necessarily the care , consideration or consistency that one would hope for from a government - own organisation . one example relate to a farming business . temporary possession start in 2022 , with HS2 take around 3 acre for environmental mitigation . the family object to the land be take on a temporary basis , as they do not want to be responsible for the future maintenance of all the thing that be be put on it . far graze land of approximately 100 acre be take under temporary possession in January 2023 . a proportion of that land be purchase in July 2023 . meanwhile , preparation for the diversion of a high - pressure gas main begin in March 2023 . Fencing be erect , hundred of metre of hedge be rip out and a compound be build , before work be halt in May 2023 . follow the announcement of phase 2a ' s cancellation , the family expect the compulsory purchase order to be cancel and the land to be return . however , further land be purchase in November 2023 . last time I check , November definitely come after October , so that be after the Prime Minister announce that the scheme be not continue . what be the impact on these farmer ? they be considerable , because HS2 have a very different understanding of the concept of the purchase of land . if any of we in this place , or any of our constituent , want to purchase land , usually we enter into an agreement , then we pay money , and after we have pay the money , we may get the land . it work very differently for hs2 . it can purchase land and never pay for the land . those affect then have the problem of have to work around HS2 , which will never actually build anything on the land . here we have a business , a farm , with a 400 - cow dairy unit . because of all the infrastructure change that HS2 have make , such as remove access to part of the graze area , it be difficult for the farmer to move livestock around . it be difficult for they to gain access to land for which they have never be pay , or of which hs2 have take temporary possession . all this be create an additional workload , and they have not be compensate and be not clear about when that will happen . another example be a small nursery business whose owner depend on people know where it be . HS2 , which have place a charge on the land through the Land Registry , will not allow they to cut the hedge that it now own but have never pay for , but it be willing to charge they , at an incredibly high rate , for the freedom to cut the hedge so that people know where their business be . this be not the way in which we expect a government - own company — a company own not by some multi - national , but by the Secretary of State for Transport — to be able to proceed . I wonder whether , if I pass on the contact detail of those two business and other detailed information , the Minister will ensure that their case be examine closely and that a resolution be find . so many message have be send to I about the manner in which HS2 have conduct itself — about the delay that people have have to suffer , about the uncertainty , and about people have to put their hand in their own pocket and spend ten of thousand of pound on land agent and consultant to try to get some money back from HS2 , but still not receive anything . so many people have have land take from they — land that they no long own , but for which they have never receive a single penny . we need to have clarity . we can not wait month and month more . I hope that the Minister , who I know be a diligent and caring Minister , will give that clarity today , or , at the very minimum , give a clear timeline for when everyone who have be impact by HS2 will know the rule by which it be play , and ensure that there be fairness for the people in Staffordshire who have be affect . I commend the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure this debate . the motion state : " that this House call on the Government to provide compensation to people who have be affect by the construction of HS2 . " I take a bit of exception to the word " construction " . there have be a great deal of cost and a great deal of injury , especially for the taxpayer . in my constituency , 22 mile of which have be affect by blight for more than a decade , there be certainly plenty of injury and need for compensation , but there have never be any actual construction . as the House know , HS2 — the second project of the high - speed rail system — be initiate by the Labour Government before the 2010 election . I think it be Lord Adonis ' s little pet project , which he formulate on the back of a fag packet as a gimmick for the labour manifesto , but unfortunately George Osborne pick it up and run with it . do the hon . Gentleman know that before Lord Adonis get his grubby hand on it , a design for HS2 be make by Arup ? hs2 would have connect with HS1 , and would have go into major transport hub such as Birmingham New Street and Manchester Piccadilly . it would have be possible to travel directly from Manchester Piccadilly to France without any change at all , and do you know what ? it would have be cheap as well , because there would have be no tunnelling through the Chilterns . if we be to debate the many failing of hs2 , we would need more than the time available today . that will be for another debate , and I have no doubt that the Government have learn lesson , as they always do , but they will have be very expensive lesson for the taxpayer . HS2 be the white elephant that get ever big on taxpayer ' money . I oppose the project before it even start . I vote and speak against it at every opportunity for a decade , but the elephant get ever large . my constituent let out a collective sigh of relief when phase 2b be finally dispatch . today ' s debate be about compensation , which be define as an award , normally money , pay in recognition of loss , suffering and injury . although my constituency do not see any hs2 construction , we certainly have plenty of loss , suffering and injury . we have 10 year of blight , with an area the width of two football field , run the whole length of the constituency — 22 mile — be sterilise . countless house be never build and at least one factory , at the Lounge coal washing site , have to be cancel — that factory would have create 1 , 200 job . we have have this blight for 10 year . my constituency be fortunate to have the high economic growth in the country , but that economic growth and prosperity would have be far great without the blighted land run through the middle of the constituency for more than 10 year . what compensation can the Minister offer my constituent ? some of they go to their grave , and the big worry in their life be that hs2 be suppose to be go through their back garden . I reassure they that it be never go to happen . despite all the bull and bluster from the Government , it be always go to run out of money . when the route be announce in 2013 , I say it be go to end up cost over £ 100 billion — it be in Hansard — and the House laugh . it be right to laugh , because it be not £ 100 billion , be it ? it be £ 160 billion at its peak . the hon . member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) be right that the project be suppose to move people seamlessly around the country . as the Government could never afford to get hs2 into city centre because of its burgeon cost , they quickly end up aim to move people from nearly London to nearly Birmingham . if phase 2 have proceed , it would have go to nearly Manchester . I do not know anyone who want to go from nearly London to nearly Birmingham , but the project have to continue . HS2 have blight my North West Leicestershire constituency , but I want to talk about one community in particular . the village of Measham be the most affected settlement on the plan route . nowhere south of Measham have the number of house and business that would have be disrupt , without any mitigation . know it be one of the most deprived community in my constituency , we have a regeneration plan to work with a fantastic company call Measham Land , through which 450 desirable new house be go to be build on wasteland in the middle of the village . work with the Ashby Canal Trust , it be go to fund regeneration project , include two aqueduct , to bring the canal back to Measham , with a caf é culture around a large basin at the end of the canal system where people could bring their longboat . there be go to be huge investment in the village until HS2 be announce . the route go straight through the middle of the Measham Land site . the regeneration of Measham have be delay for 10 year . the people of Measham have suffer loss and injury , but where be the compensation ? okay , the regeneration will now go ahead , but it be 10 year late . the project would have be complete by now . we have see that all along the route , not just in my constituency . who else have be injure ? I will declare an interest : I be probably the only Member of Parliament who have to sell their house to HS2 — a house that I buy in 2011 . it be a substantial georgian rectory with outbuilding and 14 acre of ground , and I be force by a judge to sell it under the extreme hardship scheme . I sell it in 2015 to HS2 . be a Member of Parliament , I think , " I can ' t deal with HS2 myself , so I ' ll employ some consultant to deal with it , so that it ' s an arm ' s length transaction . " they charge I £ 25 , 000 . it take 18 month , and I go through the system . I explain to the Government afterwards how HS2 have swindle everybody along the line with its property price , and I will explain to the House how it be do . it appear to be a transparently fair system , but I can assure hon . and right hon . member that it most certainly be not , give the psychology behind it . everybody along the whole route be present with the same option . if HS2 want to buy a property or someone have to sell their property — whether it be land , a factory or a dwelling — for various reason , they will be offer a list of 10 valuer by HS2 . the valuer will be mainly London estate agent , of whom the seller will have no knowledge . they may know the name — some of the very big estate agency be on the list of 10 valuer — but it will be deal with by the London office , with which people in the midland or the north be unlikely to have ever have any contact . they will be ask to choose one of the valuer to value their property , and hs2 will choose another , which sound pretty transparently fair . they will both come to the property , land or factory to do an valuation . if the valuation be within 10 % of each other , HS2 will say , " let ' s split the difference and call that the valuation . " on paper , that sound very fair , but think about the psychology of it . those 10 valuer be the valuer for the whole route . they will only ever work for an individual who choose they at random , because no seller have any knowledge of they whatsoever — it be a purely random choice . by choose a valuer , someone have do all they can for they ; the valuer will get pay their fee from HS2 for do the valuation . but what the valuer on the list all want to be be the valuer that get choose every time by HS2 . give the pressure from the burgeon cost of the project and the evidence give by whistleblower who have leave the land procurement side of HS2 , which of the valuer do hon . and right hon . member think hs2 will choose on the next occasion : the valuer who put in the high price to buy my house and land from I , or the valuer who put in the low price for my property and land ? the fact be that the system use by HS2 be always go to drive down the land and property price pay to those affect by the route , and it be provable that that be exactly what it do . there have be two notable whistleblower who have leave hs2 , and I have speak to both of they over the year . a former director of HS2 , Doug Thornton , be put in charge of planning and performance . he be later put in charge of a £ 2 . 8 billion project to acquire all the land and property that be need along part of the route . he go back to HS2 and say , " £ 2 . 8 billion be not enough . you can ' t make a budget and just say we ' re go to buy all the land and building for £ 2 . 8 billion . " he say it be near £ 4 . 8 billion , but he be tell that he have to buy they for that price . do that sound like HS2 be ever pay a fair price for the property it need to acquire along the route ? I have also recently speak to Andrew Bruce , who be in charge of buy land and property for hs2 until 2016 . he have tell his superior that they have never pay a fair market price for any of the land and building that he buy while he be there , and he be ask to shred a report that he have do on that . the two whistleblower suffer loss and injury as well , because I be tell that they be unable to get another job in the industry after they whistleblew on the practice that they experience in HS2 . they might need some compensation as well . we should protect whistleblower , because without they we would still have a continuation of the Horizon / Post Office scandal . I maintain that individual and community have be damage by HS2 , and I would be interested to know what compensation the village of Measham will get , and what we be go to do for every householder and landowner along that route , who I can prove do not get the right price . the Minister have promise I a meeting twice in the last two month , and I still do not have a date for it . I really hope that he will come through for I . I hope that lesson have be learn by HS2 and the Government . it have be a week of scandal — Horizon / Post Office , the loan charge , HS2 — and the Government have not cover themselves in glory . rise — order . three Members , plus the Front Benchers , still wish to speak . the debate have to end at 5 o ' clock . I urge brevity upon colleague . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on secure this important debate and advocate for her constituent . as my remark will show , I be consider the topic from a slightly different but equally important angle . I be here to press the Government to compensate Crewe in the light of the cancellation of HS2 from Birmingham to Crewe , and then on from Crewe to Manchester . I hope that the House will indulge I : for medical reason I be not on the estate when we return from recess follow the announcement by the Prime Minister regard HS2 . I make my opposition to the decision clear at the time , but the decision have now be make , so I will not spend time rehearse the argument . I recognise that I would be heavily outnumber today on that front . I will , however , place on the record the disappointment of my constituent and local business . the arrival of HS2 to Crewe represent a fantastic opportunity for the town to secure economic growth and improve connectivity on both inter - city and other rail travel . Crewe have a positive future regardless , but there be no deny the super - charge effect that HS2 come to Crewe would have have . I must reluctantly accept the Government ' s decision , and recognise that other proposal can now move forward as a result . as part of Network North , we will see increase funding for most exist major road network and large local major road scheme . those scheme can benefit from an uplift in Government contribution from 85 % to 100 % of their cost , and increase funding will help to ensure the delivery of the scheme . it will also lead to over £ 700 million to fund a new wave of bus service improvement plan in the north , and an extra £ 3 . 3 billion to tackle pothole as part of a road resurfacing scheme . there be no doubt , however , that as thing stand Crewe have not be fairly compensate in the light of the change plan . those in local government in Cheshire , and in Cheshire East in particular , be encourage to engage with and prepare for hs2 ' s arrival . have they not , I be sure they would have be subject to extraordinary pressure from central Government to do just that . regeneration funding give to the town and , in particular , our town deal be calculate with a clear understanding that this other form of central Government investment be happen . Cheshire East report that it spend over £ 11 million in prepare for HS2 and the Crewe hub . that include £ 8 . 6 million in the capital programme and £ 2 . 6 million of direct revenue expenditure . while it be not for I to decide the wisdom of all that expenditure line by line , it be a significant amount of money , predicate on repeat long - term commitment from central Government . that investment be due to realise regeneration in Crewe that it will not now achieve . that money could have be spend directly in Crewe in other way that do secure regeneration . of course we can expect our share of the reallocate bus and road funding , but that be just the share that we would have expect to get if hs2 be never come to Crewe . a decision have be take , which the Government argue a wide region will benefit from , but the Government need to recognise the financial impact on Crewe and step up to the plate . I do not accept that Cheshire East can blame the decision for all its financial woe — that be obvious political manoeuvring — and it be important that the lion ' s share of any funding go to Crewe and be not use just to fill the financial problem face the wide council , but I do accept that the Government must compensate we locally for the implication of their decision . we have a lot of positive thing to talk about in Crewe . as I mention , our town deal be fund a £ 22 . 9 million package of project , include a community centre in the regenerated and reopen Flag Lane Baths , a brand new home for the south Cheshire amateur boxing club , a new youth club , improve pocket park , investment in empty shop and more . we also have £ 14 million from the future high street fund . however , the economic value , both direct and associated , with be an hs2 hub station be of significant scale and the return on bus and road funding will see a shortfall that I press the Government to look at . we know a number of site get significantly big town deal and levelling - up funding have be make available to other place on a big scale . that be not unreasonable in the context of HS2 come to Crewe , but now it be not . I know the rail Minister be only one part of the puzzle , but I hope there be recognition across Government that movement be need . will the Minister confirm the Government ' s commitment to come forward with proposal to compensate Crewe , over and above the money all area be receive base on the decision take on HS2 and that we expect to receive ? when will that funding be make available and how ? when the dust have settle , the Government should be able to demonstrate clearly that the impact on Crewe have be recognise not just with word but with a clear investment of funding . that be the fair thing to do . I know the Minister recognise the obligation that any reasonable person would see exist and I expect he have be press the case , but time be move on . what we need now be result . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on secure this important debate . it give I the opportunity — I have do this many time before in this Chamber and at the Transport Committee — to continue to detail the plight face by landowner and small business owner alike who , through no fault of their own , have be sweep up in the seemingly endless and needless disruption cause by HS2 Ltd and its contractor in my constituency . People face loss and hefty legal bill that have leave many unprofitable , some face near bankruptcy and all without the mean to recoup their loss in any equitable way . time and again , I have hear about the inescapable , infinite loop of bureaucracy that surround what meagre compensation HS2 Ltd be willing to cough up , which in itself increase and prolong my constituent ' legal cost . one landowner tell I that her land agent be increasingly reluctant to take on more work as more and more of his bill , which under the Act be mean to be compensate by HS2 ' s own agent Carter Jonas , go unpaid . a couple in my constituency have be catch up in this legal quagmire , with hs2 ' s insistence that their septic tank be replace before the project purchase the property at a predetermine rate . what be suppose to be a relatively straightforward job turn into a multi - month process , prevent my constituent from sell their property at that agree price , effectively leave they short - change , despite they simply follow due process . they have yet to be compensate for the difference between the agree value and the actual value of their property . in the village Quainton , which in one way or another have be continuously impact by HS2 ' s road closure , yet another road closure be about to come into effect , this time for two year . that will devastate my constituent at Doddershall House , whose business will suffer from reduce access to and from the estate , and require a lengthy diversion both for they and their client . HS2 have not even attempt to offer they compensation . for our farmer , cattle loss have blight numerous farm as a result of poor soil treatment and management by HS2 ' s contractor , often operate right next door . one farm have quote a total loss of £ 37 , 000 as a direct result of hs2 ' s shoddy practice . how can this possibly be morally justifiable for the project ? how can a hardworke family be leave with such heavy loss ? then there be blackleg , a disease in cattle that be cause by bacteria release from disturb soil . I be aware of at least one case that the farmer have attribute to hs2 ' s malpractice . it be noteworthy that farmer in this area have never see a blackleg case before in Buckinghamshire . no prize , Mr Deputy Speaker , for guess how much compensation have be offer — for the avoidance of all doubt , it be zero . it be not just farmer and landowner who suffer from be leave out in the cold by HS2 . hundred of road user across my constituency be force to sit in endless congestion wherever HS2 decide to cut down a tree , close whole road in the process , and there be endless utility diversion . commuter , bus take child to school and ambulance respond to life - or - death situation have all have their journey repeatedly disrupt by HS2 , with no recourse to any form of compensation . whether it be the A41 through Waddesdon and Fleet Marston , or the village near Wendover , such as Ellesborough and Butlers Cross , these endless , endless diversion be cost real people real money and real time and , in some case , live on a daily basis , and there be no compensation . that be before we even get to the state of Buckinghamshire ' s road , destroy by thousand of HGV movement link to hs2 construction , cause endless damage to car , from tyre to suspension system . again , HS2 , with its finger in its ear , do not take any responsibility for what it have break in Buckinghamshire . briefly , I come to business , with the example of the Prince of Wales pub in Steeple Claydon , which sit at the heart of HS2 disruption and destruction and be also very near the building of East West Rail . road in and out of the village be constantly close — Addison Road , for example , be close for many , many month recently . it be cost the pub nigh on £ 1 , 000 a month in lose revenue . at one point , the landlord tell I that he be £ 65 , 000 down . there be no scheme — nothing at all — to compensate business affect in this way . real livelihood and the real viability of business be be challenge . I put that to a former chief executive of HS2 Ltd , Mark Thurston , when he actually bother to visit my constituency in May , and the language he use about the pub be unrepeatable in this Chamber . there be no sympathy ; he just say that it be just a — expletive — " little pub that nobody would want to drink in anyway . " that be not the attitude that we expect from anyone pay by the state . just next door in Steeple Claydon be Langston & Tasker , which stand out among the business affect by HS2 construction because , as a bus and coach operator , it be hit hard by any road closure . it operate school run , take Buckinghamshire child to school daily , yet the constant road closure , the state of the road and the damage to their vehicle be cost the company considerable amount of money every single day , which ultimately get pass on to Buckinghamshire Council and local council tax payer . do hs2 pay a penny towards it ? no , of course not , but it absolutely should . Mr Deputy Speaker , I could go on with example like this all afternoon , but I be very aware of the time and the fact that other wish to speak . my message to the Minister , who I know do listen , have visit my constituency and do want to get this right , be that we must do well . HS2 Ltd must do well . the attitude need to change . the practice need to change . HS2 need to understand the real life that it be devastating on a daily basis , be that people who own property or people who be just try to go about their daily life — go to work , get the kid to school , and perhaps have some fun . the people from HS2 need to understand the impact that , as unwelcome alien in Buckinghamshire , they be have daily as they build this railway . my challenge to the Minister be this : let we get the compensation that real people — my constituent and so many more — deserve . I thank my near neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for introduce this debate . we have hear a catalogue of problem from various colleague here on both side of the House . the sad thing be that they be not unique . they be repeat up and down the country . when I be a Whip , I institute a system — I be look at my hon . friend the Member for Rushcliffe ( Ruth Edwards ) , who be the Whip , to see whether this system still operate — where we would look at our member of Parliament to see how many staff they get through in a short period , because clearly there be a problem if someone could not hold on to their staff for long . we would think that the Minister or Back Bencher in question be seriously flaw in some way . how many chairman and chief executive have hs2 go through ? it have go through a lot , because they be flawed in a serious way ; they be dysfunctional . that be make even more amazing by the fact that they have go through all these senior staff at HS2 , and yet it be the highest pay role in the civil service . it be extraordinary , and it just demonstrate what an organisation this be — not only dysfunctional , but unfair . in an intervention , I talk about my constituent Si â n Froggatt , who be not be allow to reclaim land that be compulsorily take from she , even though the land be now not need because the railway be not go ahead on phase 2a . I might add that she be still wait to be pay — wait to be pay , and still unable able to reclaim that land . I take the opportunity of look at my cellphone during the debate , not because I be look at tractor or anything like that , but because I be do some research about the Crichel Down rule . it say on the Government ' s own website that " the Crichel Down Rules require government department … to offer back surplus land to the former owner or the former owner ' s successor at the current market value . " it have to be offer back to the same people . not only be it not be offer back at a reasonable price , but it be often not be offer back to the same people . I come in at the very last moment to speak in this debate , so I will not take up a great deal of time . I will listen with interest to the Minister ' s response , which I suspect might be the same as the answer he give yesterday in a different debate regard the Handsacre junction , which happen to be in my constituency . I ask that in these die day of hs2 — die day in one way or another — the Government get a grip and ensure that , just we ask in the previous debate , justice be do for our constituent . the sense of justice we have in this nation extend not only to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , as in the previous debate , but to HS2 Limited in this one . I congratulate the hon . member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) on secure this important debate and thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the time . I also thank the right hon . member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) and the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) , for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) and for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) for contribute to the debate . the story we have hear , and those that have be report over the year , show the very real consequence of this Tory HS2 fiasco — [ interruption . ] there be some mutter from conservative mp . if the civil service and the Department for Transport be not involve in the decision to cancel that be announce by the Prime Minister in Manchester — it be do on the back of a fag packet , which have be use today , all day — it be no wonder that we get this type of fiasco . we have hear of people have to leave the family home that they work hard for , business have to pack up and leave their premise , town and village see home target after they be buy and later leave to rot , and farmer be force to move or unable to use their land for year because of more and more delay to HS2 . , we have hear of cash - strap council such as Cheshire East Council , which the hon . member for Crewe and Nantwich tell we pay out £ 11 million . I commend the Labour spokesman Connor Naismith on his campaign to have the council reimburse for the money lose . community have have their future put on pause for year and family have find get compensation to be a painful and draw - out experience . life and business have be disrupt for a decade , and for what ? a staggering £ 65 billion high - speed train line that will now not even reach the community that have be impact — a train line that , accord to the chair of HS2 , will result in few seat and long journey for those travel north of Birmingham . what a result for the people live in those community and across the north . all that be even before we consider how much taxpayer ' money have be spend on the compensation . accord to report , almost £ 423 million have be spend buy up 424 property on the western leg from Birmingham to Manchester , and £ 164 million spend buy 530 " blighted " property on the eastern leg to Leeds . today come the news that the Government be lift safeguarding on the land ; not content with cancel high - speed rail to the north , the Prime Minister have now decide to salt the earth . if we be not aware already , that must be the final nail in the coffin for levelling - up . can the hon . Gentleman clarify whether , in the unfortunate and unlikely event of a Labour Government , they would reimpose safeguarding on phase 2a ? like Napoleon out of Moscow , it be route through the poison - earth strategy with the lifting of the safeguarding today . we have to be responsible . we will have to see what the book tell we if we be to enter Government in the week or month to come . we have see 14 year of promise to the north and the midland break . in the Prime Minister ' s desperate , fail attempt to rebrand himself as the change candidate at the next election , he decide to rush through an alternative plan at the party conference — a plan that mention place such as Crewe , which , as the hon . member for Crewe and Nantwich rightly say , would have greatly benefit , but a plan that the Prime Minister admit be only " illustrative " . illustrative ? the Network North plan announce fantastic news for my Wythenshawe and Sale East constituency — a new metrolink line to Manchester airport . it open in 2016 . that illustrate the chaos and the confusion of that announcement . the now Foreign Secretary be not alone on the conservative side in criticise the decision . two former Chancellors warn the Prime Minister that his action be " huge economic self - harm " , while the Tory Mayor of the West Midlands describe it as " cancel the future " — a great line , if I may say so to the hon . member for Lichfield . in what be a consistent theme for this Government , this whole mess have be create by not consult the community affect , not speak to our Metro Mayors and not listen to the business across the country that be depend on the project . after 14 year , community have have enough of the broken promise from this broken Government . labour will not repeat those mistake — mismanage major project , turn people ' s live upside down , take their trust for grant , impact their business and livelihood and fail to deliver . I be listen carefully to the shadow Minister , who be tell we that a mythical future Labour Government would not disrupt people ' s life . do he understand that build hs2 do devastate people ' s life ? big infrastructure devastate people ' s life and there be no way to do it without do that . that be exactly why Labour would do it with the Mayors , with the community and in consultation with those it would affect and impact . HS2 be go to go under my back garden — that be my interest . the hon . Gentleman just say that Labour would do it . just to be clear , can I confirm that Labour be now say it will bring back hs2 if it win the next election ? I refer to the answer I give to the right hon . member for South Staffordshire ; that remain our position . Labour have launch an independent expert review of transport infrastructure head by industry leader J ü rgen Maier , originally of Siemens , to learn the lesson from this shamble and to ensure that we deliver transport infrastructure fast and more effectively , so that community be not take for a ride with nothing to show for it , as have be the case here . in this debate we have hear just a few of the many example of people ' s life be impact by this conservative hs2 scandal . it be clear that community be still pay the price for the delay of the past decade and the chaos of the past few month . the hon . Gentleman be be very generous in give way . would he generously accept that , if it have not be for Lord Adonis change the original plan , HS2 would have go nowhere near area such as the Chilterns ? it would have go up a completely different route and be a connected railway , and would probably have be quite worthwhile . I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but seriously , after 14 year , those type of excuse be wear extraordinarily thin , if he do not mind my saying so . I hope the Minister will outline what be be do to address this chaos — cost be still go up after the decision in October — to ensure that those impact receive the compensation that they deserve , as member have well underline , and that the same mistake be not make again and again in future . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s remark . once again , I thank the hon . member for Stafford for secure the debate and all member who have participate . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Theo Clarke ) for secure this important debate and I acknowledge all contribution from right hon . and hon . member . I will come to they in the course of my response . as the House will be aware , the Government lay a write ministerial statement this morning announce the lifting of safeguard direction along the former hs2 route between the west midland and Crewe . by lift safeguarding , the Government be provide certainty to people along the former route of phase 2a and make development easy , as HS2 Ltd will no long object to propose development in the area to which the safeguarding direction have apply . to be clear , however , the lifting of safeguarding do not in any way trigger the start of a sell - off of property already acquire by the Secretary of State . no land own by the Secretary of State will be sell off until we be ready . safeguard apply to land own privately . the imposition of safeguard on phase 2a have hitherto protect HS2 from conflict development from any private landowner . safeguarding have now be lift from phase 2a , with one notable exception : the continued safeguarding of land close to the village of Handsacre , north of Lichfield in Staffordshire . that junction , which I know be dear to my hon . friend the Member for Stafford , and indeed to the constituency MP , my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , be now an even more critical part of the hs2 infrastructure . it will allow HS2 train to join the west coast main line through a connection to the exist rail network . I can confirm that the Government remain committed to deliver the Handsacre connection , as we be commit to deliver HS2 phase 1 . from London to the midland , 140 mile of new railway be be build by thousand of engineer and construction worker at 350 active construction site . at Euston , we be work with our development partner , Lendlease , to model an ambitious redevelop Euston quarter and deliver thousand of home and office that will provide the financing for HS2 train into central London . today ' s important announcement be further evidence that we be listen to business and resident along the former phase 2a route , and we will continue to do so . let I give the further information that my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield request . we will amend the safeguarding on the remainder of the phase 2 route of HS2 — from Crewe to Manchester and from the west midland to Leeds — by the summer , to allow for any safeguarding need for Northern Powerhouse Rail . to respond to the point make by my right hon . friend , we will shortly design a programme for the disposing of any property that be no long need by HS2 , and will set out more detail soon . I can confirm that any land and property that be acquire for HS2 compulsorily or via statutory blight but be no long require will be sell , subject to the Crichel Down rule . those rule , as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield set out , require Government Departments , under certain circumstance , to offer back surplus land and property for sale to the former owner , or their successor , at the current market value . I therefore assure my hon . friend that we be ensure that property be offer back at a fair price to original owner with first refusal . the Minister say that the property acquire by HS2 that be no long require will be sell at the current market price , but do he accept that , as I have explain to the House , HS2 do not pay a fair market price at the time of the acquisition of those asset ? I be due to meet the hon . member . he say that I have decline to meet he after two request ; actually , I have a meeting in his diary yesterday , but accord to his office he be unable to make that meeting . we have set another date for 31 January . I will talk to the hon . member about the matter he raise ; the Department and the hs2 team have look at they before and do not agree with the conclusion he have mention , but we will discuss those matter when we meet on the 31st . as have be set out by my hon . friend and other member who have speak , property owner who have find themselves oblige to deal with HS2 Ltd and its contractor have have vary and , at time , inconsistent experience . those property owner be understandably less interested in what HS2 can or can not deliver for transport and the wide economy : their focus have instead be on seek the compensation they be entitle to , and navigate what must at time have seem like an unequal relationship with HS2 Ltd . I readily acknowledge how important it be that those owe compensation , such as money for the purchase of their property or expense or cost associate with such transaction , be pay in as timely a manner as be possible . I have always seek to impress on the company and its agent that it be unacceptable that case should drag on . that be of no benefit to anyone — certainly not the property owner , and certainly not the taxpayer . when it come to pay owner for title to property that they have , in many case , sell unwillingly , it be only right that those owner should receive recompense in full and as fast as be practicable . that say , each property transaction be unique , so present its own set of circumstance . as many in this House will be aware , when negotiate and settle compensation claim , HS2 Ltd follow the principle set out in the compensation code . there be also a number of discretionary scheme that offer further help to those not eligible under the statutory framework — in effect , they go above and beyond that framework . HS2 Ltd must achieve a careful balance between meet the need of the claimant and deliver value for money to the taxpayer . the compensation code require claimant to provide robust evidence for their claim . it be often when claimant be struggle to provide sufficient suitable evidence for their claim that negotiation become frustrated , lead to delay . I will be frank : the extent to which claimant ’ agent provide suitable evidence , or be willing to negotiate from a realistic standpoint , vary considerably — I have find myself in the middle of some discussion of that type in constituent ' home . it be important to understand that background , as it help to explain why , in some instance , property owner consider that they be have payment withhold . when late payment do occur , they be never acceptable , but our datum show that they be the exception rather than the rule . property case should be conclude as soon as be practicable , within the constraint impose by the balance of the property owner ' s interest and those of the taxpayer . the evidence show — I will happily write to every right hon . and hon . member who have take part in this debate — that HS2 Ltd be succeed in close down claim , despite the considerable complexity that those claim involve . however , I acknowledge that there be a number of impact party with whom HS2 Ltd have not yet be able to reach agreement and negotiation have become challenging , and we have hear about many of they this afternoon . as I mention , I have get myself involve in many of those case to move they far along and challenge hs2 as to the position take . my hon . friend the Member for Stafford be a tireless advocate for the case that have arise in her constituency , some of which she and I have previously discuss , as she mention . she have cite some particular case during the debate ; I will write back to she with my late understanding of where matter sit regard her constituent Mr and Mrs Tabernor and Mr Collier . the same apply to other constituent case name in this debate by my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire and other . with regard to the point about intimidation — I say this as someone who chair the Transport Select Committee — I believe that everyone should be able to give clear , frank , open and transparent evidence without fear or favour . if there be any evidence of intimidation , I will of course look at it and make sure that it be eradicate . I give everyone in the House that assurance . as my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) have demand , I be determined that HS2 Ltd should continue to up its game in deal with difficult and disputed case , such as the one that have be mention today and other that I be aware of . let I touch on a few matter raise by other hon . member we have hear from but I have not mention . the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) reference a number of case . I be very happy to meet she , as I have previously . she be a tireless advocate on her constituent ' behalf and I will meet she again to discuss some of those case . I have touch on the point make by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) and look forward to meet he and go through the point he make in the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) have be a tireless advocate of the benefit that HS2 could deliver to his constituency , and it be the one part of the country that I believe need particular mention . I spend a morning with he and local Cheshire East councillor look at the potential and at what the team have bring . it will not have escape his attention that the local government Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) — have enter the Chamber . the two of we speak early this week about the need of Crewe , and we also speak to other colleague . he have be a tireless champion of the council , with the predicament that it find itself in , and when I and the local government Minister meet the team from Cheshire East , my hon . friend be certainly welcome to join we . we have make such point to other colleague , and we be determined to help and to work together . I know that the local government Minister care about these matter and will work with we to do so . I say gently to the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) — he be a fellow football player with I , as well as a good friend — that the Labour position appear to keep change . just last week , the Leader of the Opposition go to Manchester to say that HS2 would no long continue , which be slightly inconsistent with what we hear this afternoon . it may well be the case that many dispute the plan we have in place , but the plan be not to go ahead with HS2 north of Handsacre , and instead to spend that money — the £ 36 billion — on project across the country , particularly to benefit all city across the north and the midland . that be the plan , but I think we would all like to know what labour ' s plan be . be it go to deliver hs2 ? if it be not go to deliver hs2 beyond the midland , be it go to commit to the £ 36 billion that this Government be commit to level up ? I think we would all like that clarity , not least the constituent represent by all those sit behind I . will the Minister give way ? I can not because of the time — by the look on your face , Mr Deputy Speaker . let I end with three final point . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stafford and all the other Members present for tirelessly work on behalf of those affect by HS2 and for the manner in which they have engage with I . I be at their service . secondly , I welcome and accept my hon . friend ' s kind invitation to visit Stafford . I will do so , and before the spring be out . thirdly , and in conclusion , I commit to do the good that I can for property owner impact by HS2 , which include ensure the timely payment of compensation , the urgency of which have be lay bare in this debate . first , I thank the Minister for listen to the extraordinary example we have hear this afternoon of how HS2 have behave to our constituent . I thank in particular my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) , the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , my right hon . friend the Member for South Staffordshire ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) and for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) for speak in this debate . I welcome what the Minister have say , that he will visit my constituency to meet affected resident , and in particular that he will write to all of we who have speak in the debate to provide clear answer on the individual case we have raise . it be very clear from this debate that there be still considerable uncertainty over HS2 , and I welcome the fact that the Government be go to look again at resolve all outstanding compensation claim . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House call on the Government to provide compensation to people who have be affect by the construction of hs2 . Petition - Morecambe Town Council the petitioner of Morecambe , on behalf of 3 , 919 response , which be over a quarter of the household of Morecambe , request the House to take into consideration their petition against Morecambe Town Council ' s precept rise of 231 % for 2023 - 24 to create , without a full referendum , a slush fund of £ 1 million , which have be put to one side . this amount should be return by any mean possible to the constituent of Morecambe , either in the form of a complete freeze in future council tax until it be pay back or by any other mechanism that this House can employ to meet that objective . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the petitioner do not agree with the increase in the parish precept implement by Morecambe Town Council . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to review the increase in the parish precept implement by the Council and cap parish council from be able to implement a large rise in Council Tax without a formal referendum in the future . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002899 ] Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) I be very grateful for the opportunity the House have give I to bring forward this debate . all I can say be , here we go again : Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council back on the Floor of the House . before I turn to my broad critique , I do want to talk about the positive , because there be positive news about Sandwell . despite the line parrot by the fail Labour administration in Sandwell about this £ 105 million it have magicke up that it do not have , in fact the Government have help Sandwell with nearly £ 411 million of investment since 2019 , enable the community that form the six town in Sandwell to realise their potential and opportunity . we have see that in £ 65 million - worth of town deal , with £ 22 . 5 million for Tipton town centre in my constituency , £ 20 million announce for Wednesbury Friar Park and some £ 4 million on a heritage action zone in Wednesbury town centre . however , the focus of the debate be the governance of Sandwell and , in particular , the governance around such scheme . at time , I share the frustration of my constituent , who be not see the council spend the capital investment that be come through . that beg the question of why . surely it be in the council ' s interest to get this off the ground and to spend the investment now , and to see the economic and social benefit for our town come to fruition . I share the frustration of my constituent over the governance of these programme , because that simply be not happen . that be a damn indictment of a fail administration . I want to touch briefly on the community . I have be very critical of the council in my time in this place , and rightly so . it be often refer to out there as " bent Labour Sandwell " , " soviet Sandwell " or " the socialist republic of Sandwell " , but despite the failing of the crackpot Labour administration , the community that I represent have real heart and this have build a real sense of community campaign . we have see that come to fruition often when fight back against the bizarre governance of Sandwell , for instance through our successful campaign to save Walker Grange care home in Tipton in my constituency . labour - lead Sandwell council argue that it be go to turf out the resident , whose age range from 70 up to 100 , because it could not afford the cost . when our action force transparency on that , we find that Sandwell have underspent its budget by £ 2 million . again , when we put Sandwell under scrutiny , we find that we can not trust the answer we get back from it . the spirit of community campaigning be also show through the community - lead campaign that save Tipton police station . that be obviously not under the direct control of Sandwell council but it be interesting to see the Sandwell Labour leadership rubbish the campaign that the community have lead alongside myself and other , and it be even more interesting that our police and crime commissioner attempt to rubbish that campaign . he be the same pcc who be use public fund to try to launch a judicial review against the Government ' s decision to merge the Mayor and the PCC . I hope my hon . friend the Minister will relay to colleague that it would be good if , when the pcc lose that case , he be make to refund out of his personal fund the money he have waste on this ridiculous court action . let we turn to the heart of this debate , which be Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council and the stuff it have do . I could talk about a litany of thing . I could talk about the special educational need transport contract that go from have 19 provider down to two — a £ 22 . 5 million contract dole out to a friend of the disgrace former labour leader . when parent challenge the council on that , they be tell , " shut up or you will lose your transport . " they be tell that if they criticise the council on social medium , their child , some of the most vulnerable in the borough , would not be able to access the education that they need . we then have the disgraceful situation some 12 month ago of a clause be put in social tenant ’ contract , say that if they criticise the council on social medium they could face disciplinary action up to eviction . it would be a parody if it be not true . it be the socialist nightmare . we have see , once again , that child social service require improvement . that be an improvement from inadequate . I have to ask the comrade at Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council why they think that kid in my constituency do not deserve the same life chance as everyone else . to I , their failure in this space be indicative of the disdain they clearly have for the community they represent . I could talk about the failure on housing . I have be work recently , as many colleague have , on rogue developer . we have an incident recently with two estate in my constituency , where the council , in deal with a relatively new , untested developer , decide not to follow its usual course of use advance payment code — in other word , get bond ahead of time , so that be the developer to go bankrupt , the council could access capital fund to do such thing as pave the road and sort out the lighting . the council decide , for some unexplained reason , not to do that . when I challenge officer at the cabinet petition committee , they could not say why they have not do that . the political leadership of the council simply say , " other borough don ' t do it , so why would we ? " there be a complete and utter lack of accountability from these people , and they have complete disdain for the community they represent . I must touch on the waste contract and the campaign I have launch to keep our weekly bin collection . Sandwell council have enter into a £ 650 million , 25 - year contract — yes , that be right — for bin collection . the council ' s proposal be to take collection fortnightly , predicate on the basis that it would somehow save money , but it be tie into this contract . when it have sign on the dotted line for 25 year , I struggle to see how that move would save any money . as part of that , we see a strike last year run by Sandwell Labour ' s paymaster in the GMB that see fly picket and aggressive tactic . that be only stop because the community effectively rise up , counter - picket and counter - protested , and show Sandwell Labour ' s paymaster that they be not go to tolerate this anymore , because why should they ? all they see be rise taxis , fail service and fall standard . the retort we hear from the Labour administration in Sandwell be that the situation be due to 14 year of the Tories and Tory cut . that be the line labour constantly like to use . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister hear that often from Labour colleague in local government . I simply say this in response : the Labour party have lead Sandwell council for 50 year — half a century — under government of all persuasion and all colour , yet people ' s life have get bad . if you want to know why your kid can not access a decent school , do not look here ; ask Sandwell Labour . if you want to know why your street be not safe at night , ask Sandwell Labour why it be close your police station . if you want to know why you can not get your rubbish collect , ask Sandwell Labour . if you want to know why the service you pay for be not adequate , ask Sandwell Labour . it have have the cash , the investment and the resource . the point be that it can not be trust to run service in our community properly . this issue come to a head in March 2022 with the intervention by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . he make the right decision to call in the commissioner . there have be progress since , and I have be please recently by the engagement of my hon . friend the Minister — he have take a real interest in Sandwell . he be to be commend on how he have pick up this interesting brief quickly and fully , especially when there be council like Sandwell . it be such an indictment of 50 year of failure that we be still the eighth most deprived borough in the country . it be as if the Labour party in Sandwell take pride in that . it take pride in the fact that standard be drop , and it offer no reason for that or alternative on how to fix it . it seem to revel in it . it blow my mind how anyone in a position of authority — particularly elect authority — could do that when they have stewardship over the great community of the Black Country . as I say in my maiden speech , these people be grafter and fighter . they deserve so much well than this shamble , yet time and again we see these people who claim to be representative of work people — that be the big joke that any of we have ever hear — somehow revel in the fact that standard be fall and thing be not as they seem . my hon . friend have a fantastic set of community in his constituency , as I do in Wolverhampton North East . we share similar problem in the Black Country . Wolverhampton have , similarly , have 50 year of Labour administration that like to blame conservative government for their failure , but when an authority be the bad in something and every other authority be under the same Conservative Government , ultimately it be time to take responsibility . do my hon . friend share my concern that although ten of million of pound of investment be come into our constituency from this caring , level - up Conservative Government , we be not see the result , and our constituent be not feel the benefit ? I secure £ 3 million of high street regeneration funding for Wednesfield — he know it well and have visit it with I — but nearly three year later my Labour council have not put forward a plan on paper . I be sure that he have similar instance . my hon . friend be absolutely right . she be a doughty champion for the people of Wednesfield , Bushbury and the rest of her constituency . I think she share the concern that it feel like there be some run down of the clock . it feel like the officer can see the clock tick and do not want recognition to be give to anywhere else . I will say that , particularly since new face have appear among the officer at Sandwell council , it seem to be more on top of this , but there be still the concern that the political leadership of these authority see some sort of win from these thing not materialise . it be absolutely crazy . as I say , half a billion pound have be put into my borough , and yet the narrative seem to be about Tory cut . I be sure it be the same in the great city of Wolverhampton . the narrative will be , " it ' s 14 year of the Tories , " but it be not ; it be 50 year of Labour turn its back on these community . I have a solution for my hon . friend the Minister , which be coin in the campaign that have be launch with such enthusiasm : scrap Sandwell . Sandwell be an artificial construction of the Ted Heath reform of the 1970 , which bring together six very different town in the Black Country . I appreciate that he will not be able to stand at the Dispatch Box today and say yes to that , much as I would be over the moon for he to do so . there be always middle ground in how we empower our community , but the truth be that Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council , and its political leadership in particular , have bring embarrassment to the community I represent . the retort that I have have , particularly from Labour politician , have be , " well , you ' re talk the area down . " no . in the campaign that we launch in October , we have thousand of response , and 80 % of they say they do not recognise themselves as come from Sandwell . if you come from Wednesbury , you come from Wednesbury . if you be from Tipton , you be from Tipton . if you be from Ocker Hill , you be from Ocker Hill . if you be from Great Bridge , you be from Great Bridge . if you be from Smethwick , you be from Smethwick . you be not from Sandwell . what be Sandwell ? Sandwell be the name of the franciscan priory from 1 , 000 year ago . it be not a place — well , it be a place , but it be a construct place . People be proud of their town . I be proud that I live in Wednesbury , and I be proud of that town , mention in the Domesday Book 1 , 000 year ago . that be what people want to see . of course , the real - life impact be that my town in Tipton and Wednesbury have miss out because Sandwell council ' s priority have be in West Bromwich and Smethwick , all because the arbitrary threshold have not be meet because of the size of those town . clearly , there be option to be explore , and I appreciate that we can utilise many mechanism to ensure that the identity of these community be respect , accentuate and bring to the fore . that be so important to my constituent . they be proud of where they come from and the heritage of their town . they be feed up with this creation that have turn into a monster , leave they without service . we have have the ridiculous situation today where all the pay and display parking machine have be take out of the car park in Spring Head in Wednesbury . the council expect people to go online , not realise that most of the demographic who utilise that service be of an age where they be probably not digitally connected . I talk about governance ; that be the kind of lunacy and idiotic idea that come from that rabble . yet they sit there and lord it as if they have be hard do by . we need proactive government in our town , whether through an empower town council — there be example of that in the west midland — or through some other format . we need something that will safeguard our identity , and a local government structure that preserve and look after the identity of my proud town of Tipton and Wednesbury . it be as simple as that . I be look forward to the Minister ' s visit to the Black Country , and I be sure he will visit my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) on the way . our proud Black Country town have so much to offer . the governance at Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council have do nothing but bring embarrassment to those town . it be not talk down those community to highlight that . it be not talk down the community to highlight that a Labour party that have govern that area for 50 year have be to the detriment of people , who have see their service cut and their opportunity eradicate . but their aspiration have not be cut , because the people I represent be aspirational . they want to achieve , but they be block time and again by the Labour administration . I wish to finalise my remark with a quotation from history , which I hope the Minister will appreciate . as I prepare my comment , I be look for something to sum up my thought on the governance situation at Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council . I be sure that those who have study it will know where it come from : " but when a long train of abuse and usurpation , pursue invariably the same object evince a design to reduce they under absolute Despotism , it be their right , it be their duty , to throw off such government , and to provide new Guards for their future security . " my hon . friend probably know where that come from : the declaration of independence 1776 . the security and the safeguarding of the future of these proud town be at the heart of what I be here to do . they have have half a century of disservice by the shambolic Labour rabble , who have do nothing but try to eradicate their life chance and leave they bad off . that should never be the case . I look forward to hear from my hon . friend the Minister . I be so grateful for the time and effort he have put into Sandwell . he be committed to make sure we get this right . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East for her consider intervention . I thank the House and you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for hear my comment . I make my constituent a promise when I be elect to this place that , after 50 year of feeling ignore , they would never be ignore again . I hope that in this speech , I have make sure that their voice be hear loud and clear . first , I thank my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich West ( Shaun Bailey ) for secure this debate . I have be in this job for nine week . if I have a fiver for every time he have stop I in the Lobby or in the corridor to raise an issue or have a conversation about his borough council , it would certainly have buy he and I quite a good dinner . he never miss an opportunity , and he be right to do so . we use the phrase " doughty champion " quite a lot to describe colleague . he truly be one , and his constituent should be proud and pleased with the passion , concern and care with which he advocate so vociferously on their behalf , not just to I but to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and to Ministers across Government . he be to be warmly commend for all he do on behalf of his resident . my hon . friend be right to talk in the first instance about money . I will just set the scene , if I may . sandwell ' s reserve stand , as of 31 March , somewhere in the region of £ 110 . 5 million . that be very good . that speak to sensible management and ensure that fund be available for a rainy day . the 2024 - 25 provisional local government finance settlement make available £ 388 . 9 million for his council , an increase in core spending power of £ 25 . 4 million , or a 7 % increase in cash term when compare to 2023 - 24 . I therefore share his belief that to say that all the council ' s problem be root in the heartlessness and lack of thought or attention from this Government be scotch just by those figure . however , my hon . friend be right to go on to talk about the other important investment that have be make in his borough by the government : £ 69 . 5 million from the town fund ; £ 20 . 3 million from the levelling - up partnership ; £ 20 million from the levelling - up fund round 2 ; £ 20 million from the levelling - up fund round 3 ; and £ 20 million for a capital regeneration project . those be important figure and important project of themselves , but when add together , nobody could suggest that this be a party and a Government who do not care for the people of Sandwell and be not seek to do all they can , work alongside elect member be they local councillor or Members of Parliament , to help drive that figure of eighth - most deprived borough in England into a far well place . I do not think that argument stand up to challenge . what I would say to my hon . friend , and I know he will agree with I in this assessment , be that he be right to talk about the potential downside — he manifest some of they in his remark — when any one political party dominate the political scene and the landscape for a considerable period of time . I hope that what his election have demonstrate , and that of other hon . friend represent constituency in the area , be that we believe that level up be all about aspiration and ambition for all , that no part of our country be leave behind , and that there be no one who do not deserve our attention , our help and our support . I be very pleased and proud to serve in a Department in this government that have spend so much money , time and effort consider the need of Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council . we have a proud record on which we stand , and I be sure that many people in my hon . friend ' s constituency recognise that all too well . before we look to the present and the future , we have to look slightly to the past . commissioner have to go into the council because , as it recognise itself , there be serious governance issue , and problem with culture and leadership . they include allegation of serious misconduct by both councillor and officer . the council have have six different leader in six year — that make it feel a bit like this place , Mr Deputy Speaker — and three chief executive over the previous three year . that instability lead to a breakdown in trust , respect and confidence between those hold governance role at the council . on service , the time the authority spend respond to internal allegation and complaint impact on its ability to focus on service improvement . inadequate procurement and contract management arrangement lead to poor decision - making , and impact negatively on key service , include transport for child and those with special educational need . it be those trigger that prompt my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to send in the cavalry . he be right to do so and I know that my hon . Friend applaud my right hon . friend for the action he take . that action have work , and I want to pay tribute to the current leadership of Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council . be they get everything right ? no , but there again — I must share a secret with my hon . friend — neither do Ministers , all the time . we be all human . to err be human ; to forgive , as we know , be divine . however , significant improvement have be make , which have allow the commissioner to continue to refer , in their publish report to the Department , to clear trajectory of improvement . that mean not just improvement in the output of service to those who be most in need , but a significant step change in the way in which the council have order and organise itself and its approach to governance . sometimes admit when one be wrong and face the problem be the big challenge , and once that be overcome , the route to recovery appear clear . it be not without stumble block and stone and it will not be without pause along the way , but the council leader have make significant progress , and as I say , they should be both congratulate and encourage . when the position of the commissioner cease — and we will be look to that in due course — the Local Government Association will continue to work with the council to ensure that that path of progress , that path of improvement , which I be hopeful and confident that local resident have start to see or will soon start to see , be continue . fall back into the old way of performance , or lack of performance , will not be tolerate . it will come as no surprise — and I say this not as a threat , but as a statement of fact — that as with any authority that have find itself in a position whereby commissioner have have to be send in , progress have be make and the work of those commissioner can be draw to a conclusion within the envisaged timetable , we will keep a weather eye , a kindly eye if you will , the eye of a paternal godfather , on a council that be still try to do its good . we will continue to be there to support , advise and encourage , because the depth of the change that the council need to be make will by definition necessitate that . my hon . friend talk of the abolition of Sandwell council . he will not be surprised to know that I be about to repeat the dictum of the Government . we will , of course , always respond to any reorganisation of local government , but that must be from the grassroot up . support must be demonstrate at political level and community level , from the business community and from other public service provider , and a clear case must be make . I have to say — I hope this give some clarity to my hon . friend , although I appreciate that it may not be the clarity he seek , but I also hope it give both certainty to the council and an indication to the resident , the council taxpayer and , more important , the user of its service of the improvement it have make — that I fear that a change in the architecture of the borough at this stage would prove a distraction from the vital improvement work that be ongoing . of course there be way to improve scrutiny , and of course there be way , through the localism agenda , to empower the town , particularly those historic town where there be a great sense of place and identity . however , I suggest to my hon . friend that he should work with the council leadership to explore those opportunity to give a much great sense of place to the town with which those who live in they feel such a close affinity . we be make a huge investment in Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council , in monetary term and in term of time and energy . why do we do this ? we do it because we care , and because we understand the important role that local government play in the fabric of our nation — the powerful role that it play in create a sense of place and deliver change , respond to the change need of the most vulnerable and those who seek to improve on the agenda of hope and aspiration for change . with my hon . friend and other colleague , with an engaged council that have a new and improved outlook , I have every confidence that all of we pull together can deliver for the people of Sandwell . question put and agree to . House adjourn .