business before Questions Recall of MPs Act 2015 : Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West I have receive notification from the Petition Officer for the constituency of Rutherglen and Hamilton West , in respect of the recall petition for Margaret Ferrier . the recall petition close on Monday 31 July . as more than 10 % of those eligible to sign the petition do so , the petition be successful and the seat be accordingly vacant . I shall cause the text of the notification to be publish in the Votes and Proceedings and in the Official Report . [ the notification will appear at the end of today ' s proceeding . ] New Members the follow member take and subscribe the Oath , or make and subscribe the Affirmation , require by law : Keir Alexander Mather , for Selby and Ainsty . Steven Tuckwell , Uxbridge and South Ruislip . Sarah Joanne Dyke , Somerton and Frome . New Writs order , that Mr Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough constituency of Rutherglen and Hamilton West in the room of Margaret Ferrier , against whom , since her election for the say Borough constituency , a recall petition have be successful . — ( Owen Thompson . ) order , that on the 12th day of September , Mr Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the County constituency of Mid Bedfordshire , in the room of Nadine Vanessa Dorries , who since her election to the said County constituency have be appoint to the Office of Steward or Bailiff of his Majesty ' s Three Chiltern Hundreds of Stoke , Desborough and Burnham , in the county of Buckingham . — ( Simon Hart . ) speaker ' s statement I wish to inform the House that I have receive a letter from the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) inform I of his resignation as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I therefore declare the Chair vacant . I will announce the arrangement for the election of the new Chair in due course . oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — Regional Inequalities in Employment what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of its policy on reduce regional inequality in employment . what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of its policy on reduce regional inequality in employment . what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of its policy on reduce regional inequality in employment . it be good to be back , Mr Speaker . I trust that you have at least some rest during the recess . let I also extend my welcome to the new member who have just take their seat . the regional employment rate gap be 7 . 7 percentage point , which be 1 . 2 percentage point less than the gap in 2010 and a low figure by historical standard . as the Marmot review show , there be a strong correlation between index of deprivation and addiction . this issue affect all region , but especially the poor region . what policy be in place across the region to address the issue of addiction and to help more people remain in and enter employment , particularly in the north - west ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware of universal support and the WorkWell pilot . in exactly the area to which he have refer , they be bring together healthcare and help with seek work , which my party believe to be one of the good way to remedy the issue he have mention , include mental health issue . it be 87 year since the Jarrow march against unemployment , and my constituent be still be let down . we have a high percentage of people claim unemployment benefit than the national average , and the reality be show to be bad when hide unemployment be factor in . accord to the Centre for Cities , nine in 10 of the place with the high hidden unemployment rate be in the north . instead of continue their false rhetoric on level up , when will the Government stop neglect and start invest in our northern community ? I have no problem at all with defend the Government ' s record on employment . there be now nearly 4 million more people in employment than there be in 2010 , include about 2 million more woman , and unemployment across the country , include in the north , be at a near - historic low . in his blog today on ConservativeHome , Lord Ashcroft say : " on the cost of living , two third of voter . . . think the Government could do more to help but be choose not to . " give the regional disparity in earning , do the Secretary of State accept that the roll - out of fair pay agreement provide sectoral minimum term , as outline in Labour ' s " a New Deal for Working People " , would not only boost the economy but address the blight of in - work poverty and insecure work that be have an impact on so many household in my constituency and throughout the country ? the hon . Gentleman raise the issue of support during the cost of live squeeze that we be experience . my Department have be responsible for distribute million of payment to the most vulnerable people , include £ 900 in total to 8 million low - income household , £ 150 to 6 million disabled people and the £ 300 payment to pensioner . on the question of work , we put up the national living wage by over 9 % to £ 10 . 42 this April . in part of my constituency , the healthy life expectancy be now just 53 to 54 — a true regional inequality if ever there be one . that mean that people — even those in the Minister ' s age group — be drop out of work far too early , which be not good for they or the economy . what step be the Department take as a consequence of the health and disability White Paper to address this serious inequality ? I have already mention the measure that we bring forward at the last Budget , include universal support and WorkWell . the Government be of course constantly look at how we can go far in that respect . on the over - 50 specifically , the midlife mot that we be run , the returnership and the change to the pension tax arrangement be all help to bear down on economic inactivity in that group . the good news from Kettering be that , at 3 . 6 % , the overall unemployment rate be below the national average of 3 . 7 % . the bad news from Kettering be that there be 420 18 to 24 - year - old without work and the youth unemployment rate be 6 . 2 % , versus the national average of 4 . 7 % . what be the Secretary of State do to address youth unemployment ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that since 2010 , youth unemployment have fall by over 40 % , which be the mirror image of what happen under the last Labour Government when it rise by over 40 % . on his specific question , I point he towards the youth offer , which we have recently announce we will be expand to even more young people . I call the shadow Minister . I think the Secretary of State understand that , while unemployment be at a historic low , economic activity be the big challenge before we , particularly when it come to regional economic inactivity and the huge , near 10 - point gap across the region . the east midland , London , the north - east , the north - west and the west midland all have high inactivity rate than the south - east . the Tories have have 13 year to close that gap , so can I ask the Secretary of State : be his plan really to make level up a reality by leave it to Labour ? give that there have never be a Labour Government who have leave office with unemployment anything other than high than they find it in the first place , I do not think I would leave employment to Labour . on the hon . Lady ' s point , economic inactivity be important and it be a major focus for my Department . it have of course reduce substantially since its peak during the pandemic , have fall by around 350 , 000 . cost of living : Means - test Benefit Claimants what step his Department be take to help claimant in receipt of means - test benefit with increase in the cost of living . the Government recognise the pressure people be face and we have act . we be provide cost of live support worth over £ 94 billion between 2022 and 2024 to help household and individual with those rise cost . that include cost of living payment total up to £ 900 in 2023 - 24 for over 8 million household on eligible mean - test benefit . we successfully deliver the first payment of £ 301 to 8 . 3 million household early this year , and the second payment of £ 300 will be pay in the autumn . the Government be indeed give generous cost of live support to household on certain mean - test benefit this winter , but if someone be on one of those mean - test benefit and they earn £ 1 more , they have the potential to lose the full payment . I wonder if the Minister have notice any change in people ' s behaviour as a result of that disincentive to take on extra work . it be vital that those on low income , or indeed those who be keen to work more , see the incentive . in the spring Budget , we announce an ambitious package of measure to support people to take up work and , importantly , to progress by make sure that they be always well off . we be also support they with a significant investment in childcare and , of course , the large ever cash increase to the national living wage , take it up to £ 10 . 42 . I would say to those people that they should look at the benefit calculator on gov . uk , because they will always be well off in work . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . rent have rise very sharply over the past couple of year , but the support for people claim means - test benefit to pay their rent , determine by local housing allowance , have not change at all since 2020 — it have be completely frozen . I write to the Secretary of State about this over the summer . be the Minister able to give the House any assurance that the forthcoming benefit uprating statement will include a realistic increase in local housing allowance ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman be very interested in this subject , as be I . again , there be help for household , with the local housing allowance rate be set at the 30th percentile in 2020 . the Government be project to spend around £ 31 billion , or around 1 . 2 % of GDP , on support for renter in 2023 - 24 . it be absolutely right that we support people to be well off . the LHA be not intend to cover all rent in all area , but I take a close interest in this subject . unemployment what assessment his Department have make of trend in the level of unemployment over the last 12 month . what assessment his Department have make of trend in the level of unemployment over the last 12 month . I welcome our three new colleague . the independent Office for National Statistics estimate that , notwithstanding a recent uptick , the unemployment rate be now almost half the rate we inherit in 2010 and be back to pre - pandemic level . actually , accord to the Government ' s own figure , three and a half year after the pandemic begin , employment be not back to pre - pandemic level . will the Minister set out what the unanticipated rise in unemployment say about the underlie health of our economy ? it be not look good , be it ? with great respect , I disagree . employment be at record level . vacancy have be down for the past 10 quarter . Payroll employment be at a record high . pay be up and inflation be down . we be do an awful lot well than that lot would . we have see a summer of job cut in my Bradford South constituency , with both Morrisons and Solenis announce major redundancy . do the Minister agree that this show that the Government ' s plan to grow the economy be fail ? I should make the point that payroll employment be at a record high . there be 4 million more people in work than in 2010 , and the unemployment rate be down to 4 . 2 % across the UK — that be a near record low . our jobcentre be clearly do a fantastic job , and I fully support all the work that be go on in Bradford to try to address these issue . inflation and Food price : Pensioners what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of trend in the level of ( a ) inflation and ( b ) food price on pensioner ’ income . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of trend in the level of ( a ) inflation and ( b ) food price on pensioner ’ income . in April , the state pension see its large ever rise of 10 . 1 % , thank to the triple lock protecting pensioner . we know that 770 , 000 pensioner be eligible for pension credit but be not receive it . a few month ago , I join my local citizen advice bureau to organise a pension credit action day . as a result , an additional £ 200 , 000 be draw down to people across Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney . the Government have the datum and could take a much more targeted approach to get eligible people to apply , so why have they not take that action ? when will we see more action from the Government ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the work he be do in his constituency . I assure he that that be exactly what the Government be do . we recently launch an " invitation to claim " trial , which have be roll out in 10 constituency and be use housing benefit datum to target those who might also be eligible for pension credit . we will report back on the result of that trial later this year . it might be hard to imagine on a sunny day like today , but winter be just around the corner . the reality for many worried pensioner in my constituency be that this winter there will be a choice between heating and eat . we have a Government who be tiptoe around the real issue while our constituent struggle to make end meet . when will the Government make a real plan to tackle the cost of live crisis and implement meaningful action to help thousand of pensioner in poverty ? with respect to the hon . Lady , that be exactly what we be do . that be why we have put the cost of living payment in place , which be worth £ 900 to all those on pension credit , and why a cost of live pensioner payment worth £ 300 be come out in the winter . all the while the Labour Mayor of London be charge pensioner £ 12 . 50 when they want to drive to the hospital . clearly , there be a stigma attach to claim pension credit , because this be on poor pensioner who desperately need the money . what action can my hon . friend take to remove that stigma ? my constituency have recently be add to the pilot , and I be look forward to its result , because elderly people deserve to get the money they need to fulfil their life . my hon . friend be absolutely right on that , and I praise all the work he have do in his constituency on pension credit . we be try to do exactly what he set out : encourage as many people as possible to claim this important benefit , at a time when they be go to need it most . I note that across the House good work have be do in individual constituency . I call the shadow Minister . as inflation rise , be able to top up pension contribution be vital for many part - time worker , who would otherwise not be able to claim the full state pension . however , a Daily Mail investigation show that the Government be fail to accurately record people ' s top - up contribution . pensioner be terrify that their money have simply disappear , so when will the Government get a grip of this terrible problem ? when will minister show that they understand the pressure on family and pensioner due to the cost of living crisis ? with the comprehensive package of support I have talk about today , we have show that we be take action during the cost of live crisis to help pensioner as much as we can . we know that accuracy be the most important thing when it come to the state pension , which be why we have take action very quickly to correct issue where they have occur , for example , with LEAP — the legal entitlement and administrative practice exercise . we will do the same in all such case . employment : Essex what step he be take to increase employment in Essex . I know that my right hon . friend be a champion for job creation in Essex , where our jobcentre be work with a range of employer and partner to address recruitment on an ongoing basis . for example , last Wednesday , Essex jobcentre host a recruitment event at stansted airport to match constituent of hers , and of my right hon . friend the Members for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) and for Braintree ( James Cleverly ) , and of my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) , to dozen of catering , hospitality and logistic - base job . Essex be a powerhouse on job and employment , but there be always more to do and business be say that they be find barrier to create more job . will the Minister give an update on how he be work across government to create a labour market strategy to help enable business to recruit , to lower taxis and burden for business , and , in particular , to make it easy for small business in county such as Essex to start employ more people and to recruit ? I endorse pretty much everything that my right hon . Friend say . clearly , we be work with other Departments to ensure that we be do everything possible to address recruitment . for example , on a recent visit I see the t - level be pioneer at South Essex College ; I have see the apprenticeship that be be drive forward locally ; and , recently , in Witham , the " midlife mot " take place in the middle of last month to address old worker . however , there be more to do and we be certainly try to do it across department . in Essex , as in many other part of the UK , the number of people off work because of chronic illness be significantly high now than it be before the pandemic . force sick people into work be not an appropriate way of deal with that , so will the Minister confirm that work capability assessment will be reasonable and will consider all aspect of the individual ' s life in assess whether they really be fit for work ? the hon . Lady ' s constituency be a long way from Essex , Mr Speaker ! she will , however , be aware that over 1 million more disabled people be in work and that the WCA will continue on an ongoing basis until there be reform . Pension Credit what step his Department be take to increase the number of eligible people claim pension credit . the DWP have conduct an extensive campaign across tv , radio and social medium , and with partner organisation , to boost pension credit take - up , with a number of push be make before cost of live payment deadline . I be pleased to tell the House that that be work ; application be up by 75 % in the year to May . one of my Chelmsford constituent send I a message that have be circulate recently . it suggest that asylum seeker be entitle to receive more in benefit than pensioner ; I believe that be not accurate . for the record , will the Minister confirm what support be available for pensioner , compare with that for asylum seeker ? let I reassure my right hon . friend and her constituent that asylum seeker be give no recourse to public fund . they be give payment for their food and shelter , but they be unable to claim benefit . pensioner in her constituency will receive a state pension , if they qualify , which for the first time be worth on average more than £ 200 per week or over £ 10 , 000 a year . pensioner who have not build up sufficient contribution may be eligible for pension credit , worth on average £ 3 , 500 per year , to top up their income . they be also eligible to receive the cost of live payment , if they ever receive pension credit , and the pensioner cost of live payment . over the summer , I hold event in village across Wyre in my constituency . I be approach by many pensioner who be suffer because of the cost of living crisis ; pension credit be just not plug the gap . at my " chat with Cat " event in Pilling , a constituent ask I why 400 , 000 more pensioner be live in poverty than when Labour leave office . will the Minister answer that question ? there be 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty than when Labour leave office . personal Independence Payment assessment what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the assessment process for personal independence payment . assessment play an important part in ensure people get the right entitlement . it be the claimant ' s chance to give all the information need to help make the right decision . the assessment , which measure the impact of a health condition on a person ' s ability to live independently , be keep under review ; I be sure the hon . Lady be familiar with the test and trial set out in the White Paper . the Minister will know that one challenge with PIP be how to accurately assess fluctuate condition . More than half a million people in the UK be live with Crohn ' s disease or colitis , but few than 3 % be in receipt of PIP . past applicant have say that while fatigue be the most disable symptom , they feel that that be the least represent symptom in their assessment . [ interruption . ] would the Minister consider introduce a fatigue rating scale to PIP assessment to more effectively capture what be , for many , the most debilitating component of their condition ? Minister , the reason I be cough be that the question be rather long . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her interest in this issue . through the White Paper reform , we have advocate for a number of test and trial , include one that focus specifically on well capture fluctuating condition . I would be keen to have conversation with she about that . the Government be commit to work with charity and those that be interested , include disabled people , to ensure we get those reform right . I agree with the importance of have a timely assessment . last week , a constituent raise her case with I : she fill in her renewal form nine month ago , but have be give less than two week ' notice for an assessment next week . surely we need to have assessment when the form be fresh and accurate , not nine month later ? the wait time for PIP decision have come down considerably in recent time , but I be not complacent about that , as we want to go far in see those wait reduce . for example , be able to apply online be an important part of that journey , as well as improve interface and make sure people provide all the right information up front . if we can provide well support for that , it will help we make decision soon , which can only be welcome . I urge the Minister to look specifically at how PIP be assess for those with brain injury . it be well know that the effect of a brain injury may vary over time — people go up and down , and many who have have a brain injury want to give a very positive impression of how they be , which give a false impression when it come to assess whether they need PIP . I be very sympathetic to the hon . Gentleman ' s point — he have be a passionate and tireless campaigner on the issue of brain injury for a long time . these be exactly the sort of issue that we want to look at as we take this reform forward . I mention our change around fluctuate condition , but we also want to look at issue such as expert assessor and have specialist work with individual to carry out the assessment to ensure a proper understanding and , hopefully , build confidence around decision making . our excellent , proactive Minister be no doubt test out concept ahead of the forthcoming White Paper . do that include extend the severe condition criterion so that people with condition such as motor neurone disease can automatically access support without the need of an assessment ? I be fortunate that my hon . friend be one of my predecessor as Minister for Disabled People , as he be a tireless campaigner on these issue and have do much to take the agenda forward . on the severe disability group , we remain committed to this work . we have work with an expert group of specialist health professional to draw up a set of draft criterion . we have start initial testing at small scale , and we be look to scale that up as we move forward , because we want to get this right and we think that this be a significant change . access to Work what step his Department be take to help reduce waiting time for access to work assessment . whether his Department plan to take step to reduce the time take by the decision - make process for application to the access to work scheme . access to Work have receive a significant increase in application over the past year and have recruit new staff to meet the increase demand and reduce the time it take to make decision . we be also transform the Access to work service through increase digitalisation that will make the service more efficient and the application process easier , and improve the time take from application through to decision . I think the Minister know that the wait time be too long for all applicant , but may I draw his attention to an event in Cambridge that I host early this year with the local jobcentre where we highlight job opportunity for the neurodivergent community ? will he tell we what impact these long wait have on people who be neurodivergent ? I be sure the hon . Gentleman will be pleased to know that , last week , 88 % of claim be pay within 10 day and that we be take step to drive further improvement . the online application capacity that come on stream in June be a significant part of that , but we be also put additional staff on to processing claim . we be streamline various process to ensure that people get access to that support soon . anecdotally , official be say that that be begin to bear fruit . what we be not do be speed up that process at the cost of get the right decision and the right outcome . we will continue to move this forward , and we be already make progress . a decade ago , the Government ' s Sayce review recommend support 100 , 000 disabled people through specialist employment programme , but , last year , access to work help just 38 , 000 , and Versus Arthritis and other organisation that support people navigate this difficult system see a tripling in the delay . when will the Department meet the 100 , 000 target and end the delay hit disabled people , employer and the UK economy ? like the hon . Gentleman , I be passionate about the positive difference that access to work make in term of open up employment opportunity for people . he will be aware of the passport that we have introduce to help well understand people ' s need and passporte that between job and between , for example , education and employment . I refer he back to the step that we have take to see improvement in the journey time , but we will continue to work tirelessly to make sure that people get the Access to work help as quickly as possible . I call the shadow Minister . in January , it be find that the Access to Work backlog have treble since February 2020 , rise to more than 25 , 000 . in June , the Minister claim additional resource be be put into Access to work . will he inform the House exactly how many additional staff be work to clear the backlog and when he expect it to return to pre - pandemic level ? his Government say that they want to get more people into work , yet disabled people be miss out on job because of unacceptable delay at the DWP . for the House ' s benefit , let I provide the full - time equivalent staffing level in the Access to work team a full six month ago and once the staff at Bradford have move to access to Work . the figure stand at 375 . 22 full - time equivalent in March 2023 , and at 462 . 84 on 4 September 2023 . that figure be expect to stand at 530 . 41 full - time equivalent by the end of October 2023 with the additional staff move to the Access to work team in Bradford . I direct the hon . Lady ' s attention again to the figure from last week that 88 % of claim be pay within 10 day . this be a priority for I as the Minister for Disabled People and for the Department as a whole . two - child Limit : child Poverty what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the two - child limit on trend in the level of child poverty . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the two - child limit on trend in the level of child poverty . the Government ' s firm belief be that the good route out of poverty be through work . in the most recent statistic — in 2021 - 22 — there be 400 , 000 few child live in absolute poverty after housing cost than in 2009 - 10 . a recent study by the University of York find that the two - child limit and the benefit cap have contribute to rise child poverty , which , ally to wide benefit cut , have impact large family disproportionately . give the grow weight of evidence that family be be push far into hardship , will the Government finally acknowledge the real harm that their cruel and callous welfare policy be cause , and reverse they ? family on benefit should face the same financial choice when decide to grow their family as those support themselves solely through work . a benefit structure adjust automatically to family size be unsustainable . a report by the Child Poverty Action Group show that the two - child limit affect one in 10 child across the UK . it find that abolish the policy would be the most cost - effective action that the Government could take to reduce child poverty . why will the Minister not take that action ? be child poverty so low on his priority list that he have not consider it , or do he consider it and then decide that vulnerable child just be not worth it ? the Government be commit to a sustainable long - term approach to tackle poverty and support people on low income . we will spend around £ 276 billion through the welfare system in 2023 - 24 , include around £ 124 billion on people of work age and child . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister seem to forget that the two - child limit impact people who be on in - work benefit . the only exemption to the two - child limit be if a woman can prove that her third or a subsequent child have be bear as a result of rape . how many people have the Minister ' s Department ask to prove that they have be rape in order to get an exemption to the two - child limit ? we do not use the language use by the hon . Gentleman , but I will of course write to he . I be disappointed that the Minister do not know , because his Department have make 2 , 590 woman prove and relive the ordeal of be rape , simply to get that state support , but give that the Labour party and the Conservatives support the two - child policy and rape clause , do it give he comfort to know that when the " Ghost of George Osborne Future " come into office , his legacy in promote astronomical child poverty rate will be safe in the hand of the Blairites on the Labour Benches ? I can only repeat that , compare with 2009 - 10 , there be 400 , 000 few child in absolute poverty after housing cost . Benefit Fraud what recent progress his Department have make on tackle benefit fraud . we continue to bear down on fraud and error . it decrease by 10 % in 2022 - 23 . there be of course still more to be do , which be why we be invest £ 900 million to reduce that figure still far by £ 2 . 4 billion by 2024 - 25 . during the pandemic , the Government rightly get support out to people as quickly as possible , but that inevitably mean that error be make and some people take advantage of the situation . what be be do to clamp down on fraud and error in universal credit ? a huge amount , include the target case review , which over the next five year will review hundred of thousand of universal credit claim to look for fraud and error . of course , we use emerge new technology for that purpose as well . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . I absolutely support the principle that those who carry out benefit fraud must be make accountable , but what I find in my office — I think that other in the Chamber will probably find this as well — be that many people have fill in an application form , document or review and inadvertently tick the wrong box . by do so , they have leave themselves in a very difficult position where they find that they have to make a repayment . sometimes people need help at the initial stage to ensure that they get it right . what can be do to help those people so that they do not get into debt that they do not expect to be in ? there be help within jobcentre . there be also Citizens Advice , and a help to claim process available there . when people make genuine error and when they have be overpay for various reason , we be of course sympathetic , to ensure that we do not put they in a position where it be incredibly difficult for they to repay those amount . Labour Market Inactivity what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of its policy on reduce the level of inactivity in the labour market . we be do a great deal to bear down on economic inactivity . as of August this year , the figure show that over half the increase in economic activity that occur during the pandemic have since unwound . that be more than 300 , 000 people into work . the Secretary of State ' s comment suggest that unemployed over - 50 should consider become delivery rider clearly show that the Government be fail to help old worker into stable employment . rather than glorify precarious work in the gig economy , will he commit to roll out a plan that give old worker the dignity , respect and support they deserve to rejoin the workforce ? I think it be very unfortunate when any Member of this House look down on a certain category of job that be employ hundred of thousand of people perfectly satisfactorily . in fact , in that interview I say : " I think as a department we shouldn ' t be prescriptive , " — refer to the over - 50 — " so we ' re not here to start pontificate about whether people should or should not go back into work " . hopefully that have put the record straight . we be do a huge amount to support those over 50 who have retire prematurely , include the midlife MOT , returnerships and the tax change we have make around pension , and we will continue to support people . that be why we be see those inactivity rate above 50 decline quite strongly . Sickness and sick pay be an anchor when it come to get people back into work , as well as help to grow the economy . that be why the Centre for Progressive Change produce an excellent report that have support from member across this House . will my right hon . friend therefore meet I and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who have also support it , to look at the proposal make , so that we can really help to improve sick pay — something that have the backing of 75 % of british business ? I would be very happy for either myself or the relevant Minister to meet my hon . friend or my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . I call the shadow Minister . we all want to see both unemployment and economic inactivity as low as possible , but the Office for National Statistics , quote approvingly by the Minister a few minute ago , report that this spring ' s quarter show a large fall in the number of people move from economic inactivity into employment , and that the net movement from employment to economic inactivity be the large since the covid autumn of 2020 . give that this be the Department ' s priority , what assessment have he make of why this be go wrong ? my assessment of economic inactivity be that it be fall ; it have fall by around 350 , 000 or more since its peak during the pandemic . that leave we below the average rate of economic inactivity across the G7 , the European Union and the OECD . we be make real progress and will continue to do so . unsuccessful Benefit Decisions overturn on Appeal what estimate his Department have make of the number and proportion of unsuccessful benefit decision that be overturn on appeal in the last 12 month . our aim be to make the right decision as early as possible in a claim . in 2022 - 23 , there be 80 , 000 social security and child support appeal tribunal hearing , with 50 , 000 overturn . we recognise that the overturn rate at appeal be high . however , the number must be see in the context of overall decision . the majority of appeal tribunal hearing relate to PIP . since PIP be introduce , 8 % of initial decision have be appeal and 4 % overturn at a hearing . the Minister be be very selective in his use of statistic . the most recent tribunal stat show that an increase number of case , the vast majority , be be overturn — something that be certainly bear out by my constituent contact I . why be we not get it right first time ? surely it be a huge waste of resource to be take so many case to tribunal ? there be no advantage to anybody in the right outcome not be achieve at the very early point . the hon . Lady ask why we often see tribunal reach different decision . there be a number of reason , for example , draw different conclusion on the same evidence , cogent evidence be present orally within those tribunal , or even perhaps write evidence be provide at the hearing that have not previously be share . we be take step , include have present officer feed back to the Department , to ensure that more decision be get right at the first opportunity . Social Mobility : young People what step his Department be take to improve social mobility among young people . what step his Department be take to improve social mobility among young people . every day , our work coach help people of all age and all background to overcome barrier , build their confidence and move into and progress in work . for young people , we have specialise support via the DWP youth offer . we have extend our Jobcentre support for people in work and on low income , help they to increase their earning , to move into well - pay , quality job and to improve their prospect through in - work progression . we be also provide additional work coach time and boost the skill support , mean that we be truly open up opportunity for all . I welcome my hon . friend ' s strong commitment to social mobility , and I share her approach . however , what be the Government do to ensure that young people in my constituency of Bexleyheath and Crayford have the job that they need and great opportunity to succeed ? I agree and be determined to ensure that everyone , regardless of their background or postcode , can succeed in Bexleyheath and Crayford and beyond . as part of the DWP youth offer , we have a youth hub serve my right hon . friend ' s constituency , work in partnership with YouthBuild Ventures , to help young people to build their confidence with tailor wraparound support and to move into local job . degree apprenticeship be a great way for those who be socially less well off to get into employment and avoid the cost associate with get a degree through other route , so what step be the Minister take to help more people achieve that ambition ? I agree that it be key that young people get the right opportunity to progress , thrive and move into long - term sustainable work . apprenticeship be crucial in drive growth and social mobility . they boost business skill and improve people ' s earning and progression opportunity . my hon . friend will be pleased to see a new youth hub open in Walsall shortly , and that our work coach have be work with Walsall College on place - base tailored employability support for his area . the big bar to young people find employment in the lake and the dale be the fact that there be nowhere affordable for they to live — average house price be 12 time average income , and the long - term rent sector have collapse into the airbnb sector . will the Minister make the Lake district and the Yorkshire dale special pilot area to ensure that the only home we build there be affordable one for people who will make their life there , work and contribute to our economy , so that we do not run out of workforce ? I think we can agree on one thing : the hon . Gentleman ' s area be a very special one . in the meantime , we have recruit at the DWP 37 progression lead who will work locally with employer and jobcentre to sort that progression and retention challenge , but I think some of his question be for a different Department . employment : North Devon what step his Department be take to increase employment in North Devon constituency . the Jobcentre team in North Devon be work day and night to fill the vacancy in my hon . friend ' s constituency . that include invite employer into the Jobcentre Plus each week , and have upcoming event on sector - base work academy programme , include one that be about to happen with the NHS trust in Barnstaple . unemployment in North Devon be well below the national average due to the high proportion of retired people and a lack of home those work can afford . business and the public sector alike be report high vacancy level . what step be my hon . friend take to ensure that we do not see further business closure because of a lack of home that worker can afford ? I visit North Devon in April to meet my hon . friend and discuss those issue . she have my full support and that of the Department in her work to ensure that we address those problem . clearly , those matter be be address on an ongoing basis by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but I can assure she that she have my full support . Workplace Sickness Absence what step his Department be take with Cabinet colleague to help reduce sickness absence in the workplace . Sickness , and support those who be sick in the workplace , be an important focus for the Department , which be why we be consult on occupational health and ensure that more business take it up as something to offer their employee . seventeen million working day be lose every year because of negative workplace culture and staff wellbee . that be partly down to bullying , which be prevalent across many workplace . what step be the Secretary of State take to consider workplace culture , particularly bully at work , and will he meet I to discuss my bullying and respect at work Bill , which would put a recourse into law ? like the hon . Lady , I and my ministerial colleague take bully in the workplace extremely seriously . there be no place for that in our country . I would be very happy for she to have a meeting with the relevant DWP Minister . High Income Child Benefit charge : Gender Pension Gap what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the high income child benefit charge on the gender pension gap . in April , we announce plan to address this issue by introduce a retrospective national insurance credit , which will ensure that more people — especially woman — have the opportunity to obtain a full state pension . the high income child benefit charge be potentially a scandal wait to happen . currently , family have to apply for a benefit they know they be not entitle to so that the stay - at - home parent — usually the mother — get the national insurance credit that they need for her state pension . it be good to hear that the Government be do something , but they need to reform the process far . will they agree to at least put some comms in ? I certainly have not hear of the change in April . I be glad that the hon . Lady agree with those change . I assure she that we will be bring they forward as soon as we can . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . may I begin by welcome my new opposite number , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , to her post ? I know she will agree that it be an honour and a privilege to be associate with this Department , whether on the Opposition Benches or the Government Benches , and the very important mission of look after the most vulnerable , which I know we both share . I look forward to a constructive engagement with she in the week and month to come . my Department continue to focus on support the most vulnerable through cost of living payment , pension credit and the benefit system more generally ; bear down on fraud and error ; and promote work and , in particular — as we have be discuss — reduce economic inactivity . will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the recent decision on the national disability strategy , which allow we to get on and improve the life of so many disabled people ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I very much welcome the Court of Appeal ' s decision in July , mean that the national disability strategy be lawful . the Government be now able to continue with the important work of implement that long - term strategy , and I can confirm that my hon . friend the Minister for disabled People will shortly come forward with further detail of some of the individual commitment we will be make around that strategy . I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to her position . thank you , Mr Speaker , and I thank the Secretary of State for his kind word . however , whatever he say about economic inactivity , it remain a serious problem in this country , with the UK lag behind all other G7 country in term of workforce participation since the pandemic . indeed , last month , the number of people off work due to long - term sickness hit an all - time high . what be this Government ' s response ? the Chancellor tell the over - 50 to get off the golf course , and the DWP Secretary tell they to literally get on their bike . be not the truth that this Government ' s failure to cut waiting list , sort social care and have a proper plan for reform our jobcentre be harm individual and our economy as a whole ? to the extent that the hon . Lady be suggest that economic inactivity be bad in our country than in all other economy , or all similar economy — I think that be what she say — that simply be not the case . it be true that economic inactivity spike during the pandemic ; none the less , as I say early , the average rate be low than the average across the OECD , the EU and the G7 . the hon . Lady mention those who be long - term sick and disabled . that be why we be bring forward pilot such as WorkWell and roll out universal support , to make sure we bring the world of work together with the world of health , to the betterment of those who we look after . this be not just about the over - 50 . be the Secretary of State aware that the big relative jump in economic inactivity due to sickness be among young people , with mental health be the big concern ? Labour have a plan to transform mental health in this country , pay for by close private equity loophole . when will this Government act and put a proper plan in place ? there be a proper plan in place . I invite the hon . Lady to spend some time look more closely at the announcement that have be make , particularly at the time of the last fiscal statement , and especially those about WorkWell , universal support , and the work we be do with the national health service and other agency to make sure — as I say — that we bring together the world of work and the world of health and provide support , particularly for those with mental health condition . the Health and Safety Executive website currently make no mention of the aerate concrete issue that we all hear about at the end of last week . can we be assure that the Executive have the resource and motivation to get that guidance out there , so that employer and other building owner know what they should be do in this situation ? the HSE ' s focus have be on raise awareness of RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — through its engagement and stakeholder group via the public sector , and this be actually raise in a bulletin back in April 2021 . I will look into the point my hon . friend have make , but I be certain there have be clear guidance to those who need it . thousand of woman who have be underpaid their state pension due to departmental mistake will be force to wait until the end of 2024 to see this error address . do the Minister really think this be acceptable ? the hon . Lady ask about this last time , and I believe I inform she previously that all alive people will be receive the benefit they be entitle to by the end of this year . what action be the Government take to deal with the difficulty that many disabled people face with access the support they need ? in particular , have there be a move back to make face - to - face contact part of the assessment and decision in the benefit system ? we have make available a diversity of assessment channel to people , but the key point be that anybody who want to have a face - to - face appointment be able to have one . they can request one and that will be facilitate , and I think that be important . Jobcentres will be at the leading edge of deliver on our new support employment programme — universal support — and we have WorkWell come on stream as well . we do not want to write anybody off . where people want to work or to try to work , we should be support that wherever we can , and that be precisely what we be all about . a constituent of mine have cerebral palsy , a lifelong condition for which there be no prospect of improvement and which affect her mobility and balance . despite this , she have face repeat unnecessary and inaccurate reassessment for the personal independence payment , and she lose her PIP mobility after the most recent assessment . the DWP justify its decision by say that it be advise that her last fall be over three month prior to the consultation . what kind of system demand that people with lifelong condition regularly have to hurt themselves to receive the support they be entitle to ? I would obviously want to see the detail of the case in question before comment on it , so perhaps the hon . Member could kindly share those detail with I . one of the thing we be focus on be get to a place where people with condition or disability that be unlikely to improve or be only likely to deteriorate be not have to go through repeat assessment . that be the objective we be work towards through the White Paper reform . [ interruption . ] I hear a lot of chuntering from the Opposition . I would be absolutely delighted if they would get on and support our reform so we can make those improvement . universal credit have be hugely effective in make sure it always pay to work , but for jobseeker with no saving who use to be pay daily or weekly the five - week wait for their first payment can plunge they into debt , whether it be a DWP advance or other loan . will minister consider the proposal in " Poverty Trapped " for initial payment to be make at the same daily or weekly frequency as a jobseeker be previously pay , so they can focus on find a job rather than juggle their debt ? I can tell my hon . friend that there be no plan to change the assessment period and payment structure of universal credit , but I be very happy for he to sit down with official and discuss his paper . a constituent battle multiple sclerosis recently come to one of my surgery after his PIP application be refuse without ever receive a face - to - face assessment — and he do request one . the automated letter dismiss his appeal use incredibly insulting and derogatory language . without ever meet he , the Minister ' s Department declare my constituent fit and able despite this clearly not be the case . I be do whatever I can to support my constituent , but surely the Minister will agree that PIP applicant deserve face - to - face assessment rather than this dismissive , humiliating letter language . if people wish to have a face - to - face assessment , they ought to be able to have one — that be the position . there be claimant for whom a different form of assessment — a telephone assessment or a virtual assessment — be more appropriate and be perhaps what they want , but that choice should be available to people , and provider should be facilitate that . again , if the hon . Member would kindly share the detail of that case with I , I will look at it as a matter of urgency . I warmly welcome the considerable progress this Conservative Government have make in support pensioner . the triple lock and target support with the cost of living be welcome in my part of Devon . will my hon . friend outline how this Conservative Government will ensure that this great progress continue ? the triple lock be a conservative invention . it be a pledge in our manifesto and the Secretary of State will be look at it again this year when he make his decision on benefit . in 2016 the United Nations committee responsible for monitor the UN convention on the right of disabled people publish a damn report that find that the Government have systematically discriminate against disabled people , in breach of their right . last week the UN committee review evidence describe the further deterioration of disabled people ' s circumstance and right since 2016 , but the Government refuse to attend . isn ' t this just another kick in the face for disabled people ? I do not accept the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of the situation . we have follow all of the committee ' s procedure ; we be engage with this process in good faith and will present our progress at the session in March 2024 . [ interruption . ] it be rather frustrating that the hon . Lady often give the impression that this country be not a world leader on disability issue . the Equality Act 2010 , for example , be the cornerstone of ensure equality legislation , and we also have the British Sign Language Act 2022 and the Down Syndrome Act 2022 . we have also take other step forward , and we should be support that . I be fortunate to represent a part of the country that be bless with near - full employment . however , business in Bracknell and beyond struggle to recruit enough staff . can the Secretary of State reassure I that his Department will leave no stone unturned in get as many people as possible back into the workplace ? I welcome the good news but also accept the challenge . I have visit Bracknell to meet my hon . friend and be happy to sit down with he and the local jobcentre to ensure we be address his constituency ' s vacancy issue . last week I meet the citizen advice bureau in Cheshire west and Chester , which inform I that 75 % of those who appeal their PIP assessment win . why do the Minister not get it right in the first place , and what be he do , at pace , to address that ? I be very appreciative of citizen advice bureaux around the country for all the work they do in support constituent in each of our constituency . in the interest of time , I will just refer the hon . Gentleman back to the point I make early about the step we be take . the recent change to access to means - test benefit for those in receipt of vaccine damage payment be very welcome , and I thank the Minister for his engagement . will he join I in pay tribute to those who campaign for that change in the law , include my constituent Sheila Ward ? I pay full credit to Mrs Ward and also to my hon . friend . I read with interest the Stoke Sentinel report on this particular issue . there be a genuine change to be make , there have be a long - stand campaign , and all party should be pleased with the outcome reach . in all honesty , I probably ought to declare an interest , but pensioner live in Edinburgh and Glasgow do not face the same sort of increase as pensioner live in a remote and faraway constituency such as mine when it come to living cost such as run a car , buy grocery and heat the house . will the Government look at way of target these particularly hard - hit people ? we of course look at particularly target hard - hit pensioner through pension credit , and the Pensions Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , have do a huge amount to promote that . but we be always open to receive further idea and have discussion , and if the hon . Gentleman would like to come forward with further idea , we will certainly look at they . I have be contact many time each month by parent leave seriously out of pocket by their ex - spouse ' failure to pay child maintenance owe . what step be the Government take to ensure parent be able to receive their child maintenance on time so that many family be not leave subject to coercive control by their ex - spouse or leave out of pocket ? I thank the hon . Lady for make those point . child maintenance payment keep about 160 , 000 child out of poverty each year and be absolutely vital . they play a key role in ensure both parent play their part in support their child whether or not they live with they . if the hon . Lady have particular case or interest , I be happy to meet she . a constituent of mine have a small work pension , render her ineligible for pension credit yet still struggle to get by . another constituent who be 80 and miss out on pension credit by just £ 10 have contact I several time angry and hurt that he now have to pay for his tv licence . will Ministers review the rule on pension credit , because ineligibility for so many of the passporte benefit leave many of my constituent out of pocket ? they want to be eligible for it but be not . obviously this be without look at the individual case , but it be important to note that the threshold have go up significantly , so it be worth question whether the hon . Lady ' s constituent be now eligible . if not , application to the household support fund can be helpful , and local council may be able to offer housing benefit support . if there be an individual case that she would like to write to I about , I be happy to respond . that complete the question . those who wish to leave should do so . Police Service of Northern Ireland : Security and Data Protection Breach before I call the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) to ask the urgent question , I wish to make a short statement about the sub judice resolution . the matter of the data breach be not sub judice , but I have be advise that an individual have be charge with terrorism - relate offence follow the data breach . while I be content to waive the sub judice resolution in this and other proceeding to allow simple reference to the fact of the arrest , any further discussion of the circumstance of that case would not be in order . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland if he will make a statement on the breach of security and datum protection at the Police Service of Northern Ireland . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his urgent question . as you know , Mr Speaker , I be keen to do a statement on the Police Service of Northern Ireland ' s datum breach on 8 August , so I be pleased to have this opportunity . I be also happy to provide an update to the House on this matter . however , since write this answer , and as the right hon . Gentleman will know , news of the PSNI ' s Chief Constable ' s resignation have break over the past few minute . I thank Simon Byrne for his year of public service . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the appointment of a new Chief Constable be a matter for the Northern Ireland Policing Board , and I will continue to liaise with the senior management team of PSNI while the process of appoint a successor get under way . the psni continue to have my and the Government ' s full support in respond to the data breach , and we be focus on provide appropriate and proportionate datum and expertise . the breach , where the personal information of more than 10 , 000 officer and staff be accidentally publish in what appear to be a human error involve a number of spreadsheet field , happen on 8 August . not realise that the relevant document contain a hidden table , the initial and surname of every rank and grade , the location where an individual be base — but not their home address — and their duty type be publish online for approximately three hour . the data breach be deeply concern and significant . recent event in Northern Ireland , include the terrible attack on Detective Chief Inspector John Caldwell , show that there be still a small minority in Northern Ireland who wish to cause harm to psni officer and staff in Northern Ireland . I take this opportunity to thank all those individual who work to keep the people of Northern Ireland safe . they have my many thank , and we all owe they our gratitude . I recognise , too , that there be significant concern about the consequence of this data breach . many psni officer and staff have raise concern about themselves and their family , and they have my support and understanding as they go about their important work , keep community safe in these worrying and most testing of circumstance . to they , I again say thank you . in response to these concern , the psni and wide security partner be take appropriate action and be work around the clock to investigate the incident , provide reassurance and mitigate any risk to the safety and security of officer and staff . as of 30 August , 3 , 954 self - referral have be make to the PSNI ' s emergency threat management group . that be part of the welfare and support service that have be make available to PSNI officer . the House will understand that the psni be devolve and have operational independence . that have be the case since April 2010 with the creation of the Department of Justice . however , as the House would expect , the Government have remain in close contact with the psni since this breach and other datum breach come to light . my official and I have be receive regular update and the Government ' s focus have be on provide specialist support and expertise to the psni in its handling of this issue . official in the Cabinet Office have chair — [ interruption . ] I will finish in a second , Mr Speaker . official in the Cabinet Office have chair regular meeting , and I will update the House far , hopefully during this urgent question . thank you , Mr Speaker , for the opportunity to raise the plight of police officer and staff in Northern Ireland . the industrial - scale breach in datum last month be yet another self - inflict blow to the morale of the police service , as well as to confidence in police across Northern Ireland . for the rank and file , and for the staff work in our police station , for their personal detail to be release into the public domain and to find their way into the hand of dissident republican be unforgivable . the current terrorist threat level in Northern Ireland be " severe . " just a few month ago , Detective Chief Inspector John Caldwell be barbarically attack by gunman in front of his young son after coach an under - 15s football team near Omagh . now , each one of his colleague must come to term with the fact that they and their family have potentially be place in harm ' s way by the release of this datum . it go far than that . last week ' s rule by Mr Justice Scoffield find that the PSNI ' s senior command unlawfully discipline two of its own officer in order to appease Sinn F é in . these action be hugely damaging to community relation , to community confidence and to confidence in the rule of law in Northern Ireland . fair and even - handed policing be just as foundational to progress in Northern Ireland as be fully function political institution operate on a cross - community consensus basis . we therefore need to hear from the Government that they will ensure that the necessary resource be available to the police — notwithstanding budgetary constraint — so that police officer , their family and police staff be properly protect against terrorist attack . furthermore , the Democratic Unionist party welcome the decision by the chief constable to announce his resignation . we believe that be the right thing to do in all the circumstance . now we want to see confidence rebuild in our police service , and we will work with the psni — it have our full support — to achieve and deliver effective and efficient policing for everyone in Northern Ireland in a way that command cross - community support . I thank the right hon . Gentleman again for the urgent question and for the various question he have pose . official in the Cabinet Office have chair regular operational meeting — initially daily — bring together the psni , Government Departments and our world - class security service to ensure that all their collective skill , include cyber - expertise , have be bring to bear in support the psni on the breach . you will appreciate , Mr Speaker , that give your ruling on sub judice and for security reason , I can not comment on specific detail of the response , but six individual have be arrest by detective investigate the breach and the criminality connect to it . five have be release on bail to allow for further police inquiry and one have be charge with possess document or record likely to be useful to terrorist , and another item . the right hon . Gentleman mention money . the response to such a significant breach will obviously come with a cost . the UK Government be clear that security be paramount , and the focus remain on support and expertise at this point . with Northern Ireland ' s police be devolve , it be for the Department of Justice to set its budget and ensure it can fulfil its duty and responsibility , but it still remain a fundamental responsibility of the Executive — in their absence , Northern Ireland Departments — to run a balanced and sustainable budget . where additional funding be require , the correct process , which include a whole host of different thing , must be follow . however , I completely understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . this whole episode be agonising . I want to put on record my support and sympathy for all those brave man and woman of the psni who fear for their security and that of their family as a result . I urge the Secretary of State to do everything possible with the PSNI to ensure that document of this sensitivity be subject to sufficient protection so that a mistake of this sort can never ever be make again . I think that the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) refer to it in his question as a " self - inflict " wound , and it surely be . to be frank , check and balance should have be in place . I completely agree with my right hon . friend , and we will do what we can to assist the PSNI and the Department of Justice , as she would expect . we keep abreast of these matter , as I hope I detail in my answer , but this be a really significant breach . as one police officer put it to I , " when I join the police service , I use to think when I go to work that maybe people know what I do for a living , but now that have completely flip — I feel that they absolutely know what I do for a living . " that have change the psychology around the whole piece . I know that a lot more assurance need to be give for we to get to the place that my right hon . friend wish to get to . I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State . may I say that I look forward to work with the Secretary of State in the interest of peace , prosperity and progress in Northern Ireland ? the release of the name and workplace of thousand of psni officer and staff be doubtless inadvertent , but its consequence could not be more serious . that have now be recognise by the chief constable , Simon Byrne , who be resign — I join the Secretary of State in thank he for his service . those who serve in the PSNI confront great risk every day in their job to keep the public safe , and we thank they . but they already know that dissident republican be target they and their family , and now they know that those who would do they harm have this list . the damage to morale and confidence should not be underestimate . they be ask urgently , " what will be do to reassure and protect we ? " do the Secretary of State agree that the inquiry need to be complete as quickly as possible ? can he confirm that he will approve the appointment of the new chief constable in the absence of a Justice Minister in Northern Ireland ? do he intend to review the operation of the Northern Ireland Policing Board and how it function ? do he recognise that there will be additional cost in protect staff , as well as respond to potential civil claim ? there be already great pressure on the Northern Ireland policing budget , and the cut it now face will , in the word of the PSNI , leave the service " small … less visible , less accessible and less responsive " . finally , the whole House want to ensure that the staff get the support , protection and reassurance they need , but to succeed in do that we need leadership from the Government and the political party in Northern Ireland , to get the Assembly and the Executive up and run again as quickly as possible . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place and look forward to work with he . as I mention outside the Chamber , I will happily brief he on any aspect and will arrange technical briefing from my official so that he can be bring up to speed quickly . I would like to put on record my thank to the former shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , who be present , for the way he go about his business and for the very co - operative way we deal with business . I appreciate it and wish he well as we move forward . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the inquiry . yes , it need to be expedite . a timetable have be set up by the Policing Board , which be independent , and I believe that it report in three month ' time . it be quite a fundamental inquiry , and I hope in that time it will be able to bring all the answer require to the table . he ask about the appointment of a future chief constable ; if the institution of the Executive and the Minister for Justice be not present , we will have to pass secondary legislation in this place to allow that to happen . all that depend on the Policing Board go about its business and recruitment — I believe that be very much a rubber stamp of its work . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Policing Board and reform . I speak to a number of board member before the resignation of the chief constable , and they all know that the spotlight be on they and how they deal with this . I would like to wait and see how they discharge their duty over the course of the next few week before I commit to reform , because there be good people there who have the ability to do the job . finally , on the budget , which I mention in my answer , the right hon . Gentleman forget to mention that the Information Commissioner will come out with a decent fine for the data breach . we will have to take a whole host of thing into account . as and when they materialise , we will look at they . the Secretary of State mention the independence of the psni , and that funding issue lie with the Department of Justice and the Northern Ireland Executive , but may I press he on this issue ? will he use his considerable influence to ensure that the safety of all people be first and foremost , and not the cost ? it be important that the influence he have be exert to its full , because these be good people who find themselves in a very , very difficult position through no fault of their own . I like to feel that I have considerable influence in Government , but I be not sure that be completely correct . however , I will use the influence I have to do the right thing by all those who work for the PSNI . all sort of issue have come up over the past 25 year and since policing be devolve , but police in Northern Ireland certainly seem to look and feel well , and it be begin to get good outcome for those who be be police . I can only praise the officer and say that I will do everything in their support . I call the SNP spokesperson . I join the Secretary of State in offer my thank to Simon Byrne for his service . I believe his decision today , however , be the right one . this represent a shocking breach of confidentiality not just in relation to people ' s personal datum , but a shocking breach in the confidence that psni officer and staff can have in the organisation . I pay tribute to the dedicated PSNI officer and staff who daily protect and serve the people of Northern Ireland . the psni , as have be allude to , be already suffer a crisis of funding and therefore resource . the officer complement be low than it have be in the police service serve Northern Ireland than at any point since 1979 . the UK Government pay £ 30 million a year in additional funding to meet the security challenge , but that funding be inadequate even before the breach and be surely even more inadequate now . will the Secretary of State be a little clear on exactly how he will give funding guarantee to the PSNI go forward , because I do not believe this be something where the buck can be pass entirely to those who be currently charge with administer devolve budget ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he talk about the additional security funding that the Government put in . the UK Government ' s contribution to the financial year 2022 - 23 be £ 32 million in this space . the cost implication of the PSNI response be rightly be discuss with the Department of Justice . any additional ask for funding would come through an establish process . while it would not be right for I to pre - empt that , the Government be clear that security be paramount . our focus remain currently on the ask that have be make of we , which be to provide specialist support and expertise in response to the late assessment . psni officer face significant physical risk , but they also face significant reputational and relationship risk when they be reveal to be member of the psni . the Catholic Police Officers Guild and the Police Federation for Northern Ireland have do brilliant work over the past few week . will the Secretary of State confirm that he be engage with those organisation as the Government seek to support the impact of the breach ? I have not yet speak to the Catholic Police officer Guild personally , but my official have do so on a number of occasion and I be very happy to do so . initially , we be receive high - level briefing from the chief constable and his senior management team , and , as I mention , the Cabinet Office committee that be set up be receive and impart information at an officer level . we be at the beginning of the process , so there be still a very long way to go . the psni will have to reflect on today ' s news of the chief constable ' s resignation . there be a lot more for the Government and the Secretary of State to do in this space , and I fully recognise that . I think that Simon Byrne have make absolutely the right decision in resign today , give everything that have happen in recent week . however , there be a much deep and more significant problem than just one individual , and it be one about which we have be warn for year : the real crisis in the recruitment and retention of catholic PSNI officer and staff . do the Secretary of State agree that the good way of deal with that crisis be to bring back 50 : 50 recruitment ? during a conversation I have with the hon . gentleman last week , he talk about the Patten reform and 50 : 50 recruitment , and say it have be a backward step to depart from that point . I be a great believer in the original principle of police , in Peelism , whereby a police force reflect the community that it police . that be how it gain its confidence . I may be mistake , but I think I be brief recently that there have be good level of recruitment to the psni from catholic community , but situation such as the one we be discuss today damage the prospect of that continue , and it be our job — the job of all of we — to ensure that that do not happen . if anyone be in any doubt about the particularly difficult and sensitive role play by police officer in Northern Ireland , they should not be in any doubt now follow this appalling incident . have my right hon . friend be satisfied thus far that within the psni , suitable measure have already be take to ensure that freedom of information and subject access request be deal with by people of sufficient seniority , and that there be vet and double - checking of information before it be disclose into the public domain ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his wise question , and I can give he that assurance . the process behind the issuing of freedom of information answer have be very well check and will , I be sure , be check and check and check again — and , I believe , simplify , with much more senior eye make sure that information go out correctly . I be in Northern Ireland during the week after the breach , and the fact that officer continue to go out and go about their duty be a testament to they and their service . however , it be unacceptable that the job they do remain a secret from many people , and that we somehow think this be normal in Northern Ireland 25 year after the peace process ; it would not be normal in any other part of the United Kingdom , or in Ireland . what be the Secretary of State do with the co - guarantor of the peace process , the Irish Government , and those in the field more widely to deal with what be now clearly a crisis ? I personally agree entirely with the first part of what the hon . Lady have say . policing should be much more normalise in Northern Ireland , as , indeed , life should be . however , there be an interesting , rich and troubled history in Northern Ireland that have lead we to where we be now . what the Chief Constable do in introduce community policing mean that the hon . Lady will be able to walk around all sort of place and have the sense of a much more normal policing experience . I have have conversation with my irish counterpart , although this be very much an issue that rest with the UK Government , but everyone be interested in how freedom of information request be now deal with . I , too , thank Simon Byrne for his service , and join other in recognise that in the current circumstance he make the right decision in resign , give that his position be no long tenable . on the issue of the data breach , can the Secretary of State assure the House that money will be no obstacle in the short run when it come to the relocation of any officer ? there will be people , particularly those from a catholic nationalist background who be operate in intelligence and highly sensitive security role , who be particularly expose , alongside everyone else who be at risk . can the Secretary of State assure we that there will be no barrier to ensure their safety , which be paramount ? I must be careful about how I answer that question , because it relate very much to security matter , but I think I can say that the hon . Gentleman be correct in assume what he assume . I be hearten by the Secretary of State ' s commitment to money and support for his officer , although money can not put this right . minister come and go , as do government , so will he also commit himself to give regular and confidential update to , perhaps , the Intelligence and Security Committee or the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on the ongoing cost ? there be a danger that while there be a long - term risk for officer , short - term Government thinking can mean that support of this kind can wither on the vine . I will happily find out the appropriate way of reporting , as the hon . Lady suggest . as I have say , I think this be go to have a very long tail , so the ramification as it play out will ripple through the system for a very long time indeed . on behalf of my colleague , I welcome the new shadow Secretary of State to his place . I look forward to work with he . I also thank his predecessor for all his effort to engage with we . it be important to correct a number of inaccuracy in the Secretary of State ' s response . there be no hidden table but , as be common with Excel spreadsheet , there be more than one field . there be human error , but there be five level of security to assess what be go out , all of which fail . that speak to systemic failure within the PSNI . I welcome the resignation of the Chief Constable this afternoon and I think it be important that collectively — politically and in society — we all work together . I hope the Secretary of State will support we in this to instil confidence again in the Police Service of Northern Ireland . I do not know that the hon . Gentleman be such an expert in Excel . I be certainly not , so I be happy to be correct by he on the detail of that , but I think my statement be pretty thorough and I agree with what he say . as some member will know , my wife come from County Armagh . we get marry at the height of the trouble — the bombing and the shooting — and it send a chill down my spine when I read of this leak . first , the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) have refer to the difficulty of recruit to the Police Service of Northern Ireland , and this will only make it bad . secondly , it will not do much for our relationship with the police in the Republic of Ireland . the danger be that we just say that this be a matter for the psni and take a view from across the Irish sea , but Northern Ireland be a constituent part of the United Kingdom and I hope that a United Kingdom solution will be seek involve police force on this side of the Irish sea and , if necessary , the UK ' s intelligence service to find out what happen . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct . that be why I detail the meeting of official in the Cabinet Office , who have chair a large number of regular operational meeting bring together the psni , Government Departments and world - class cyber - security expert to ensure that all our collective skill across the Union be galvanise in this space . I welcome the resignation of the Chief Constable . it be a pity it take so long . I think he see that the writing be on the wall when he know a motion be go to the Policing Board call for his resignation , and so he should . he have lose the confidence of officer , not just because of this data breach but because he be prepared to throw two junior officer to the wolf in order to placate Sinn F é in , and it be right that he should go . the Secretary of State have be a bit confusing in his answer about money . he say that he recognise there will be considerable expenditure involve the Information Commissioner , mitigation measure , the relocation of officer and so on . on one hand , he say that this will have to come from the Justice Department budget , but on the other hand , he seem to indicate that the Government recognise that there will be additional expenditure for the police . give that the police be already 600 officer under strength , will he give a commitment that any additional cost as a result of this will not have to come from the exist overstretched budget ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I hope he will forgive I for push back slightly , but I think I have be particularly clear on this , and all of this could be solve much more easily if there be an Executive in place . I very much hope that that happen . the last few week have be hugely damaging to hard - win progress in our still fragile society . ordinary officer be feel vulnerable and demoralised , and we be think of they and also of the family of the victim of the Sean Graham murder , who have be thrust into a political row that they do not seek due to a heavy - handed response . in the interest of officer morale and impartial policing , it be important that we know , follow that Ormeau Road incident , who in the Northern Ireland Office speak to the Chief Constable and , when the issue come up of Sinn F é in withdraw from the Policing Board , what the NIO say to the Chief Constable . if the hon . Lady would kindly nod to indicate whether she mean in the last couple of week — [ interruption . ] I be afraid I will have to come back to she with that answer , if I may , because I do not have those detail . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . ever mindful that this be a practical , physical issue for my constituent , will the Secretary of State outline what additional support and help be to be make available to PSNI officer who be under threat and whose family feel unsafe in their home ? over my 38 year as an elect representative — as a councillor , an Assembly Member and a Member of Parliament — a number of ruc and psni officer have come to I in need of assistance after be threaten . that assistance be available fairly urgently . will the Secretary of State confirm that a budget be available to rehouse , as a priority , those 10 , 799 police officer and civilian staff who be under threat , take into consideration those who have move from one district to another for safety reason ? they feel open and vulnerable to attack , and an apology be simply not enough to allow they to lie safely in their bed at night . what be need be a practical , physical solution . that be what I be ask for . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for the way he put it . we be currently at a stage where officer and staff who have a concern be report it to their senior management , and a triage process have be in place . as of 30 August , 3 , 954 people have self - refer to the emergency threat management group within PSNI . if the hon . Gentleman will forgive I , I be very wary of mention security matter for those at high risk , so I will not do so . there be a continue process to make sure PSNI have both the budget and the process available to ensure that extra security measure can be take , and to ensure there be extra training and conversation to reassure people . it will be a little while before we see much upward pressure on budget , and I will then happily update the House . Countess of Chester Hospital Inquiry with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the inquiry into the circumstance surround the crime of Lucy Letby . on 18 August , as the whole House be aware , Letby be convict of the murder of seven baby and the attempt murder of six other . she commit these crime while work as a neonatal nurse at the Countess of Chester Hospital between June 2015 and June 2016 . as Mr Justice Goss say as he sentence she to 14 whole life order , this be a " cruel , calculated and cynical campaign of child murder " and a " gross breach of the trust all citizen place in those who work in the medical and caring profession . " I think the whole House will agree it be right that she spend the rest of her life behind bar . I can not begin to imagine the hurt and suffer that these family go through , and I know from my conversation with they last week that the trial bring these emotion back to the surface . concerningly , that be exacerbate by the fact the family discover new information about event concern their child during the course of the trial . lose a child be the great sorrow any parent can experience . I be sure the victim ' family have be in the thought and prayer of member across the House , as they have be in mine . we have a duty to get they the answer they deserve , to hold people to account and to make sure lesson be learn . that be why , on the day of conviction , I order an independent inquiry into event at the Countess of Chester Hospital , make it clear that the victim ' family would shape it . I arrange with police liaison officer to meet the family at the early possible opportunity to discuss with they the option for the form the inquiry should take , and it be clear that their wish be for a statutory inquiry with the power to compel witness to give evidence under oath . that be why I be confirm this to the House today . the inquiry will examine the case ' s wide circumstance , include the trust ' s response to clinician who raise the alarm and the conduct of the wide NHS and its regulator . I can confirm to the House that Lady Justice Thirlwall will lead the inquiry . she be one of the country ' s most senior judge . she currently sit in the Court of Appeal , and she have many year of experience as a senior judge and a senior barrister before that . before make this statement , I inform the victim ' family of her appointment , which be make follow conversation with the Lord Chief Justice , the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General . I have raise with Lady Justice Thirlwall the fact that the family should work with she to shape the term of reference . we hope to finalise those in the next couple of week , so that the inquiry can start the consultation as soon as possible . I have also discuss with Lady Justice Thirlwall the family ' desire for the inquiry to take place in phase , so that it provide answer to vital question as soon as possible . I will update the House when the term of reference be agree and will continue to engage with the family . today , I would also like to update the House on action that have already be take to improve patient safety and identify warning sign more quickly , as well as action that be already under way to strengthen that far . first , in 2018 , NHS England appoint Dr Aidan Fowler as the first national director of patient safety . he work with the NHS to publish its first patient safety strategy in 2019 , create several national programme . those include require NHS organisation to employ dedicated patient safety specialist , ensure that all staff receive robust patient safety training and use datum to quickly recognise risk to patient safety . last summer , to enhance patient safety far , I appoint Dr Henrietta Hughes , a practise gp , as England ' s first patient safety commissioner for medicine and medical device . Dr Hughes bring leader together to amplify patient ' concern throughout the health system . secondly , in 2019 , the NHS begin introduce medical examiner across England and Wales to independently scrutinise death not investigate by a coroner . those senior doctor also reach out to bereaved family and find out whether they have any concern . all acute trust have appoint medical examiner who now scrutinise hospital death and raise any concern they have with the appropriate authority . thirdly , in 2016 , the NHS introduce freedom to speak up guardian , to assist staff who want to speak up about their concern . More than 900 local guardian now cover every NHS trust . fourthly , in 2018 , Tom Kark KC be commission to make recommendation on the fit and proper person test for NHS board member . NHS England incorporate his review finding into the fit and proper person test framework publish last month . it introduce additional background check , the consistent collection of director ’ datum and a standardise reference system , thus prevent board member unfit to lead from move between organisation . finally , turn to maternity care , in 2018 NHS England launch the maternity safety support programme to ensure that underperform trust receive assistance before serious issue arise . also since 2018 , the Government have fund the national perinatal mortality review tool , which support trust and parent to understand why a baby have die and whether any lesson can be learn to save life in the future . furthermore , the Government introduce the maternity investigation programme , through the Health Safety Investigation Branch , which investigate maternity safety incident and provide report to trust and family . in 2020 , NHS England ' s get it right First Time programme be expand to cover neonatal service . it review England ' s neonatal service use detailed datum and give trust individual improvement plan , which they be work towards . indeed , Professor Tim Briggs , who lead that programme , have confirm that all neonatal unit have be review by his programme since 2021 . let I now turn to our forward - face work . we have already commit to move medical examiner to a statutory basis and will table secondary legislation on that shortly . it will ensure that death not review by a coroner be investigate in all medical setting , in particular extend coverage in primary care , and will enter into force in April . secondly , on the Kark review , at the time the NHS actively consider Kark ' s recommendation 5 on disbar senior manager and take the view that introduce the wide change he recommend in his review mitigate the need to accept that specific recommendation on disbarring . the point be consider far by the Messenger review . in the light of evidence from Chester and ongoing variation in performance across trust , I have ask NHS England to work with my Department to revisit this . it will do so alongside the action recommend by General Sir Gordon Messenger ' s review of leadership , on which the Government have already accept all seven recommendation from the report date June last year . this will ensure that the right standard , support and training be in place for the public to have confidence that nhs board have the skill and experience need to provide safe , quality care . thirdly , by January all trust will have adopt a strengthen freedom to speak up policy . the national model policy will bring consistency to freedom to speak up across organisation provide NHS service , support staff to feel more confident to speak up and raise any concern . I have ask NHS England to review the guidance that permit board member to be freedom to speak up guardian , to ensure that those role provide independent challenge to board . fourthly , the get it right First Time programme team will launch a centralised and regularly update dataset to monitor the safety and quality of national neonatal service . finally , we be explore introduce Martha ' s rule to the UK . Martha ' s rule would be similar to Queensland ' s system , call Ryan ' s rule . it be a three - step process that allow patient or their family to request a clinical review of their case from a doctor or nurse if their condition be deteriorate or not improve as expect . Ryan ' s rule have save life in Queensland , and I have ask my Department and the NHS to look into whether similar measure could improve patient safety here in the UK . Mr Speaker , I want to take the first opportunity on the return of the House to provide an update on the Essex statutory inquiry . in June , I tell the House that the inquiry into NHS mental health in - patient facility across Essex would move forward on a statutory footing . today , I can announce that Baroness Lampard , who lead the Department of Health ' s inquiry into the crime of Jimmy Savile , have agree to chair the statutory inquiry . I know that Baroness Kate Lampard will wish to engage with member of the House and the family impact , and follow their input I will update the House on the term of reference at the early opportunity . the crime of Lucy Letby be some of the very bad the United Kingdom have witness . I know that nothing can come close to right the wrong of the past , but I hope that Lady Justice Thirlwall ' s inquiry will go at least some way towards give the victim ' family the answer they deserve . my Department and I be commit to put in place robust safeguard to protect patient safety and to make sure that the lesson from this horrendous case be fully learn . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I strongly echo the sentiment of the Secretary of State and thank he for advance sight of his statement . I welcome the appointment of Lady Justice Thirlwall to lead the inquiry into the crime commit by Lucy Letby , and I strongly welcome his appointment today of Baroness Lampard to lead the statutory review in Essex . I look forward to receive further update from the Secretary of State as soon as possible . turn to the case of Lucy Letby , there be simply no word to describe the evil of the crime that she commit . they be impossible to fathom . although she have now be convict and sentence to a whole - life order , the truth be that no punishment could possibly fit the severity of the crime she commit . with Cheshire police ' s investigation have expand to cover her entire clinical career , we may not yet know the extent of her crime . what we do know be that her victim should be start a new school term today . our thought be with the family who have suffer the bad of trauma , whose pain and suffering we could not possibly imagine , and who will never forget the child cruelly take from they . we hope that the sentencing help to bring they some closure , even though the cowardly killer dare not face they in court . I wish to pay tribute to the hero of this story : the doctor who fight to sound the alarm in the face of hard - headed , stubborn refusal . this murderer should have be stop month before she be finally suspend . be it not for the persistent courage of the staff who finally force the hospital to call in Cheshire police , more baby would have be put at risk . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in recognise Dr Stephen Brearey and Dr Ravi Jayaram , whose bravery have almost certainly save life . blow the whistle on wrongdoing be never easy , which be why it should not be take lightly . indeed , we can judge the health of an institution by the way that it treat its whistleblower . the refusal to listen , to approach the unexplained death of infant with an open mind and to properly investigate the matter when the evidence appear to be so clear be simply unforgivable . the insult of order concerned medic to write letter of apology to this serial killer demonstrate the total lack of seriousness with which their allegation be treat . I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have change the term of the inquiry and put it on a statutory footing . there must be no hiding place for those responsible for such serious shortcoming . it be welcome that the inquiry will have the full force of the law behind it , as it seek to paint the full picture of what go wrong at the Countess of Chester Hospital , and it be right that the wish of the family affect have be listen to . I welcome the fact that they will be involve in the drawing up of the term of reference . I ask the Secretary of State , people right across Government and people who hope to be in government to make sure that , in future , in awful case such as this , family and victim be consult at the outset . can he assure the House that the family will continue to be involve in decision as the inquiry undertake its work ? Mr Speaker , no stone can be leave unturned in the search for the lesson that must be learn , but it be already clear that there be deep issue with the culture and leadership at the Countess of Chester Hospital . this be not the first time that whistleblower work in the NHS have be ignore , when listen to their warning could have save life . despite several review , there be no one who think that the system of accountability , of professional standard and of regulation of NHS manager and leader be good enough . why be senior leader at the Countess of Chester Hospital still employ in senior position in the NHS right up to the point that Lucy Letby be find guilty of murder ? the absence of serious regulation mean that a revolving door of individual with a record of poor performance or misconduct can continue to work in the health service . do the Secretary of State agree that that be simply unacceptable in a public service that take people ' s live into its hand ? the lack of consistent standard be also hamper effort to improve the quality of management . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that good management be absolutely vital for staff wellbee , clinical outcome , efficient service and , most of all , patient safety . the case for change have be make previously . Sir Robert Francis , who lead the inquiry into the death at Mid Staffs , argue in 2017 that NHS manager should be subject to professional regulation . in 2019 , the Kark review , commission by the Secretary of State , call for a regulator to maintain a register of NHS executive , with " the power to disbar manager for serious misconduct " . in 2022 , the Messenger review commission by the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) recommend a single set of core leadership and management standard for manager , with training and development provide to help they meet these standard . we must act to prevent further tragedy , so I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that his Department be reconsider Kark ' s recommendation 5 . labour be call for the disbarring of senior manager find guilty of serious misconduct , so I can guarantee he our support if he bring that proposal forward . the Secretary of State should go far . will he now begin the process of bring in a regulatory system for NHS management , alongside standard and quality training ? surely we owe it to the family and the staff who be let down by a leadership team at the Countess of Chester Hospital that be simply not fit for purpose . finally , I know that I speak for the whole House when I say that the parent of Child A , child c , child d , child e , child g , Child I , child o and Child p be constantly in our thought , as be the many other family who worry whether their child have also be victim of Lucy Letby . we owe it to they to do what we can to prevent anything like this from ever happen again . as the Government seek to do that , they will have our full support . I thank the hon . gentleman for the content of his response and the manner in which he deliver it . I think it underscore the unity of this House in our condemnation of these crime , and our focus on put the family at the centre of get answer to the question that arise from this case . I join he in pay tribute to those consultant who speak up to trigger the police investigation and to prevent further harm to baby . I note the further work that the police be do in this case , and also pay tribute to the police team , which I have the privilege of meeting . they have work incredibly hard in very difficult circumstance in the course of this investigation . as the hon . Gentleman say , the family be absolutely central to the approach that we be take . that be why I feel that it be very important to discuss with they the relative merit of different type of inquiry , but their response be very clear in term of their preference for a statutory inquiry . I have certainly surface to Lady Justice Thirlwall some of the comment from the family in term of the potential to phase it . of course , those will be issue for the judge to determine . on the hon . Gentleman ' s concern around the revolve door , clearly a number of measure have already be take , but I share his desire to ensure that there be accountability for decision . as member will know , I have be vocal about that in previous role , and it be central to many of the family ' question on wide regulation within the NHS . the hon . Gentleman mention the importance of good management . I be extremely interested in how , through this review and the step we can take ahead of it , we give further support to manager within the NHS and to non - exec director . the Government accept in full the seven recommendation of the Messenger review . the Kark review be largely accept . there be the issue of recommendation 5 , which be why it be right that we look again at that in the light of the further evidence . it be clear that a significant amount of work have already go in . a number of figure , include Aidan Fowler and Henrietta Hughes , have focus on safeguard patient safety , but in the wake of this case we need to look again at where we can go far , which the statutory inquiry will do with the full weight of the law . I be keen , however , that we also consider what far , quick measure can be take . indeed , I have be in regular contact with NHS England to take that work forward . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I place on record my sympathy to the family , who have conduct themselves with the utmost dignity throughout this process and who remain in my thought and prayer as well . I welcome the judge - lead statutory inquiry that my right hon . friend have announce . it be the right thing to do , as be the phase of the inquiry , which prevent stuff from take too long to move fast . as that work move forward , and the debate rightly continue to touch on how we regulate manager work in the NHS , and remove they , I ask that minister remain alert to any " we and they " think between manager and clinician . surely any successful hospital trust be one team work together , so that defensive medicine be all but impossible . I very much agree with the Chair of the Select Committee on the need for a one - team approach , and on look at how we encourage more clinician into management role . we need to be clear - eyed that often some of those in management position be already regulate , because they be in medical or nursing regulatory position , but it be important that we consider the right approach to ensure accountability for the family . that be why NHS England will look at this far . terrible crime have be commit in the Countess of Chester Hospital in my constituency — my hospital . I thank the Secretary of State for meet and listen to the family at the heart of this tragic case and for institute a statutory inquiry into the circumstance surround these crime . serious question about NHS accountability and governance have arise that the inquiry will need to address . give that the scope of cheshire police ' s Operation Hummingbird have now broaden , what reassurance can the Secretary of State offer my community about our hospital ? first of all , I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for the work she have do with the family and the staff in response to these terrible event . it be important that we reassure patient who be use the Countess of Chester Hospital now about the measure that have be put in place ; that be why I want to bring to the House ' s attention House the step that have already be take . however , it be also strike in my discussion with family member that they be at pain to point out that some of the other staff they have be treat by in the Countess of Chester Hospital have be exceptional in their care . there be specific issue that raise very serious concern , but the family be at pain to point out that there be other staff who have treat they extremely well . indeed , as the shadow Health Secretary say , there be staff also raise concern and ensure that the police investigate . with NHS England colleague , we be work closely with the Countess of Chester Hospital on next step , but it be important that the measure we have take provide reassurance about the quality of care that be available at Chester now . I commend the Secretary of State on his decision to upgrade the inquiry and put it on a statutory footing , something I know many of the family want . I be keen to understand what step he can take to give assurance that there be consistency in all hospital around the UK on the freedom to speak up guardian . what step be he take to ensure consistency right across the NHS estate ? my hon . friend raise an extremely important point . that be why in 2022 the guidance around the national freedom to speak up policy be strengthen — I mention the appointment in September 2022 of Henrietta Hughes as the Patient Safety Commissioner — and why significant work have be do on the quality of datum , look at the work for example of the get it right first time team , so that the datum can be analyse more effectively to alert investigation . look at the timeline , there be further lesson around , for example , who have visibility of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health report and when . clearly there be further lesson that we need to look at , but already the guidance , particularly on freedom to speak up , have be strengthen . back in 2018 both the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 and alongside it the child death overview panel , which review all child death , be also strengthen . as the Secretary of State will be aware , my constituency be serve by the Countess of Chester Hospital and many of my constituent work there and be be treat there . there be no doubt the impact this case have have on the whole community , as my hon . friend the Member for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) have mention . however , as a constituency MP , when I be brief by the management at the time the issue first emerge , I can say a very different picture be paint from the one we see today . it have be a huge concern that management involve at the time have go on to work in other part of the NHS , seemingly with approval from NHS England . I hope the Secretary of State will look into that and that the Kark review recommendation will finally be implement , because there be serious lesson to be learn from what go on with the senior management . the hon . Gentleman raise an extremely important point . it be right that we focus on that and ensure that the concern about the revolving door be address . on the decision take by my predecessor , my understanding be that the recommendation accept from Kark be view as effective in address that — obviously , the event to which this statement relate have happen since — but I have ask NHS England colleague in the Department to look again at test they far in the light of the evidence that have come through from the court case in particular . my heartfelt prayer and thought be rightly with the family , whose heartbreak and suffering be just unimaginable . I really welcome the tone that the Secretary of State have take on ensure that no stone be unturned in the quest for justice . likewise , I thank he for the support that he have give we in Essex through the Essex mental health trust statutory inquiry that he announce just before recess — we look forward to work with Baroness Lampard on the term of reference . can he some provide some assurance so that the 80 - plus family who do not engage with the inquiry previously come forward , give evidence and have confidence that their evidence will lead to justice for the love one they be miss because of what happen at the mental health trust ? I be keen to give my right hon . friend that assurance . I know that she have personally champion — as have a number of colleague across the House — the interest of family in Essex to ensure that they get the answer they need . indeed , she very effectively convey to I the concern about the inquiry in Essex hitherto . our focus — I think this be an area of consensus across the House — have to be on ensure that family get the answer that they legitimately deserve . the reason that it be proportionate to shift the Essex inquiry from a non - statutory footing to a statutory footing be the concern of the chair that there be insufficient engagement , particularly from staff but also , as my right hon . friend just say , from family who do not have confidence in the inquiry as it be . that be why that inquiry have be strengthen and we have put in a very senior chair with experience of the Savile inquiry . I know that my right hon . friend will be at the forefront in ensure that the family ' voice be hear move forward . I and my Cheshire West and Chester constituent be serve by the Countess of Chester Hospital , so I welcome the inquiry ' s have be put on a statutory footing , but like other hon . member across the House , and , in particular , the family of the victim of this horrendous situation , I want to ensure that those manager who have somehow recycle themselves into leadership position face strong regulation and accountability . I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s expand on that . it will not surprise the hon . Gentleman that a central concern of the family when I meet they be the extent to which they feel fobbed off when concern be raise and the ability of those manager either to continue in post or to move to new post . I think that concern be share across the House . it be very much central to some of the safeguard that have be put in place through the recommendation from Kark that have already be accept . it also open up question about the role of board and how we strengthen non - executive director , the training and induction , and the other provision that we can put in place . of course , some of those issue be the reason we be have the inquiry , and through the statutory process , there will be the opportunity to call people to give evidence and for the judge - lead inquiry to put question on behalf of the family . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the statement and for the announcement of the judge - lead inquiry . the shocking murder of those baby and the attempt murder of so many other have shock the nation . a major concern for I be that manager ignore consultant who have raise serious issue . it appear that there be in some hospital a culture of people not be listen to when they raise concern . Dr Stephen Brearey , one of the whistleblower in this case , say that he have be inundate with email from people who say that they have not be listen to when they have speak about really serious issue . I thank the Secretary of State for everything that he have say today , but do he support a strengthening of the whistleblowing legislation so that all whistleblower know that they will be hear and protect ? to provide some reassurance to my hon . friend , the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 be strengthen in 2018 . obviously , that be post the appalling event cover today , but that Act have already be strengthen . the freedom to speak up guardian have also be implement since these event , and their role have be strengthen far in the guidance . significant work have also be do on the role of the child death overview panel and the role of datum through the get it right first Time team , pick up datum where there be concern . a significant amount of work have be do on that , but of course through the inquiry , we also need to interrogate more clearly why the concern raise by clinician be not act on by those in leadership position . I be sure that be something that the judge will want to test in significant detail . I certainly welcome the Secretary of State ' s change of heart on the statutory inquiry : that be vital to get the answer that all the parent deserve . it be also vital that any other parent who have concern about the treatment of their child when Letby be work at Chester and Liverpool have those concern fully investigate or reinvestigate by the police , so will the Secretary of State ensure that the Home Secretary provide whatever resource the police need to make that happen ? give the gravity — the seriousness — of the case before the House , this issue be something that all minister be very seized of , but I will of course relay the right hon . Gentleman ' s point to the Home Secretary . from talk to the team , I know that specific funding have be allocate for that in response to the seriousness of these case , but of course , I will relay that point to my right hon . and learn Friend . it be impossible to imagine the depth of the grief of the family of the baby who be murder , and it be absolutely right that we try to help they to get the truth , to find out the fact and to make sure that it do not happen again , so I thank the Secretary of State for agree to the statutory inquiry and make sure that the parent be involve . in the Essex case , 2 , 000 people lose their life and family have wait many year for that truth , so I thank the Secretary of State for progress with the statutory inquiry and announce the new lead of that inquiry today . can he put that same energy into say that the family will be involve in the term of reference ; that those term of reference will be agree swiftly ; and that the inquiry will have the resource it need to get to the truth , too ? again , my right hon . friend raise an extremely important point . I be extremely keen that the family , as well as the Members of Parliament in Essex , be able to engage with the chair of the inquiry and to shape that inquiry . as part of the discussion in Chester with family about the relative merit of a statutory or a non - statutory inquiry , one concern be that a statutory inquiry sometimes take much long , which be why the point around phase be important . of course , the court case itself will have establish significant area of factual information that can be use by the inquiry . I hope my right hon . friend can see that the decision to put the Essex inquiry on to a statutory footing underscore our commitment to get family the answer they need . my prayer remain with the family who live each day with the consequence of this unspeakable evil . among the most chilling aspect of this tragic outrage be , as we have hear , the action of trust leader and manager , who ignore warning and belittle whistleblower . we have to ask ourselves how many life could have be save if people have be believe soon . I have to say that this feel horrifically similar to the failing in maternity service in my own local trust of Morecambe Bay during the 2000 , when we see several mother and baby needlessly lose their life . since then , despite the freedom to speak up measure that have be institute across the country , I still see whistleblower in other department in trust in the north - west marginalise , bully , unfairly treat and have their career trash , all because it would appear there be a culture of defend the reputation of institution rather than protect the safety of patient . what confidence will the Secretary of State give to potential future whistleblower that , when they speak out in order to save life , they will not then be single out ? again , colleague across the House know that protect whistleblower , include whistleblower in the NHS , be something I have long champion . as I say early , the guidance have be strengthen , but one of the good mitigant be have much more transparency on the datum , because the more transparent the datum be , the more difficult it be for concern to be ignore . there be a number of issue . we have strengthen the datum . we have the freedom to speak up guardian . we need to look at whether , in Chester , if a freedom to speak up guardian be on the board , that would be the right approach . do we need to look at whether these role should be on the board ? but significant work have already be do since these event and since Morecambe to strengthen the safeguard around speak up and the Public Interest Disclosure Act . alongside that , have organisation such as the get it right first Time team look at the neonatal datum be a far important safety process to have in place . it be difficult to imagine a more horrendous set of crime than the one commit by Letby , and her cowardly refusal to attend her sentence add grievous insult to the huge injury and misery she have cause to all the family . can we put on record our thank to the trial judge and the jury for the incredible work they do ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s commitment to a full statutory inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005 and commend Lady Justice Thirlwall . do he agree that it be important open justice be maintain fully so that we and the wide public can fully understand what on earth happen here , because this affect not just those family on the indictment — or the victim on the indictment — but hundred of family across the entire region , and open justice have to be at the heart of judicial process ? first , I join my right hon . and learn Friend in pay tribute to the trial judge and the jury ; it must have be a very harrowing case for they to sit on and deal with . he make , as ever , an important point about open justice . I just have one caveat ; I hope he will forgive I . it be that it be also important we get the balance right in respect the privacy of family where that be their wish , particularly give that quite often these family will have other young child who may or may not know about aspect of this case . so it be important that we have open justice , but at the heart of our approach be ensure that we be follow the wish of the family , and that include respect privacy where that be appropriate . it be all too tragic , and my prayer be also with the family who have suffer so much over this time . it be 10 year since Sir Robert Francis ' s report be publish , and of course he put forward the duty of candour , yet the duty of candour of seven consultant be ignore and overridden . as a result of that , will the Secretary of State ensure there be an independent external route through which concern can be raise ? far to that , will he look at the accountability , scrutiny and supervision of clinician throughout the health service , because the pressure on the service at the moment mean that those vital double check be often miss ? again , I agree . it be extremely important that we have the right level of escalation and the right route available to those raise concern . I have already signal to the House a number of safeguard that have already be put in place follow various review , include the Francis review . indeed , I speak to Sir Robert about the lesson from his report , as I have with a number of other chair in recent week . it be important and a number of safeguard be already in place , but of course the inquiry will look at how those fit together and whether any further step be require . I welcome the dashboard the Secretary of State have announce , which will identify outlier so that trust that have abnormal event can be look at , but in this particular case the fact that event be happen unexpectedly be identify , staff analysis be do and seven consultant raise that this be a problem . they identify Lucy Letby as potentially cause this harm and they be repeatedly , repeatedly and repeatedly ignore . we also need to bear it in mind that , if they have not be ignore , some of these baby might not have die , and that be not good enough . as the Secretary of State seek answer to how this can be prevent , I urge he to focus on three thing : how he can develop clear line of medical , nursing and managerial accountability ; how he can prevent poor manager from move from trust to trust to evade such accountability ; and how , if seven consultant find themselves in a similar position in future , they can escalate beyond their trust — outside their trust — to get some attention . a number of step have already be take ; I be think , for example , of the role of medical examiner work in conjunction with the role of the coroner . those be the sort of area that the inquiry will look at : the role of the coroner , the medical director , the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health report in 2016 , who have sight of that and what action be take , and the role of the board , include the non - exec lead , in term of issue around patient safety . so a range of area will be look at , which be the whole purpose of have this inquiry . a number of step have already be put in place , but it be important that we learn the lesson where clinician have raise concern and those concern be not act on . I co - sign a letter to the Health Secretary from Salford MPs and the Salford City Mayor detail that two senior manager from the Countess of Chester Hospital who be accuse , as we have be discuss , of repeatedly ignore warning about Ms Letby ' s action then leave that hospital and be employ or second to NHS trust in Greater Manchester , include Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust and the Northern Care Alliance . the two manager be re - employ well after the police have launch their investigation into Lucy Letby . this raise serious question about nhs governance , hr process , safety , risk assessment and the role of regulator , as already raise by the Labour Front Bench and my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) . I want to join our concern from Salford with the concern the Health Secretary say be already be express about the governance issue raise by the re - employment of manager at that time and ask for assurance that this will be fully explore in Justice Thirlwall ' s inquiry . the hon . Lady raise extremely important issue and I be happy to give she the assurance that these issue will be explore . NHS England be look at that . on the concern express around the regulation of manager , the chief exec of NHS England host a meeting last week with key stakeholder to discuss these very issue and I will of course relay to the chief exec the point she have raise . a few year ago , I be a whistleblow myself against an orthopaedic surgeon in my local hospital who be put the same metal implant into patient ' back whether they need it or not . no other hospital be do it ; the specialist hospital only ever take it out . from that work , I be a parliamentary advocate with my constituent Tim Briggs for get it right first Time . we push that for eight year before the NHS take it up , so I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State talk about it . what I discover then be that the desire of trust management to cover thing up to protect the reputation of their institution seem to trump do the right thing and throw the spotlight of transparency on what be happen . what be the key reform the Secretary of State speak about today that will mean that will not happen in future and those brave clinician who speak up will be listen to in future case like this ? the key reform include get it right First Time , the work of Professor Tim Briggs — I raise with he the issue around Chester and the fact that his team have be review that datum — the strengthening of the freedom to speak up guardian , the appointment of a new patient safety commissioner , the strengthening of the Public Interest Disclosure Act , the role of child death overview panel and the scrutiny they provide , and the expand role of medical examiner , which be not in place . so significant action have be take , but it be right that through the inquiry we look at the specific issue raise at Chester and any further step that be appropriate . when I see the list of hospital that the former chief executive of Chester hospital go on to after the Lucy Letby case , I could tell — I speak as a former Health Minister — that it have an eerily familiar ring about it , because fail manager from previous scandal go on to at least some of the same hospital . why be the Secretary of State wait for another review or for the inquiry before finally close this revolve door and introduce independent regulation for hospital manager similar to that to which medical staff be subject ? just to reassure the right hon . Gentleman , it be not that we be wait . have discuss it with NHS England , not least in last week ' s meeting look at the Kark recommendation that be accept and why recommendation 5 be not accept , the view at the time be that the accept recommendation be sufficient in address the concern about the revolve door . it be right that we test that , but it be also right that we get the balance right . the right hon . Gentleman mention concern that certain trust may be see as more difficult to manage . we do not want to create an environment where people be unwilling to go to those more difficult trust because they fear the risk that they carry . it be important that we get the right support for manager , particularly around some of the more difficult trust to manage , alongside have the accountability . get that detail right require we to work closely with NHS England and the wide NHS family . [ interruption . ] order . there be a lot of noise in the Chamber . People who have come in for the next piece of business be forget just how very serious and sombre this piece of business be . have some thought for other . the Secretary of State have rightly speak of the enormous pain and suffering of the parent in this horrific case . he will appreciate , however , that during the course of the Lucy Letby trial , they have have to relive all that pain and suffering . as the statutory inquiry progress , that pain will be continue for week and month ahead . will the Secretary of State give an assurance to the House that in the period ahead — during the course of the inquiry and beyond — these parent will receive all the support they need to get through this ordeal ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the way that the trial re - trigger a lot of pain and suffering for the family . what I find particularly powerful when talk to they be the fact that they discover new information during the course of the trial , include harm to their child that they have not be tell about hitherto . that be particularly concern , and clearly serious lesson need to be learn from that . in term of the support , one of the reason for want to engage with they at the early opportunity be to ensure we be do all we can to support they , and that be central to how I understand the judge will look to structure the inquiry to ensure that the wish of the family be central to the approach that be take . letby ' s crime freeze the heart , and I commend the Secretary of State for the inquiry be statutory . although health be devolve , baby from across north Wales be regularly send to hospital in north - west England , include the Countess of Chester for specialist care and treatment . what assurance can the Secretary of State give to Welsh family that the statutory inquiry ' s term of reference will include cross - border patient safety and the safety of baby in hospital possibly hour away from their family in Wales ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for raise that extremely important point , because the case of five of the baby concern in the trial be cross - jurisdictional . it be important that we take on board those lesson and look at how those case that apply to a baby or family from Wales be capture , and I know that be something that Judge Thirlwall will give consideration to , shape by her discussion with the family . have a child in neonatal intensive care be absolutely terrifying . a parent in that situation be completely reliant on the professionalism and compassion of the NHS staff , and that be what make the crime of Letby so evil and unfathomable . none of we can imagine what the family be go through right now and what they will have to relive during the course of this statutory inquiry . can the Secretary of State give an assurance to the House that the anonymity of the family will be protect in the course of this inquiry , if they want it to be , so that they can have the privacy they need during this very difficult time ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend ' s sentiment in put family and their wish central . I hope he will understand that as part of an independent inquiry , it will be for the judge to decide which hearing be hold in public and which be in private . in essence , part of the initial discussion on a non - statutory inquiry and my discussion with the family be about balance privacy concern versus the more adversarial and public nature of a statutory enquiry . I know that Justice Thirlwall will be sensitive to the family ' wish and what be the appropriate balance between hearing hold in public and those hold in private . after all that have happen , it be surely a mistake not to implement recommendation 5 of the Kark review . why do the Secretary of State not just get on with it and bring it in to disbar senior manager in the NHS ? the Kark recommendation that be accept , which cover event since those cover at Chester , be believe to have address the concern about the revolve door , but give the issue that have come to light through the case in Chester , I have ask NHSE colleague to revisit that decision without wait for the inquiry to look at that . of course , the inquiry will also look at what be the right balance of regulation for manager . I wholeheartedly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that there will be a full , judge - lead statutory inquiry into these horrifying , despicable crime . it defy belief that senior nhs manager and leader could have ignore the concern of senior clinician in the NHS for so long . I look forward to reassurance that this statutory inquiry will not hold back in hold those senior manager to account , to ensure that this do not happen in any hospital ever again . I also welcome today ' s update that the Essex NHS mental health inquiry have also move to a statutory footing and that Baroness Lampard will chair that inquiry . parent will be reassure to know that she be in the House listen to member ' concern . I hope that my hon . friend will note that the appointment of a Court of Appeal judge underscore the seriousness of the inquiry into the murder by Letby . the decision before the summer to place the Essex inquiry on a statutory footing again underscore our commitment to give answer to those family in Essex , particularly where there be concern that staff have hitherto not engage with the inquiry in the way they need to do . my thought and prayer , and those of my party , be with everyone affect by the unspeakably evil crime of Lucy Letby . in this instance , we have have a serial killer in play , and that make it unique , but it be clear that there have be management failing — a failure to listen to senior clinician , and potentially even a cover - up — and that unfortunately be not a new situation for the NHS . as the MP for North Shropshire , I have see management failing at the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS Trust , and my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) have highlight the failing at Morecambe Bay . we have have numerous inquiry into management failure in the NHS , we have say " never again " so many time , and we be still here . how can the Secretary of State reassure parent and people be treat in the NHS that this time , when we say " never again " , we will mean it ? again , I very much agree on the imperative of learn from the various review that have take place . that be why I have personally speak to the chair of those review over recent day and week . I point out that these event take place before a number of the review ' recommendation be make and give to the Government , and those recommendation — whether on the medical examiner role , strengthen under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 , the use of " get it right first time " to review the datum , the freedom to speak up guardian or the new patient safety commissioner role — have be implement . so significant action have be take follow those review , and those action have be take since these event . however , through the inquiry we will of course test whether further action be need . as my hon . friend the Members for City of Chester ( Samantha Dixon ) and for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) explain , for those of we whose constituent use and work at the Countess , this have be the most dreadful time . but only those who have lose a child could even begin to understand the pain that the family have experience . it be right that there be unanimity in this House about what be do . could I come back to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) about duty of candour ? ten and a half year ago , I stand here in this House and listen to the now Chancellor talk about duty of candour . I be at a loss to understand how it could be that family be not entitle to every bit of information when they ask for it . what review have the Secretary of State already conduct into the effectiveness of duty of candour ? what be his conclusion about what have go wrong over the past 10 year ? as I have say , significant action have be take over those 10 year to strengthen transparency , action take on datum and the ability of freedom to speak up guardian to ensure that more safeguard be in place . part of the purpose of the inquiry be to test whether further action be need . I have already ask NHS England to look again at area where recommendation have be make and what further action we can take . first of all , I thank the Secretary of State very much for the tone and the compassion of all his answer . he have encompass all our thought and emotion in a very positive way , and I thank he for that . can he confirm that any procedural change that come from lesson learn from this dreadful case will be share throughout the trust area ? it be a horror that have shake every parent , pregnant mother and midwife in every corner of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . they want to know how they can protect the most vulnerable in our society . how can Government ensure that finance do not preclude precaution be take to protect baby and also staff on the ward ? will the inquiry ' s finding be share with all devolve administration ? I be happy to commit that the inquiry finding will be share with the Administrations across Great Britain and Northern Ireland . it be important that the lesson be learn . it be also important that we look at where staff move — that include not just within England but in Northern Ireland — and at where patient from one jurisdiction may be treat in another for a period of time . those issue apply across the United Kingdom . we should have a UK - wide approach , include to datum and look at variation across the United Kingdom . I know that the hon . Gentleman will take a keen interest in that . reinforce Autoclaved Aerated Concrete in Education Settings with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the step that my Department be take to support education setting to respond to the risk of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , commonly know as RAAC . before I go into specific , I want to be clear that absolutely nothing be more important than the safety of child and staff . it have always be the case that where we be make aware of a building that pose an immediate risk , we have take immediate action . parent and child have be look forward to start the new term , and I understand that the timing of this change in guidance to school and college will have cause concern and disruption . however , face with recent case , include one that emerge right at the end of the school holiday , I believe 100 % that this be the right thing to do . that be why we have take such rapid step to support our school and college . there be over 22 , 000 school and college in England , and the vast majority be unaffected by RAAC . local authority and multi - academy trust be responsible for those building , but we have be support school and college to ensure that risk result from RAAC be mitigate . to date , 52 school and college have those mitigation in place . the majority of those setting will remain open for face - to - face learn on their exist site , because only a small part of each site be affect . a minority of pupil will be fully or partially relocate to alternative accommodation to continue face - to - face learning while mitigation be put in place . I want to reassure parent and child that we be take a deliberately cautious approach to prioritise child ' s safety . because of our proactive questionnaire and survey programme , we have a well understanding of where RAAC be on the school estate than in most other country . all school and college that have advise we they suspect they might have RAAC will be survey within a matter of week — in many case in a few day . most suspect case will not have RAAC . so far when we have survey school , around two third of suspect case do not have RAAC . we will follow the same approach with any new case through the professional surveying programme . the vast majority of school will be unaffected and child should attend school as normal unless parent be contact by their school . as my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools explain on Friday , we will publish a list of school once mitigation be in place . it be right that parent be inform by school if they be impact , and that school have time to work with their Department for Education caseworker on those mitigation . I be confirm today that we will publish the list of the 156 school with confirm case of RAAC this week , with detail of initial mitigation in place . after that , we will provide update information as new case of RAAC be confirm and exist case resolve . this will include update on the impact on pupil , such as how many be learn face - to - face and how many be receive short period of remote education . once again , we be do everything in our power to minimise disruption and avoid remote learning . I must thank the professional response of leader , teacher and support staff in the sector , who have act swiftly to deliver contingency plan . each impact school and college have a dedicated caseworker to help implement a mitigation plan . this could include other space on the school site or in nearby school , or elsewhere in the local area , until structural support or temporary building be instal . we have increase the supply of temporary building , work with three contractor , and accelerate the installation of these . we have the support of our lead utility company to ensure that those classroom can be open . in the small number of school with confirm RAAC , disruption to face - to - face learning have usually last a matter of day . with regard to funding , as the Chancellor say , we will spend whatever it take to keep child safe . that include pay for the emergency mitigation work need to make building safe , include alternative classroom space where necessary . where school need additional help with revenue cost , such as transport to other location , we be actively engage with every school affect in order to put appropriate support in place . we will also fund the long - term refurbishment or rebuilding project , where these be need , to rectify RAAC . professional advice from technical expert on RAAC have evolve over time . indeed , the question of how to manage its risk across all sector have span successive government since 1994 . my Department alert the sector about the potential risk of RAAC in 2018 , follow a sudden roof collapse at a primary school . we publish a warning note with the Local Government Association , which ask all responsible body to " identify any property construct use RAAC " and to " ensure that RAAC property be regularly inspect by a structural engineer " . in February 2021 we issue a guide on how to identify RAAC . concerned that not all responsible body be act quickly enough , in 2022 we decide to take a more direct approach . we issue a questionnaire to responsible body for all 22 , 000 school to ask they to identify whether or not they have , or suspect to might have , RAAC . responsible body have submit response to the questionnaire for 95 % of school with block build in the target period . in September 2022 we start a programme where the DFE send a professional surveyor to assess whether RAAC be present . if RAAC be present , the previous DFE guidance be to grade it as critical or non - critical , and only take building out of use for critical RAAC case . such be the level of our concern , however , that I ask official to seek evidence of risk , include to non - critical RAAC . it be because of this proactive approach that we discover detail of three new case over the summer , where RAAC that would have be grade as non - critical have fail without warn . the first be in a commercial setting . the second be in a school in a different educational jurisdiction . in that instance , the plank that fail remain suspend , rest on a steel beam . as the plank be fully intact , DFE engineer be able to investigate the situation . in their professional judgment , the panel affect would have be previously rate as non - critical , but it have fail . ministerial colleague and I be already extremely concerned , but then a third failure of RAAC panel occur , at a school in England in late August . this be a panel that have previously be grade as non - critical . because child ' s safety be our absolute priority , it be right to make the difficult decision to change our guidance for education setting , so that area previously deem to contain non - critical RAAC be now be close . I want to set out why we be take this more cautious approach with the education estate in England . professional guidance be clear that wherever RAAC be find , it need to be monitor closely . the school estate be very disparate , consist of 22 , 000 setting with more than 64 , 000 individual block . monitor RAAC closely be therefore very difficult on the estate , and many responsible body do not have dedicate estate professional on all school or college site at all time . that be why the approach we be take be the right one for our school and college . my official have work closely with expert in this field . Chris Goodier , professor of construction engineering and material at Loughborough University , have say : " DfE have be employ some of the good engineer on this and have consult we and the Institution of Structural Engineers " . the Government ' s priority be for every child in the UK to go to school safely . my official have be engage urgently with the devolved administration to discuss our finding and offer support in order to understand the situation in relation to RAAC on school estate in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . last week I write to offer my support , include further official or ministerial - level engagement , and to facilitate discussion between our technical expert . I be aware that this policy change occur during the recess , and that I be therefore unable to notify the House in advance . for that I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I hope you understand why I feel that I have to take the decision when I do . we be take an extremely cautious approach to the issue , but I believe that this be the right thing to do when it come to the safety of child . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I will turn in a moment to the sorry story of how we get here , but let I first ask the House to reflect on two thing . first , the safety of child and staff in school today should be our high priority , and while the voice of child be rarely hear in this place , it be their welfare , their hope and their fear that should be uppermost in our mind today . secondly , the mark and measure of each of we as politician be our willingness to take and to accept responsibility : collective responsibility , not just for our own action but for those of the government in which we serve — and this week , as the school year begin , there be an awful lot of responsibility for Ministers to take . what an utter shamble this be . the defining image of 13 year of Conservative Government be one of child cower under steel prop , there to stop the ceiling fall in on their head . thirteen year into a Conservative Government , the public realm be literally crumble around the next generation . the Education Secretary say this morning that in her view it be not the job of her Department to ensure the safety of our child ' s school , and that she be do a good job . school be literally at risk of collapse . she be the Education Secretary , so whose responsibility do she think it be ? this be the tragic endgame of the stick - plaster politic of the last 13 year . child have be fail by this Conservative Government . it be RAAC that be our focus today , but the issue be wide and deep across our school and across our country . it be deep because school building be only part of the wide failure in our education system , over which minister have be preside for 13 long year . it be wide because thousand upon thousand of school and other public building be build in the last century , and be not intend to last for more than a couple of decade . this be system build — quick , cheap , too often involve asbestos , and not expect still to be there in 30 year ' time . that be why the previous Labour Government take responsibility and begin rebuild they , the length and breadth of our country . that be why we launch the Building Schools for the Future programme , to give our child the start they deserve . that be because then — as now and as always — labour put child first . the Schools Minister today be the same Schools Minister who scrap labour ' s plan as one of his very first act back in 2010 . in 2010 the Conservatives scale back plan to just 150 school rebuilding project each year , slow the pace of renewal . in 2021 , when their then Chancellor — now the Prime Minister — deliver a spending review , he cut the pace again to just 50 a year , and today the previous permanent secretary at the Department for Education tell of the Department ' s bid to double the school rebuild programme in 2021 be knock back by the then Chancellor , who instead of double it , almost halve it . I speak early of responsibility . the Secretary of State be clear just a few hour ago that she refuse to accept any responsibility , so who on the Government Benches today will take responsibility for decision after decision to slash spending on school safety ? I thank the Secretary of State for have address some of the question that family across this country will have , but I be afraid that there be many , many more . time be short , so I will ask many of they in writing , but I hope that she will be able to answer these question now , and to answer all my question in full . why be the Secretary of State still refuse to publish the list of affected school , promptly and in full , today ? why do the condition datum collection survey between 2017 and 2019 not look in more detail at these issue ? what strategy do the Department have right now for the wide condition of system build school and other educational premise that be long past their design lifespan ? how many other educational setting be currently believe , or suspect , by the Department to contain RAAC where that be yet to be confirm ? do emergency service have the information they need , should something go wrong ? what be the estimate timeline for complete the necessary repair in affected school ? how long will student face disruption during this process ? which capital budget be be raid and which priority be be downgrade today to fund the work that be happen now ? what assessment have be make of the risk of a RAAC failure in the context where asbestos be also present ? there be many more question I could ask , but the most important be this : who in this Government in the month ahead will take some responsibility for sort out the chaos that our child face ? I thank the hon . Lady , and of course that be I , but what matter be what you do . when I be give new information and have to consider the impact that this would have on our school and child , I take action even though it be politically difficult . yesterday , when the hon . Lady be ask about Wales and RAAC , she wave away concern and say that there be no problem . why ? because it involve a Labour Government with Labour policy . today , two school close in Wales just as they start their surveying programme . we start our survey programme in March 2022 . one of these involve take decision and be honest with the public ; one be try to score political point . I answer her question : the information will be provide this week — [ interruption . ] order . that be enough . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think I answer the hon . Lady ' s question . the information will be publish this week . everything will be fully fund : the mitigation , any revenue that be require on a case - by - case basis , and also the rebuilding of the school . when it come to do a good job , I make no apology for praise the work of the Department for Education . not my work , no , but the work of colleague , of school and of professional who have help to ensure that we be not send child back to school without the guarantee that they will be safe . I have have team work for week and all weekend to get portacabin , to find alternative site and to help put in place urgent mitigation . those people be do a brilliant job and I want to thank each and every one of they . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to put the safety of child first and to take a cautious approach , but I know from speak to headteacher in my constituency that her Department have be speak to school about RAAC and how to mitigate it not just for week or month , but for year . one of my school , in Cranbourne in Basingstoke , already have in place a plan with her Department for how to resolve that problem , but the new technical guidance have throw up two suspect case of RAAC in my constituency . could she outline for parent how quickly those suspicion will be either confirm or negate , so that those school can continue to function fully in the future ? I thank my right hon . friend , her local authority and her responsible body for respond to the questionnaire . ninety - five per cent . have do so , which be why I be really worried about the 5 % that have not . we will survey those with suspect case in the next few week — we will probably get to they in the next two week . about two third of those survey turn out not to have RAAC , but we want to know exactly where it be . we want to make sure we completely mitigate all those case . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . obviously , the safety of child be paramount and urgent action have to be take to resolve this situation . the Chancellor say yesterday that the Government will " spend what it take " to sort out this problem , yet Treasury source have admit that there will be no new money to pay for the remedial work , with the cash instead come out of the Department for Education ' s exist capital budget . can the Secretary of State give we some clarity on that ? give that exist budget be already extremely stretch , what discussion be she have with Treasury colleague to access additional funding ? the Secretary of State mention the devolved administration , and clearly this affect building across the UK . the Scottish Government ' s budget have already be cut , so can she confirm that there will be additional funding for the devolved Administrations to carry out the remedial work that will have to take place in those jurisdiction ? the Sunday Mirror have report that up to 7 , 000 school could be at risk but have yet to be assess , and a National Audit Office report in June find that 38 % of english school building have pass their recommend RAAC lifespan . this mean that around 700 , 000 child in England be be teach in school that require major rebuilding . the Secretary of State mention the questionnaire that have be send out to 22 , 000 school . can she give some clarity about the responder ? what expertise do they have to make the assessment to which she refer ? give the figure I have just quote , it would be good to know the number of school affect , as a number in the hundred seem unrealistic . can we have a more realistic figure for the number of school that be likely to need work to be do ? finally , can the Secretary of State guarantee that child in school that have not be close be absolutely safe to return to lesson ? I do not know whether we can believe everything we read in the press , but I have read that Scotland do not plan to close school with RAAC , which be a bit worrying . we will continue to share technical information with our counterpart , and we have offer meeting . when we receive new information and new evidence , we sometimes need to take a new approach . that be the decision I take very recently , and I think it be the right decision . I would be very happy to work with the hon . Lady and her colleague to share more information . every year we have a capital budget , and we be invest significantly in our school . the overall capital budget in the 2021 spending review be £ 19 billion , of which £ 7 billion be allocate for 2023 - 24 . when we come to the next phase , we have allocation to rebuild some of our school , but we will look in detail at what more will be require . the Secretary of State will know that St Andrew ' s Junior School in Hatfield Peverel be now closed , and other school in my constituency , include two large secondary school , be experience partial closure . they have mitigation in place , and there be a lot of work under way . I hope she will join I in thank Essex County Council , in particular , for the extraordinary leadership it have show in work with school . I also put on record my thank to the noble Baroness Barran , who have be support Essex mp and family . I have some specific question . promise have be make on capital cost , but will there be support for revenue impact such as travel , switch to remote learning and , in particular , child with special educational need ? our county have a very high level of pupil with special educational need and disability , and we need to understand that . if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , let I ask about caseworker , who have be mention . we need to know whether or not they be go to engage with mps ; my experience to date have be that they be not prepared to speak to mps about what be go on in school . finally , what be ofste ' s role in this ? if it be go to be look at school , will it account for disruption cause by this issue and for the impact it will have on school exam , particularly for child who be be examine this year ? I thank my right hon . friend for that , and I very much join she in praise Essex County Council . there be a lot of case in Essex — there be a concentration there — and it have do an amazing job . it have answer all the questionnaire in great detail and it be very much grip the issue , and we be work very closely together . on revenue , we have say that on a case - by - case basis , if the school will come to the Department and tell we what revenue impact there be , we will make sure that it have the support it need . caseworker be currently focus on work with the school ; it be very early in this process . we be mitigate a lot of the work , but not everybody be as far ahead as some of the school to which my right hon . Friend refer . we have open a hotline — a helpline — for Members of Parliament . we extend the hour so that it be open at the weekend . I know that some people get their " dear colleague " communication and do not notice it until the helpline have close , so we have that open at the weekend — it will be open all through the week as well . they will be get the same information from the caseworker system , and that be how it will work . when the Prime Minister , as Chancellor , slash the school repair budget , despite be warn of the danger to child , how big a factor in that decision be the fact that neither he nor most of the Conservative Cabinet actually use state school for their own child ? it be simply not correct to say that the size of the school rebuilding programme have be cut in recent year ; it be currently at the same scale as be announce in 2020 , which be roughly in line with the scale of rebuilding project be deliver per year since the start of the previous programme . [ interruption . ] so , if member want to listen , it be the same scale of rebuilding project be deliver per year as since the start of the previous programme . the priority school building programme will continue and we will continue to fund the school . rise — I call Sir Julian Lewis . thank you for call a state - educate Conservative Member , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I , through the Secretary of State , thank Baroness Barran , who reach out immediately to I , together with a highly competent senior official , when this problem arise in one of my local school this March ? not only do they do that , but they seize the opportunity to encourage a resending of the questionnaire to the network of school , through the contact that I have with one of my local headteacher . I have rarely , in 26 year in this House , see a Department so proactive on an issue as this Department have be on this one , and I thank it for that . I thank my right hon . friend , from one state - educate person to another . it be true that we have take action quickly , but Baroness Barran , in particular , have be work on this since way before I be in the Department and have do an amazing job . I thank he for recognise that . she have really push we to make sure that we get additional information , get the evidence and have all the survey back , so that we know , unlike most other place , where RAAC be in our school . when I be task with the new evidence , I could identify exactly which school be impact immediately because of all the work that she have do . as we have hear already that the capital budget for this year be go to be raid to pay for the Government ' s failure and incompetence over the past 13 year on maintain and rebuild our school , can the Minister just explain to I what will happen to school , such as Hall Road Academy , in my constituency , that be desperately in need of a rebuild ? will that school get the rebuild now ? finally , if she be really short of cash in her Department , perhaps one option might be to bring in a swear box to raise a few bob . [ Laughter . ] I thank the right hon . Lady for her joke , but as a Scouser I have a bit of a high bar , I think . in addition to our target work on RAAC , we have continue to invest in improve the condition of the school estate , with over £ 15 billion allocate since 2015 , include £ 1 . 8 billion commit for 2023 - 24 . that be inform by the consistent datum on the condition of the estate . by the way , the Labour programme , about which there be scathing report , do not even look at the condition — it be not a factor or a criterion . on top of that , we will transform 500 school through our school rebuilding programme , prioritise those building in the poor condition and those where there be evidence of safety issue . will individual school have direct access to the money and the temporary accommodation , if they need it ? and will every local education authority make an urgent statement about their role in commission the school in the first place and about maintenance , where they be responsible ? we have put a caseworker in place so that each school can work with that caseworker , as well as have access to the temporary accommodation and the company that can do the prop work , which we have already secure , or to additional surveying , if require . we be work closely with local authority , but I urge the 5 % of local authority that have not respond to the questionnaire to respond — that be more important than ever . [ Official Report , 18 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 10mc . ] I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , but I urge she to do two thing . first , will she impress on the Prime Minister that this be a national - scale problem that will reach across all Departments , as we know there be other affect public building ? she mention put child ' s safety first , and I be sure we all agree with she , but in her discussion with the devolved authority , will she impress upon the Scottish Government the need for urgency ? as she mention , they be still say , as of today , that the building be safe . two primary school have be name in my constituency and I be concerned that perhaps the Scottish Government be not act with the urgency that be necessary . there be two way of go about this . the first be to go through the responsible body . to be fair , that be what we be do until 2019 , but then we do not think that we be be quick enough . we do not have a good enough picture of where RAAC be and what state it be in . that be why we start the direct questionnaire and survey programme that have enable we to have the datum to take quick action when we get new evidence over the summer . we will continue to share that new evidence with the devolved administration . I believe that sometimes it be right to take a direct approach . that be not typical for a Government Department in Whitehall , but sometimes it be the correct thing to do . that be what we have do , and I think that will put we in good stead for be decisive about keep pupil safe . the three school know to have RAAC in my constituency have all open safely to all student this week . I particularly thank the headteacher and team at Springfield primary school . they have to close their year 5 and 6 classroom last term , but immediately , within a week , the student be find accommodation in other school . all the building work have be complete over the summer and the prefab that have be order just in case be now be release to other school . it be right that child ' s safety come first , but it be also right that we be mindful of the language that we use towards child and do not make they more frightened than they need to be . I would encourage colleague not to exaggerate or generalise the risk , but to work with each affected school calmly to get the issue resolve for child . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we be work proactively . we have the information , the skill and the people who be go to support we . what be most important be that we minimise the disruption to child . as my right hon . friend point out about her own constituency , in most case there be minimal impact , but we have to work together to ensure child be back in school as soon as possible . I be a teacher at a secondary school when the Building Schools for the Future funding be cut by the Conservative - lead Government in 2010 . have the Department for Education carry out an assessment compare school that have their BSF funding cut with those that have RAAC ? yes , I have , and there be not very many . there be two thing that we need to know about Building Schools for the Future . the first be that it be not base on condition , and the second be that it do not include a single primary school . many of the school that we have identify — 156 of they — be primary school . I be not involve in the Building Schools for the Future programme , but I have look at it in great detail . I remember it from grow up in Knowsley . the school that be build do not contain a single classroom wall . know locally as the " wacky warehouse " , they cost a fortune and then cost million to put right afterwards . I point the hon . Lady to the James review , which be pretty scathing about the programme , say that it be bureaucratic , that it fail to deliver — I think it deliver 180 school — that it be not base on condition and that it build wacky warehouse in Knowsley . as the MP with eight identify school with RAAC issue and two other under investigation , which be more , I think , than in any other constituency , may I thank she for her exemplary statement ? it be perfectly rational and demonstrate that she personally have take on her responsibility despite the political danger that she have put herself into . may I just ask about the caseworker ? be there one caseworker for each school ? if not , how many school be each caseworker have to deal with ? it would also be helpful if we could contact the caseworker , as my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) say . finally , may I ask about the school building that have already close ? Mistley Norman in my constituency , for example , be close in July , and the Secretary of State will know that I have a meeting with Baroness Barran about that in July , which mean that we have be work on this long before the issue blow up last week . will the capital funding be make available to rebuild Mistley Norman School ? my hon . friend be right that he have many impact school in his area . on capital funding , the Chancellor be very clear that we will do whatever be necessary to keep child safe . there be three stage . the first be the funding to make sure that we put all the mitigation in place . the second be to look at revenue funding if that be require on an ongoing basis , and the third be the rebuild programme . on the caseworker , there be just over 50 of they , so they be more or less deal with two school each . on the matter of access to the caseworker , as I have say , right now they be focus on the school , but the helpline be suppose to have access to the same information . perhaps we will consider a specific approach for Essex mp , so that we can go through the work in detail with some of the caseworker , because I think that could be helpful . after Grenfell , many of we raise concern about the risk to building from other material , but they fall on deaf ear . this morning , the Prime Minister say that some 900 school could be affect . warning be make to the Government many year ago , but they fall on deaf ear . can the Secretary of State explain to the british people — parent who be rightly concerned about whether their kid and their kid ' school could be affect — that their child will be safe and that she will put in place the support and resource that be urgently need to respond to this crisis , which have be bring about by the negligence and incompetence of her government ? the hon . Lady need to know that the Labour party be also warn about this issue in 1999 , 2002 and 2007 , and what do it do ? nothing — not a single survey . yesterday , the shadow Secretary of State dismiss concern about RAAC in Wales , because the Government there be follow labour policy . as soon as a school collapse in 2018 , we issue a warning to all responsible body that they be the one that be responsible . we also issue guidance on how to identify RAAC , and , in answer to the hon . Lady ' s question , instruct they to use structural engineer to do that . we also think that we need to go far , which be why we be probably the only country in the world that have a good understanding of where RAAC be in all our school . obviously , this be a very serious issue , but when I talk to the chief executive of a large , multi - academy trust at the end of last week and over the weekend , he say that the Government have absolutely make the right decision in the guidance that they have give . as we have hear , we be particularly affect in Essex — about half the school be in Essex . indeed , Madam Deputy Speaker , I believe that you be very concerned about six school in your own constituency . while we be work through those , one issue that have be raise with I be that of ongoing funding . I know that the Secretary of State have already address this , but can she again confirm from the Dispatch Box that any additional revenue cost — reasonable revenue cost — will be meet so that budgetary concern will not be a barrier to deliver face - to - face education that our child so richly deserve ? I be glad that my hon . Friend use the word " reasonable " , because the reason we have ask for the revenue to come on an individual basis be that they will all differ . obviously , we need to ensure that it be reasonable , and that it be put in place . we will certainly support any school with additional funding as be require . due to the fact that , as he mention , almost half the case be in Essex , it probably warrant set up a working group with the Essex mps , so that we can work through they in great detail . excellent . I call Jess Phillips . I believe Birmingham be quite badly affect , if the Secretary of State would like to come and hang out with we . I have a number of school in my constituency that have RAAC confirm , and some where it be suspect . one particular concern of the headteacher be that they be this week expect Ofsted to come in , have have to completely redo all their timetable and change all their teaching arrangement over the weekend . I wonder whether the Secretary of State can give some assurance that that will not be allow to happen where that be the case for any of these school . on timing , the Secretary of State say early that she have team work for week on procure portacabin , which suggest that she know before 31 August that more school would need to close all or part of their building . can she explain why she have people procure portacabin for week ? very happily . the hon . Lady might work out that I do know this in great detail . the portacabin that we be procure for week be for the 56 building that we have already identify with RAAC that be critical . we take those immediately out of use , so we have that need for those 52 — it be actually 52 . the 104 that be non - critical be now deem critical because of this new evidence , so we will continue to do that . we have contact more supplier already and we have that in place , because we do not want to have a delay there . I be always happy to visit the hon . Lady in Birmingham . in term of the particular Ofsted case , if she want to give I the detail we will see , if it be appropriate , whether we can delay it . Ofsted usually delay if there be some specific issue within a school , so we can raise that with it . put the safety of child first be obviously right , but the Secretary of State will know that Kingsdown School , a special school in my constituency of Southend , house some of the most vulnerable child in Southend and indeed the south - east , and be currently close due to RAAC . the headmistress , Louise Robinson , and the new cabinet portfolio holder Helen Boyd at Southend City Council have be brilliant , work around the clock — I thank the Schools Minister too for his support last week — but they need three thing . they need the result of a risk assessment , some demountable classroom and some structural remediation measure . will the Secretary of State please write and tell we exactly when those will materialise ? I be very happy to . I know that Kingsdown be one of the first identify , and obviously have additional special need as well . a caseworker be look into that . also , just so that it be clear why we make the decision not to publish all the name initially , Kingsdown ' s name be publish by the council and it be inundate by medium , which make it incredibly difficult . the school ask for our help in ensure that it do not have too much of a medium distraction , so we really need to be conscious of that as well . the Department for Education itself assess in 2020 that it need around £ 7 billion a year for capital funding for school . the Department bid , after some negotiation , for £ 4 billion in the 2020 spending review but be allocate only £ 3 . 1 billion . that be after over a decade of underinvestment in capital and maintenance in school building . can the Secretary of State not acknowledge that some of these thing be chicken come home to roost ? as I say in answer to an early question , we be invest significantly in our school . the overall capital budget of the 2021 spending review be £ 19 billion , of which £ 7 billion be allocate to the year 2023 - 24 . I commend the work of Baroness Barran and county councillor Tony Ball and all his team at Essex County Council , who have work their sock off ultimately to keep child safe , but I regret to tell the Secretary of State that , have now manage to speak to all the head of affected school in my constituency , there be a number of difference between what I have be tell by her Department and the ground truth that I have be tell by the headteacher . for instance , back in July Hockley Primary be promise eight relocatable classroom ready to go by today ; they now will not be available until mid - November . when the list be publish later this week , can the Secretary of State please ensure that the information in it be absolutely accurate and up to date , because that be the good way to reassure parent , staff and pupil , not least those parent who will be very upset if they hear with virtually no notice that they have to take week off work because their child can not go to school ? my right hon . friend raise one of the challenge that we face . in the case of Hockley , soft ground have mean that we have to put footing in place before we can put in the temporary accommodation . each site be different to some degree . that be one reason we be take time to ensure mitigation could be put in by school . it be difficult because each school could have specific circumstance . I be afraid that the list and the information will evolve over time as we get more and more detail , and the caseworker will keep we up to date on that . today the Secretary of State have prove the value of have medium study on the curriculum . on the serious point , I have be notify by both my local education authority , Tameside and Stockport , that no school under their control be affect . what they can not tell I be whether any of the voluntary - aided , academy or free school within their area be affect . I would like to know how soon we will get those assurance . on Russell Scott Primary School in the Denton part of my constituency , which we have battle to get successfully add to the Government ' s school rebuilding programme — it have its own issue , not associate with RAAC — can the Secretary of State assure I and the headteacher that it will not be bump down the programme to patch up this mess ? if the hon . Gentleman have school impact in his area — multi - academy trust — they will have hear directly from we and he should have a " dear colleague " letter with the detail . then he can contact the helpline to get more information , if he want to . I thank he for his kind comment about media study ; I think it prove that that be not what I do before I become a politician . in term of Building Schools for the Future , it will be base on condition and need , but of course we will work with he and his school and tell he its condition and need and whether it be prioritise . the Secretary of State be absolutely right to prioritise the safety of our child and to close school where necessary . will she now give the House an assurance that those 600 priority school will be survey as quickly as possible ? then we can move on to all school and find out where RAAC be present , and take the appropriate remediation for every school that have it . I assure my hon . friend that it be already below that number because we have be survey every day . we have now contract eight building survey company — we have three ; we now have eight — to ensure that we have sufficient capacity to do that as quickly as possible . we will do a survey for all the one that be suspect to have RAAC — as I say , most of they will probably not go on to be confirm to have it — and we hope to get through they all in the next couple of week . as one of the Ministers who come into the DFE back in 2010 , we find that , contrary to some of the claim make by those on the Opposition Front Bench , Building Schools for the future be hugely expensive , hugely bureaucratic , involve elaborate quango , with most of the money be spend before a single brick have be lay , and mostly build with private finance initiative funding , saddle school with interest payment for 30 year . how many of these school may have be PFI - fund , and who will pick up the remedial work bill for they ? my hon . friend remind we all of the other legacy of the Building Schools for the Future programme : the pfi that probably they be still pay for today . the Department have take a different approach and have reduce cost by simplify the design and construction , with more standardisation of design , and find economy of scale by offer central procurement , and we have reduce the cost significantly of each school . on PFI , I will have get back to he , because I do not know how many of these , if any , have any remain PFI — certainly not under our watch . in Newham , we have 8 , 363 child in temporary accommodation thank to the Government ' s housing policy . that be more homeless child in one borough than in three whole english region combine . at the moment , we have one primary school confirm with RAAC and several other , include a very large secondary school , still in limbo . school closure may therefore be a problem for thousand of child who , as during covid , will not have access to remote learning . can I at least be assure today that , this time , this Government will prioritise child without access and provide particular and individual resource to support their education , so that they do not endure yet another blight on their life chance due to the continue incompetence of this government ? I assure the hon . Lady that this be nothing like covid ; it be go to be much quick . we will reduce the impact on face - to - face learn as much as possible and of course we will prioritise get child back and make sure that they be in school . on Newham , I be sure she be absolutely delighted that , due to the reform of the Conservative Government , it be now one of the well - perform area in the country . I be not aware of any RAAC school in Stoke - on - Trent , but we have a number of school with wide serious structural and safety issue , particularly Trentham Academy in my constituency , which we hope would be include in the school rebuilding programme , but that be stop because of the PFI agreement . will my right hon . friend ensure that , just as with all the RAAC school , we assess school for wide structural and safety issue and look at how we can ensure that the school that be part of PFI agreement can have those issue address as well ? I know my hon . friend have raise that particular school before and have have a couple of meeting on it . the school rebuilding programme be focus on condition and we will specifically work with he to understand what option there be for that school and what PFI be do to stop its eligibility for rebuild . I call Sarah Dyke for her maiden question . child in Somerset have go back to school and be go back to school this week in building that may collapse at any moment . at least three school in Somerton and Frome may have this weak concrete . will the Education Secretary apologise for all the stress that this Government have cause family because they have slash repair bill and sit on their hand for month ? I thank the hon . Lady for her maiden question . it be a little ill - informed . if the school in Somerton and Frome be identify , she will have a " dear colleague " letter ; I will just check that have happen , because I know she be new to the House . if the school be suspect , as long as her local authority or multi - academy trust have respond , we will be come to do the survey as soon as possible and then we will have mitigation action in place to make sure that there be minimum disruption to child in Somerton and Frome . to reassure Erewash resident , will my right hon . friend reconfirm her commitment to the school rebuilding programme , specifically the two recently approve project at Kirk Hallam Community Academy and Saint John Houghton Catholic Voluntary Academy in my constituency , and can she reassure I that the timetable for those rebuild will be unaffected by the need to carry out repair to school building find to contain RAAC ? I think I have probably well get the name of the school and check the detail , but I believe that they will still be go ahead if they have already be approve . if my hon . friend can give I the detail , I will make sure I get an answer to she quickly . the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee rightly draw attention to the National Audit Office report that highlight the serious underfunding of the capital programme in the Department for Education , which be the real cause of these problem . that report also say : " DfE currently lack comprehensive information on the extent and severity of potential safety issue across the school estate " . that be a damn indictment . the Secretary of State can not stand up in this House today and say that our child be safe , because she do not know whether any more systemic failure of school present safety problem be go to occur . we have do three building and condition survey , plus we have have the RAAC surveying and questionnaire programme , so we know a lot more than anybody have ever know , include everybody on the Opposition Benches . it seem that the risk of RAAC be present in two of my South Leicestershire school be very low , but as yet it have not be rule out . would my right hon . friend please confirm that she and her team in the Department for Education will work as fast as be reasonably possible to ensure that the school affect be give the information they need to inform parent ? I be not sure of the status of those two school , but if their questionnaire have be provide and they be on the suspect RAAC list , there will be surveyor go in in the next couple of week . at that point , if they be identify as have RAAC , we will immediately take action similar to what we do last week with the 104 . parent will be inform immediately if that action have to be take , but , as I say early , two third of school that be suspect do not turn out to have RAAC . seven Mills primary school in my constituency be find to have RAAC follow an inspection early in the year . it be a small school and have have to close its main hall , which be its big space . I visit the school last Friday and see for myself the logistical challenge that the school leadership have have to overcome at such short notice to ensure that they can deliver teaching , school lunch and physical education from other space . while the school be not one of those most severely impact by RAAC , I be concerned that school in this category , which at present be able to remain open , will be leave behind in capital work and in receive the associate DFE funding and support for those work . every school impact by RAAC need to be remedie as quickly as possible , so what assurance can the Secretary of State provide that school that be currently able to remain open will not have to endure disruption for a long period because they may be deem a low priority ? it be our intention that all the school remain open as much as possible and we expect that most of they will . I thank the headteacher and all of the staff at the hon . Lady ' s school , because they have work very quickly , they have do a lot to make sure that they move thing around within the school system so that they can keep child learn and they have be flexible . if there be disruption that be incur cost , or if they wish to access temporary accommodation or other cost , they can talk to the Department for Education and see whether they be eligible for that programme . rise — order . we have a problem with time here this afternoon , because we have a great deal of business to get through later today and I be aware that more than 30 people be still try to catch my eye to ask a question . normally , I would allow a statement to run for an hour . I will not curtail this statement after an hour , because I appreciate that every member who be here have a specific problem to bring to the Secretary of State , but I ask , please , for short question , which will allow the Secretary of State to give short answer . we have do all of the political bit , and we do not need any more of that — just the question and the answer , please . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — my question will be short . Multi - academy trust be not get in touch with mps . could the Secretary of State please ensure they do ? I have two that be not in my constituency . that bring I to another problem : as the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , be aware , Haygrove School in my constituency be a brand - new building that have now basically be condemn . the problem be that people think it be the cement . that building be two year old . I be afraid , Secretary of State , that decision need to be make now about the building be re - do as soon as possible . my hon . friend should have the detail of school in his constituency in a " dear colleague " letter , and he can phone the helpline to get information on those school . in addition , I be sure that the school would appreciate he get in touch . if he have any difficulty with that , I or my right hon . friend the Schools Minister would be very happy to help he . one positive from this farce be that we should hear no more lecture from Conservative Members about we not fix the roof when the sun be shine . how detailed and accurate will the list be when the Secretary of State produce it ? I ask because she email I on Friday night say that no school in my constituency be affect — one may be a possibility — but on Sunday I hear from a headteacher who have have to make arrangement because RAAC have be discover in their school . the Secretary of State tell I that no school in my constituency have a problem , but I know for a fact that that information be incorrect , so can she give an assurance that , when it come out , the list will be 100 % accurate ? it be very difficult to ensure 100 % accuracy on a move feast , but I will look at the case in question . we have caseworker and a caseworker system , we have identify all the case and the hon . Member should have all the detail of all the case in his constituency in the " dear colleague " letter . if anyone do not have that , please contact I and the Schools Minister , and we will check it out . may I thank the Secretary of State for give such a measured and reasonable statement in these very try circumstance ? the timing be terrible , as she acknowledge , but it be right that we put child ' s safety first . can she confirm that the reason the timing be terrible be that new fact have come to light , and that be why we have have to make the decision that we have ? one hundred per cent . the new information , which come as late as towards the end of August , be what make we take a different approach . I do not want to do that — it be the last thing I want to do — but it be the right thing to do . can the Secretary of State confidently confirm for I that every school that have be identify as have RAAC have be contact by the Government on what action to take ? yes , I can confirm that those that have be identify as have RAAC — there be two type : critical and non - critical condition — will have have action . we change the action for the non - critical . those that may be wait be those with suspect RAAC , for which we will be do survey in the next two week . I be not sure whether the hon . Lady have a school in mind , but it could be in either of those category . the information that I have from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be that there be no confirmed case of RAAC in Stroud school , but three school be take survey as a precautionary measure , and those survey will be accelerate . will she take this opportunity to reassure parent and school ? if they listen to the medium or to those on the Opposition Front Bench , they will think that every school in the country be crumble , which be absolutely not the case . will she also talk to the Department about ensure that headteacher get information ahead of the public and the medium , because we know that that have not always happen , and it be important to family ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . to put the scale into context , there be 22 , 500 school in the country and 156 have be confirm with RAAC . of those that be suspect , which will go through the survey process , probably a third or less will be confirm with RAAC . so it be important that we put that into context . we have take tough decision and the right action . the vast majority of parent , teacher and child will not be impact by RAAC in our school . what have be expose be how close the Government be prepared to go to catastrophe in one of our school before they take last - minute action this summer , just before school go back . a school in my constituency have have to close substantial part of its building . a letter from the DFE , follow their discussion , say : " as official discuss with " the trust " the immediate action should be treat as a short - term measure and you should already be develop a long - term plan for remediation of RAAC panel in your building . " the next paragraph go on : " please note the building survey in June 2023 be carry out as part of the DFE ' s central RAAC Assessment Programme . as such , it should be consider in addition to , rather than in place of , any professional advice that you seek . " just exactly how will the Government determine what they will pay for ? what work will they accept ? will it be the professional judgment of the people the school engage , or will it be the surveyor from the eight company that the Secretary of State have just speak about ? how will these matter be resolve go forward , because the devil in these thing be always in the detail ? order . before the Secretary of State answer , we be not do very well on the short short question , be we ? of course , it be up to colleague . if the House decide that it want to vote at midnight tonight , that be fine by I , but I think that it be probably not the consensus , so please let we take some action now : everybody look at what they have write down and cut it in half . I can confirm that surveyor register with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors be acceptable . the Secretary of State know that in July I meet the Minister for Schools , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , when St James ' Primary School in my constituency be find to have RAAC . the headteacher Mr Tutt and his staff and governor have do a heroic job in find space for the child and have work do during the summer to restore the classroom . will the Minister meet I straight after this statement to confirm that they now pass muster so that the school can reopen as plan ? yes , I can confirm that the Minister for Schools be do a meeting with mps after this , and he can meet after that . those involve have do an excellent job , and I thank they all for the action that they have take . we will , by the end of today , work with my right hon . friend to ensure that we know how that can be finalise . there be conflicting report about William Cassidi Primary School , St Michael ' s Catholic Academy and Frederick Nattrass Primary Academy . the Secretary of State tell I in her letter that they may have the dodgy concrete and that it could take week to survey they , but Stockton - on - Tees Borough Council say that no school in the borough be affect and all remain open . how can school leader reassure parent and the child themselves that they be safe in school when there be such conflicting information , and who be right ? there should not be conflict information . the " dear colleague " letter will be right , because that school will have an assign caseworker . that be a school that the hon . Gentleman think will be survey , so it be not one that have be identify so far — I name three school . okay . I will check that out on the hon . Gentleman ' s behalf , but if the school be go to be survey , it could be that the council do not know about it . in the face of change evidence , the cautious approach be clearly the right one , but , as have be acknowledge , that lead many pupil , include some at Waddesdon School in my constituency , back into receive online learning rather than the face - to - face classroom learning that they deserve , which , equally , have a knock - on impact on a small number of child when it come to safeguard . over the weekend and today , I have be in close contact with headteacher Matthew Abbott and his team at Waddesdon School , and so far , as of their call at 2 pm , they have not be offer direct assistance in get temporary classroom . rather , they have be give the impression that they be to be leave to their own device in procure their own under the usual public sector procurement rule , which be very onerous when it come to rent thing such as village hall or the Methodist church . will my right hon . friend intervene to ensure that Waddesdon School do get support on temporary classroom , or , if it be leave to its own device , that the public sector procurement rule be make more lax when it come to get those facility ? the reason that we have deliberately speak to and work with three portacabin or equivalent provider be to avoid just that problem . if my hon . friend give we the detail , we will follow up on that . I fear that the Secretary of State will rue she boast about her good understanding as a hostage to fortune in what be go on today . late on Friday evening , she write to I to say that Walthamstow School for Girls be be survey for suspect RAAC . that be a source of deep frustration to my local authority , which , when it see that there be national incident , spend its own money survey every school in our borough and then pay for the remedial work . it have tell the Department for Education about that not once , not twice , but three time . when there be this little grip on what be go on , how can any parent , pupil or school staff member have any confidence ? if the Secretary of State want to know why people be laugh rather than say that she be do a good job , she need to look in the mirror . I will take the hon . Lady ' s advice and look in the mirror later . it be the responsible body ' s job . if it have already go ahead — as per the warning we issue in 2018 ; we tell everybody what they need to do — I be delighted that it get on and do that work . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for the hotline that she set up . I be pleased to say that it have inform my office that no RAAC have be find in my constituency , but I welcome the work she have do to keep child safe where it have be find . the Sir William Robertson Academy in my constituency do not have RAAC , but it do have other structural issue and be in the school rebuilding programme . the Chancellor have say that the money require to repair the concrete will be available . can my right hon . friend confirm that that be new money , and that the rebuild of Sir William Robertson Academy will still go ahead ? I will have to write to my hon . friend about that particular school , because I do not have the list of all the school rebuilding , but the intention be that for school that have already be identify and announce it will still go ahead . I receive an email from the Secretary of State at 7 . 15 pm on Friday , the weekend before school be due to go back , advise that a school in my constituency might be affect , so the truth be that the Secretary of State do not even know . can she advise when parent will know whether or not their child be safe at school , because this be not good enough , be it ? they be safe in school . when I say that a school might be affect , that mean it have be identify as contain suspect RAAC from the questionnaire that the responsible body have send back . those be the one we will be do the survey on in the next two week . as I say , usually two third of they be not affect , but it sound to I like the hon . Gentleman ' s school be in that category , and we will be get to it in the next two week . when the issue of RAAC across the whole public estate be raise , I ask the Department what estimate it have make of the implication of its policy on the use of that material . on 25 July , I be tell : " it be the responsibility of those who run school and who work with their school day to day to manage the safety and maintenance of their building … the Department provide support on a case by case basis if it be alert to a serious safety issue which responsible body can not manage independently . " can the Secretary of State tell I who the responsible body be before this issue be bring to her attention ? be it the headteacher and the govern body , the local authority or the Department for Education ? the responsible body be typically the local authority or the multi - academy trust , but it be fair to say that we have recently change our approach to become more directly involved , to make sure we help school and responsible body to move quickly on this issue . I put on record my thank to Hornsey School for Girls and the local authority , which do have a plan for student to return safely to school . my question be whether the money that be intend for the neighbouring school — Fortismere , which be riddle with asbestos , and Highgate Wood School , which be desperate for a new sport hall as its current one be crumble and dickensian — will be use for Hornsey School for girl ? be one part of the budget just go to be raid so that it can prop up a fail government , a fail education service and a fail Education Department ? I do not agree with the last couple of comment , but if the school have already be confirm for the school rebuilding programme , that will continue . of course , education be devolve in Wales , but as the Secretary of State have rightly say , this be not a time for political point scoring , nor be it really a time for jurisdictional squabbling . give that this issue predate devolution by several decade , will she confirm that , should the situation arise in Wales , any remedial funding require to repair the building will still be provide by the UK Government ? I think the Welsh Government will be provide the response to RAAC in Wales and also the funding for it . as the hon . member for Delyn ( Mr Roberts ) have just say , the school that be suffer from RAAC be build before devolution and the advent of the Welsh Government and have be inspect properly by the local authority . the Secretary of State have say to the Welsh Education Minister , " I stand ready to support you " , yet the Chancellor have say that there be no new money . might not the people of Wales , and the people of Holyhead and Menai Bridge in particular , feel her word as an empty political gesture ? I think the hon . Gentleman know that education be devolve in Wales . the Secretary of State have say on several occasion that she and her Department be prioritise pupil still access face - to - face learning . as that be the case , when she publish her definitive list on Thursday , will she also publish an estimate of the number of pupil who be not able to access face - to - face learning , and will she commit to the House that she will update that estimate on an ongoing basis ? I can not promise my right hon . friend that that information will be contain in what be publish this week — which be more likely to be about the school and the mitigation that be in place — but we will then put together the information on pupil who be learn face to face and those who be learn remotely , and we will update that regularly . the Secretary of State will know that people go into teaching because they have a passion for educate young people and give they a bright future . they do not go into teaching to become building manager , and give that over the past 13 year lot of caretaker and school building manager have be cut because of school budget cut , what confidence do she have that the information she be get from these questionnaire be accurate ? it be the responsible body , not the school , that be respond to the questionnaire . as the hon . Lady say , the schoolteacher be there to teach the child , but the responsible body will be responsible for fill in the questionnaire . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to publish the list of impact school as soon as possible . she be urge responsible body that have not respond to the questionnaire to fill they in and return they , and she say that 5 % have not do so . could we not make it a statutory requirement for responsible body to return those questionnaire , and will she think about publish a list of those responsible body that have not do so ? my colleague Baroness Barran have write to those responsible body again and request that they respond to the questionnaire by the end of the week . we will then need to consider what we do with those from which we be still await response . I speak with the chief exec of a local trust early today , and that trust ' s top priority be how it be go to fund this work . I be worried to hear the word " reasonable cost " from the Secretary of State just now . can she confirm that a list of what be consider reasonable cost will be publish as soon as possible , and would that include heating , for example ? clearly , heat a portacabin over winter be go to be much more costly than heat a well - insulate classroom . actually , the portacabin of today be very well insulated , but I would advise the hon . Lady that any particular case should be refer to the Department . the school can come directly to the Department with its revenue request , and we will look at each one on an individual basis . last year , it be announce that Wales High School , one of the large secondary school in Rother Valley , be part of the school rebuilding programme , with an investment of ten of million of pound to improve condition for child . do the Secretary of State agree that this Government have invest in rebuild our school , so that all of our child across the country have a well standard of education ? yes , I absolutely agree . our school rebuilding programme be much more efficient and much cheap . it come complete with classroom wall , and it be definitely much quick to build as well . how many of the school affect be academy school ? be any of they free school or stand - alone academy ? for those school that be not directly accountable to the Department for Education , what support be the Government give to local authority and diocesan authority ? in case such as that of the school affect in my constituency , it be the Church of England that be on the frontline , so it need extra help as well . the Church of England be the responsible body for some of the school as well . the school affect be build between 1950 and the mid - 90 — it be only school build during that period — and we will work with all the responsible body . if an expert in concrete advise that a building might collapse , it be an obvious call to say that child should not be teach in it , so the Secretary of State be absolutely right to make the decision she make last week . when it come to ensure timely and accurate information for local authority and local representative , how do she propose to make sure that local council and local diocesan board of education be keep fully update , particularly as the result of survey come forward ? we intend to publish management information . as I say , the list that will be publish this week will have the initial information about mitigation . we will publish more management information probably from the follow week , and then we will regularly update it as case move on and move off . St James Catholic Primary School in my constituency have critical RAAC identify in June . despite what the Secretary of State tell the medium this morning , this have not be immediately fix , and the school be now close . minister and the DFE guidance have be contradictory on fund temporary cost , and the school have be tell to fund travel and temporary arrangement itself . this be not acceptable . can she confirm a timetable for work to make school safe , and that all cost will be fully fund ? finally , she make it clear early today that she do not consider this situation to be her fault or her responsibility , so maybe she can tell we who she think have be " sit on their arsis " ? I make the point to a journalist early — an off - the - cuff remark after the interview have finish — but I be respond to the fact that , in effect , the journalist have interview I in a way that suggest everything my fault ; say everything in 1994 be my fault , when I be work elsewhere . I point this out to the journalist , off the cuff — [ interruption . ] no , I be not thin - skinned at all . it be something I say off the cuff . on that school , which be a much more serious issue , some of the school on the critical list be close if they have a large degree of RAAC . those child should be be accommodate , but if they be not and there be no plan to do so , the Department for Education will be pay for the mitigation that will be put in place . order . can we please use temperate language ? may I offer some reassurance to the House and to parent in Nottinghamshire ? the county council have be work with the Department and school for many month to get survey in place to make sure we have an accurate picture of our school estate . as a result of that work , for which I be very grateful , the sum total of disruption in Nottinghamshire this week be the return of one primary school be delay by a couple of day . that be a good result in the circumstance of this late change of guidance , so I be really grateful for that work and the support of the DFE . there will no doubt be a massive run on the procurement of temporary building in the come day and week , but there will also be exist temporary building on school estate that be underuse or unused . academy trust will not naturally talk to each other about that , so would the Department consider help to ensure that exist building end up in the most appropriate place at the right time ? I thank my hon . friend for that , and also for all the work that he and his council have do — they have be exemplary in get on top of this issue . on temporary building , I be very happy to have a further discussion . at the moment we have three supplier and a lot of stock , and we be get ready to enable that to be use . if there be underuse stock elsewhere , we will be happy to consider that . in 2016 , the Levelling up Secretary admit that his 2010 ditching of Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme be one of his bad mistake . in 2011 , a High Court judge say that the cancellation of the programme amount to an abuse of power . despite year of warning , the Government have do very little to ensure that our public building be safe . be the Secretary of State ashamed of this record , and will she apologise to taxpayer , who want to know why they have to pay so much for so little ? absolutely not , and I would just like to point out to the hon . Gentleman that the Priority School Building programme school be one third cheap per square metre than those build under Building Schools for the Future , and that be a fact from the National Audit Office in 2017 . a new and much - need special educational need and disability free school for the East Riding be announce in March 2023 . can the Secretary of State confirm that there will be no delay in the building of this free school , and that she will not be follow the advice of the former Department for Education permanent secretary who say that free school programme should be " second to safety " and therefore at risk ? I will look at the hon . Lady ' s free special school , but we announce seven new free special school in the summer holiday . this be very much part of our building of more place for special educational need , which we know be badly need in many constituency . I wish to impress upon the Secretary of State the fact that repair must not come from current education budget , since in Scotland these budget be already reel from Labour ' s appalling private finance initiative legacy , which sell out the taxpayer . can she offer I an assurance that the UK Government will provide all necessary additional financial support to all affected school in Scotland , such as the PE block in Ardrossan Academy in my constituency ? while she be weigh up the funding issue , can I ask she to bear in mind that , in the last financial year , Scotland ' s capital budget be cut by £ 185 million in the face of soar inflation ? I do sympathise with the hon . Lady . the PFI deal that be put in place all over the country , and which still blight the public sector today , be a hangover legacy of the last time Labour be in power . there be a very good reason why we should not trust it with our public service again . I have two school that be affect : St Bede ' s in my own constituency ; and St Leonard ' s in the City of Durham constituency , to which a lot of pupil travel from my constituency and which have be close . parent I be speak to over the weekend be both concerned about their education , and frustrated and angry , frankly , at the way the Government have deal with this . the Secretary of State say in her statement that her Department have be work all weekend . I speak to one of her civil servant this morning — a very nice gentleman , I have to say — and he tell I nothing , frankly , because he have nothing to tell I . I also speak to the head of St Bede ' s school this morning , who make sterling effort on Friday to try to get alternative provision in community centre and other building in the area , only to be tell that the Department have to sign these thing off . it be chaos , the way this be be deal with in County Durham . can I just say something about St Leonard ' s ? if the funding earmark for the rebuilding of St Leonard ' s have go through and not be stop by this Government , who instead make the ideological decision in 2011 to bring a free school to the City of Durham , which then close three year later , cost £ 4 million , that £ 4 million could have be spend on education in Durham . I thank the right hon . Gentleman , but just so that he be aware , and actually so that all member be aware , this be announce on Thursday and today be Monday . in that time , we have identify the building , we have get the portacabin , we have write to everybody — no , you haven ' t — not in Durham . we have get the contract for the portacabin . in a few day , we have actually stand up a helpline system and a caseworker system . I think the school , work with the caseworker , will be get all the mitigation in place , but it be a policy that be announce last Thursday . what happen last Friday be an absolute disgrace . my constituent be throw into disarray when St Leonard ' s school have to close . be the Secretary of State aware of the difficulty and distress this have cause ? Childcare and work have to be rearrange , all at the last minute and all against the backdrop of a cost of living crisis , so what support will be offer to those vulnerable pupil and family , especially those on free school meal ? will there be a promise of financial support for repair to the school , and when can the school expect a timescale to make the school safe ? I must say that the local authority and the Department for Education have be pretty useless , and I want to put on record my thank to Durham University , which be step up and try to be as proactive as it can to help solve this situation . of course , for parent and for child this be very difficult . I have say that if I could have do it any other way , I would have do so . but face with the information I have , I think that be the good thing to do to keep child safe in our school . I know the timing be very difficult . on the repair , yes , I can assure the hon . Lady that there will be support , first , to mitigate whatever the situation be at St Leonard ' s , and then in future when we look at whether it be refurbish or repair . thousand of parent will be concern , at the start of a school term , at their child once again be lock out of school and not get face - to - face teaching , because they know the consequence of this policy . we see that during covid , when school be close down , and we be still live with the consequence for educational achievement , the disproportional impact on the poor , long - term school absence , mental health problem and so on . I hope this be not go to be the default position of the Department for Education every time it identify risk in a school . could the Secretary of State tell we what discussion she have have with Northern Ireland official , whether a number of school have be identify in Northern Ireland and whether the approach in Northern Ireland be go to be that if the school be identify , then they will be close ? we have write to Northern Ireland official and offer support . it be absolutely our priority to minimise remote learning as much as possible . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : we still see the impact on our child today . for the critical 52 school that be mitigate , remote learning be need for , on average , six day , but we be try to minimise that as much as possible . I have 40 school in my constituency , which be one of the poor in the UK ; they simply can not afford another crisis . they have face austerity , coronavirus , energy bill and strike . what support can be offer to school and parent in Erdington who will be affect by this ? also , we have talk about other public building , so how will the right hon . Lady work to ensure that what have be learn from this will be pass on to other area so that the same mistake be not make again ? if there be school in the hon . Lady ' s area , they will have be identify and we will be work with a caseworker to mitigate those as soon as possible ; if there be suspect school , we will be work to ensure that we survey they as soon as possible . on the point about the wide public realm , school be obviously quite specific as there be many building — 64 , 000 block — and most of they do not have an estate manager , so they be manage in different way , but every Department have their own programme . I call Jim Shannon . hear , hear . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be wait for other hon . member to hop in ahead of I , but there we be . I thank the Secretary of State for the answer she have give . in her introduction , she refer to England , Wales and Northern Ireland , because there be issue in Northern Ireland as well . I understand that education be a devolved matter , but accord to medium report at the weekend , Saintfield High School in my constituency be have some of the repair work do . what discussion have take place in Cabinet to ensure that school in Northern Ireland have the help and assistance they need to make safe their building ? the restricted budget must take in the increase cost of these work in Northern Ireland due to the logistic of this very specialised work ? as I have mention , we have write to official in Northern Ireland and offer to have meeting to pass on information and good practice and to work with they closely . we have all listen carefully to what minister have be say . the Prime Minister say it be " completely and utterly wrong " to blame he for fail to fully fund a programme to rebuild England ' s school when he be Chancellor . but be it not in fact the case that what be truly completely and utterly wrong , and what be completely and truly wrong , be for this Prime Minister and this Government to pursue an ideological fixation with austerity , which have cause the life of child in this country to be put at critical risk ? I can give the hon . Gentleman some good news . we be go to be fund school more than ever before : £ 60 billion a year , and the overall capital budget , as I have say , be £ 19 billion , and that be from the spending review in 2021 , of which £ 7 billion be allocate to 2023 - 24 . we have be build to continue at the same building rate of new school for a long time . at least four school in my constituency have be affect by the RAAC issue . the Secretary of State will be aware that Willowbrook Mead Primary Academy have to close without notice , with child be teach online . the Secretary of State ' s letter warn about the danger arrive after child and staff have be back in dangerous building in Leicester for three day because school there reopen a week early than most — the start of the school term in Leicester be last week . what do she have to say to the parent , carer and guardian in my constituency whose vulnerable child be put at risk by the Government ' s lack of prompt action , investment and care ? I be aware that , as the hon . Lady say , Leicester ' s school start a little early . however , the information on which we base our decision only really come forward at the end of August , so when we act we have to act on new information , and that be what trigger the change . of course , I be very sorry to parent and child because it have cause disruption to the start of their year , which be the last thing I want to do , but my priority be keep they safe in school . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for respond to well in excess of 60 Back Benchers for over an hour and a half . Personal Statement 6 . 45 pm with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a personal statement regard an exchange that occur on 13 and 14 September 2022 between myself and the then Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) . during this exchange I use intemperate and inappropriate language , which I regret and I apologise for shortly after . my behaviour lead to a complaint . the complaint be initially dismiss by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards . however , this decision be appeal and subsequently reverse by the Independent Expert Panel . I accept the decision that my conduct constitute a breach of the bullying and harassment policy , and have since reflect on my behaviour . I reiterate my apology make to the complainant follow the breach . I apologise to they again now , and I apologise to the House fully and unreservedly . I will do my utmost to ensure this do not happen again . thank you very much . point of Order 6 . 46 pm on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . in a previous point of order on 12 July I say that I have not receive a reply to the letter I send to the Prime Minister on 17 January , and I can confirm that I have not receive a response to that letter at that point . however , in the spirit of my elect Representatives ( code of Conduct ) Bill , which aim to restore trust in our politic , I wish to clarify that I have receive a separate response to my June follow - up letter to the Prime Minister from the noble Baroness Neville - Rolfe on 7 July , and I have write to she to make that clear and to thank she . as such , I would be grateful if I could amend the record . I be sure the House be incredibly grateful that the hon . Lady have do so in such a speedy fashion . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be important to note that anything say in this House be note by Hansard in perpetuity . can you please clarify whether it be in order for member of Parliament to ask for their family history to be forget ? the family of former MP for Eddisbury Antoinette Sandbach be deeply involve in the slave trade and amass wealth as a result of this brutality . the former Member have threaten the University of Cambridge with legal action after an historian speak of her ancestor ' role in the slave trade . while her recent public apology for their role be welcome and necessary , those who sit in this House should not use their position to silence those who shine a light on the horror of the past . on a related point , Mr Deputy Speaker , do you also agree it be important that Members co - operate fully with any research into parliamentarian ' link to the transatlantic slave trade ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order and forward notice of it . I appreciate that she feel strongly about the importance of academic research into the transatlantic slave trade , as all of we in this House do , or should do , but the participation of individual member and former member in such research be a matter for those concern and not the Chair . however , the hon . Lady have make her point of view know and it stand on the record . Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill : Programme Motion ( no . 3 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 13 October 2022 ( Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill : Programme ) , as vary by the Order of 24 January 2023 ( Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 23 , 151 , 153 , 115 , 117 , 159 , 161 , 1 to 22 , 24 to 114 , 116 , 118 to 150 , 152 , 154 to 158 , 160 , 162 to 229 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 6 , 7 , 9 to 12 , 14 to 21 , 30 , 32 to 34 , 54 , 68 , 115 , 117 , 120 , 124 , 125 , 173 , 174 and 178 to 201 . if those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . after clause 46 - Register of member : information to be include and power to obtain it 6 . 50 pm I beg to move amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 23 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : Lords amendment 151 , and Government amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 153 , and Government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) . lord amendment 115 and 117 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 159 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 161 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 1 to 22 and 24 to 55 . lord amendment 56 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) in lieu . lord amendment 57 to 114 , 116 , 118 to 150 , 152 , 154 to 158 , 160 and 162 to 229 . it be a pleasure to bring this Bill back to the House . it be crucial in ensure that we can bear down on kleptocrat , criminal and terrorist who abuse our open economy , while also strengthen the UK ' s reputation as a place where legitimate business can thrive . I be pleased to say that the Bill be now in a well place and there be a great deal more of it than when it leave for the other place back in January . when introduce , the Bill run to some 239 page ; it be now close to 400 . that reflect the spirit of genuine collaboration across both Houses and the fact that the Government have listen and take many sensible proposal on board . I take this opportunity to thank member of both Houses for their collaborative and cross - party approach . the Government make significant amendment to the Bill in the other place . it be now unquestionably a milestone piece of legislation that take the UK ' s fight against economic crime to an entirely new level . I will summarise a few key change , start with the game - change reform to corporate criminal liability . as the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , commit to , the Government table amendment to introduce a new failure to prevent offence , which will drive cultural change towards improve fraud prevention in organisation and , fail that , hold organisation to account with prosecution if they profit from fraudulent action . I thank the Minister for give way so soon . it be undoubtedly a positive thing that failure to prevent , or at least part of it , have now be include in the Bill , but do he have any sympathy for those warning that because this measure be target the large firm , the small boutique firm — the one - man band that be very aware of what they be do and know how to get around the system — will still be allow to freely operate ? would he consider support the Lords amendment that would close that particular loophole ? I will speak in detail to the various amendment , include the non - Government amendment , one of which be on the threshold that the hon . Lady refer to . if I may , I will defer address that until later in my remark . the Government have also introduce reform to the identification doctrine for economic crime to make it easy to prosecute corporation in their own right for these offence . the House will know that this be the large and most meaningful change to corporate criminal liability in decade . it will have a transformative effect on our ability to hold corporate to account for the action of criminal individual . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) for all their work and engagement to further the cause for the reform of corporate criminal liability . we have also make amendment to tackle strategic lawsuit against public participation , know as slapp , that feature economic crime . we believe that this be the first national legislation in the world to combat slapp . the new clause will enable an appropriate , fair and effective early dismissal procedure against slapp case . I very much thank the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) for his work in this area . member will also be pleased to hear that the Government have table amendment to improve the new statutory objective for the registrar of company , and I hope my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) and the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) in particular will welcome these improvement , give their previous amendment . we also recognise the point make by several member of this House , as well as in the other place , about the role of authorised corporate service provider in the identification process , and we have tighten the framework . our amendment will improve the transparency of acsp , include by require verification statement make by acsp when they carry out ID verification on behalf of an individual to be make publicly available on the register . furthermore , we have table a number of important amendment to strengthen and increase the transparency of the register of overseas entity , which I trust the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) and the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) will welcome , give the amendment they propose in Committee . I must pay tribute to my ministerial colleague Lord Sharpe of Epsom , Lord Johnson of Lainston and Lord Bellamy for all the work they have do to get this important Bill to where it be now . may I thank the Minister ? he always bring his point of view to the Chamber with clarity and helpfulness , and that be appreciate by everyone , include I . we as a party be of a mind to support the Government on this Bill tonight . I want to ask a question that be probably very specific . it relate to Northern Ireland , where criminal gang — that be what they be ; they masquerade as paramilitary , but they be criminal gang — delve into business and economic crime . I be seek assurance from the Minister — I think he probably will respond positively , but at the same time I seek to get his response on the record . will this Bill ensure that criminal gang that use illicit money and launder money from across the whole of Europe and far afield will be accountable , by ensure that we can catch they , detain they and put they in jail ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work and his intervention . it be clear that fraud and money laundering be already criminal act ; what the Bill principally do be help to prevent fraud by require organisation to make sure that fraud be not happen within they in the first place . I think he have speak to that in the past , as have I as a Back Bencher . I fully support it as the Minister concern , and I absolutely believe that the Bill will have a major impact in clamp down on economic crime . we must do more to tackle crime , but we must also ensure that the UK remain a great place to start and grow a business . as such , the Government strongly oppose put additional burden on legitimate business , unless there be a clear rationale for do so . any amendment make to strengthen the Bill have be carefully weigh up , and the Government be confident that we have strike the right balance in tackle economic crime and preserve the UK ' s welcome business environment . I know that my hon . friend will come on to make point about failure to prevent offence in relation to burden on small business . may I tell he first that I welcome wholeheartedly the arrival of failure to prevent offence ? like my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , I have argue for that when I be Attorney General and since , and I be glad to see it . in relation to failure to prevent and Lords amendment 151 in particular , the Minister will wish to argue that he be seek to prevent excessive burden on small organisation by limit that offence to large organisation , but can he explain why subsection ( 4 ) of the new clause introduce by Lords amendment 151 do not do that job ? it state : " it be a defence for the relevant body to prove that , at the time the fraud offence be commit … the body have in place such prevention procedure as it be reasonable in all the circumstance to expect the body to have " . why would one of those circumstance not be the size and capacity of the organisation in question ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his point and his work in this area . I will come on to that amendment , if I may , later in my remark . he make a valid point , and we want to ensure there be no loophole while at the same time maintain the position that the Bill do not put new burden on business that be not likely to have a systemic effect on economic crime . I interrupt my hon . friend to pick up the intervention he receive from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . I warn those on the Front Bench about what he just say . leave the burden on business to the court or whichever procedure to define be not a reasonable protection for small business . they need the protection that the Minister outline , because in such circumstance people will go to the most conservative position they can . although my right hon . and learn Friend suggest that that would provide significant and effective protection , it will not do so in practice as behaviour will change and burden will increase . I think the Minister be get the right balance on this . my hon . friend make the other point , and these measure be about the delicate balance that we want to strike , ensure that the right provision be in place to prevent fraud without put undue burden on business . I be pleased that those intervention reflect both those position so that we can see the legislation holistically rather than just through the lens of fail to prevent fraud . will the Minister give way ? if I may , I will make a little progress on that point . we believe that the six non - Government amendment for debate would pose significant and disproportionate burden on business , penalise reasonable company and businesspeople with limited evidence that the burden would be outweigh by any meaningful benefit . I will go into each amendment in detail , but I will begin by emphasise the Government ' s position . we must insist that the balance achieve in the Bill through Government amendment make in the other place be maintain . I be grateful to the Minister for say that , because it be on that point that I want he to give way . do he not think that any honest , upright business , whether large , small or micro , would aim within its own procedure to avoid fraud or money laundering ? the vast majority of the business community be honest and upstanding — that be the point . what we be try to ensure be that those business be not disproportionately affect by put in control , check and balance . I speak as a businessperson who do have to implement failure to prevent bribery and tax evasion measure in our business , and I tell the right hon . member that there be significant administrative burden around that legislation , and I believe they would be more so for fraud . I will come to that point in more detail . I turn to Lords amendment 23 . the inclusion of line 84 to 96 would require all UK company to declare whether they be hold share on behalf of or subject to the direction of another person or person as a nominee , and if so to provide detail of the person or person . fundamentally , that be not necessary . provision in the person with significant control framework , as strengthen through the Bill , already require the disclosure of a person of significant control behind a nominee on pain of criminal sanction for non - reporting . that achieve the same intent . a combination of measure already in the Bill , the material discrepancy reporting regime in the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Regulations 2022 and Companies House ' s new intelligence hub will more effectively flush out undeclared psc and deter the provision of false information . I be afraid that the propose approach be something of a blunt instrument . it would apply to all shareholder , when we should be focus on the transparency of individual exert significant influence as already provide for under the PSC framework . as such , we would risk burden million of company and their shareholder with new information requirement for no useful purpose . the proposition may sound sensible , but nominee arrangement can be complex , include have multiple layer of nominee and large number of beneficiary for entirely legitimate reason . for example , pension fund that own share in a company would be catch . list company would be particularly impact as their share be often hold by nominee arrangement for legitimate administrative reason — for example , in stock and share individual saving account , by custodian bank and by corporate sponsor nominee . list company report similar information about those own 3 % or more of their share to the Financial Conduct Authority , so the Lords amendment would partly duplicate exist arrangement . in summary , line 84 to 96 of the amendment risk disproportionate burden on legitimate actor and would most likely be ignore by illegitimate actor . those act as nominee on behalf of shady individual behind the scene be already adequately on the hook if find to have provide false information , as be the company itself . the effect of insert those line into part 8 of the Companies Act 2006 would be to cut across a tenet of UK company law : those run a company — usually the director — must know its legal owner and act in the interest of the legal owner of the company . those legal owner be record on the register of member . company shall have regard to their member record and not , for example , to anyone hold any underlying beneficial interest in their share . lord amendment 115 would introduce two new duty for overseas entity . it would first require event - drive update on beneficial ownership information and , secondly , require overseas entity to update their record no more than 14 day before the completion of a land transaction rather than the exist requirement to do so annually . although the amendment be well intentione , they would significantly increase burden on both overseas entity and third party transact with they , as well as introduce an element of risk in land transaction that the annual update prevent . as my ministerial colleague Lord Johnson of Lainston explain in the other place , in the case of an overseas entity that own large commercial premise split into unit , the amendment could result in the entity need to provide update twice a month , which be a disproportionate burden . there be a number of other technical challenge and impracticality with set such a duty on these entity . the Government be not alone in those view . the Law Society of Scotland , the Law Society of England and Wales and the British Property Federation have all express their concern . the Government therefore can not support the amendment . Lords amendment 117 would make information about trust submit to the register of overseas entity publicly available by remove it from the list of material list as unavailable for public inspection . it be important to note that the information on trust be already provide to the registrar when an overseas entity register on the register . furthermore , the registrar already disclose trust information to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , law enforcement and other person with function of a public nature if and when necessary and appropriate . this be not a loophole . in the other place and in this House , include from the right hon . member for Barking , the Government have hear and acknowledge that there be a case for broad transparency over trust arrangement beyond law enforcement agency . the Government therefore add a regulation - make power in the law to allow third - party access to trust datum in certain circumstance . that will enable individual such as civil society organisation and investigative journalist to access such information under certain circumstance . I be grateful to the Minister for his thank for the progress we have make together on slapp . because of the amendment make on slapp , we be now provide journalist and other truth - teller with important protection when it come to investigate economic crime . the Lords amendment be a complement to that . the truth be , there will never be enough enforcement resource for Companies House , HMRC and other , so we do need civil society to be able to bring the disinfectant of sunlight and undertake investigation . it be therefore vital that trust information be provide . have he see the new research publish by Arun Advani , Andy Summers and their colleague that show that the current arrangement shield something like 152 , 000 property from that transparency ? if we genuinely want to be able to investigate where thing be go wrong , where there be corruption , surely it be in the national interest for we to make that information more widely available . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I have see the report and the medium release around it and we do not accept those number or the interpretation of beneficial ownership use in draft the report . nevertheless , we share his concern and absolutely want to ensure that transparency will be great than it be today . the Government have every intention of exercise the power and intend to ensure that access can be grant in a straightforward way . information currently hold by Companies House be submit by overseas entity in the expectation that it would not be available for public inspection . make such information available for public inspection would come with a number of risk , include the possibility of legal challenge . moreover , publish the datum by default would likely have significant unintended consequence , include potentially expose information about vulnerable individual and minor . it be therefore right that the Government take the time to consult properly on this important issue to address the benefit and risk of great transparency and how this can be achieve . on transparency and trustee , the Minister say that he do not accept the estimate of 150 , 000 property that ought to be look at in more detail , as my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , say . what be the Government ' s estimate of the property that need transparency ? around 3 , 000 entity have not properly register at this point in time . enforcement action be be take on they : some 100 , 000 communication already have go out to those particular entity , and a number of fine have be issue — about half a million pound in fine so far . we do not accept those number . we be happy to have a conversation with whoever have concern about the legislation so far . we do not want legislation that can not be properly enforce and implement . it be important that we compare like - for - like to ensure this legislation be fit for purpose . I may have misheard , but I think the Minister say that enforcement activity be go on against 100 , 000 company — he will correct I when I sit down — and that there have be half a million pound - worth of fine . that would be £ 5 a company , would it not ? it would be if the hon . Gentleman ' s number be right , but that be not what I say . three thousand entity be not currently register , to our knowledge . many of those will have already cease to exist or will have dispose of the property they own . we be try to find out the exact number . that be about the enforcement action . we have have 100 , 000 communication with those 3 , 000 entity , and half a million pound of fine so far , but those fine can rise exponentially if they continue not to comply properly with the legislation . the Minister have wisely equip himself with an order - make power , which he refer to early . he tell the House that he plan to undertake a consultation . it would be of comfort to some in the House — not to all — if he could tell we when he plan to launch that consultation and , in his own mind , when he would like the consultation to be implement through the power with which he have equip himself . we intend to launch the consultation by the end of the year , and we would like the regulation in place as soon as possible . it be quite clear that we want to do that . we all agree on the transparency — I agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s point that sunlight be the good disinfectant . I be absolutely keen to do it , but we must make sure we do it right . we do not want any unintended consequence . it be right that we consult widely with the different sector to make sure that this legislation — and the regulation , when they come — be fit for purpose . when my hon . friend do his consultation , will he reassure those of we who be anxious to maintain the distinction between significant control and general beneficiary ? if he be go to try — rightly — to protect minor for example , who he mention in his early remark , will he focus on people who may be misuse trust because they have control of they ? that might be trustee — in some case it could be beneficiary if they have effective control of the trustee as well , but in many other case it will not . will he try to make sure that he make that distinction ? it be absolutely essential and read directly across from the person of significant control legislation that we have elsewhere in disclose information about shareholding as well . I thank my hon . friend for all his work in this area . he make the point very well . we need to ensure that when we bring forward these measure , they be properly consider and do not result in unintended consequence . he may want to raise those point as part of that consultation when we launch it . the Government firmly believe that their own amendment and their commitment to consult well achieve the aim of improve trust ' transparency , as intend by Lords amendment 117 , while ensure that we have time to analyse and stress test the risk in great depth , include legal risk . we therefore do not support the amendment . Lords amendment 151 , in effect , remove the threshold , as right hon . and hon . member have already raise , that the Government introduce as part of the failure to prevent offence , which exempt small and medium - sized entity . as I have set out , the Government be extremely mindful of the significant pressure that small company be under , and do not want to place unnecessary and duplicative burden on legitimate business . I agree that we have make huge progress on the Bill , but why be the threshold on small business not present in the failure to prevent bribery and tax evasion offence ? they be alike offence that have cause a regulatory burden to already exist . what difference will the Bill really make ? why be we not give it the full fat treatment ? I think there be a difference in the regulatory burden of failure to prevent fraud versus failure to prevent bribery and tax evasion . it be more complicated to do it , so it would have a much great impact on sme than bribery and tax evasion . it be a balance of risk and benefit when make sure where those regulatory burden sit . if the threshold be not reinserte , the new offence will apply to every single UK business and therefore increase the cumulative burden on UK business more than eightfold , from just under £ 500 million to £ 4 billion . that burden would disproportionately be share by small business owner . all member of this House will have hard - work business in their constituency , so we can not support that . it can not be take in isolation ; we must be aware of the cumulative compliance cost for sme across multiple government requirement or regulation . I hear the Minister ' s plea on behalf of sme , and I have sympathy that we do not want to overburden they with regulation , particularly small business . however , the threshold that the Government have choose to set for exclusion from the failure to prevent fraud be extremely high . if I take just one example , law firm — he will know as well as I do that lawyer be among the key enabler of many scheme that lead to both fraud and money laundering — out of the 10 , 400 law firm in the UK , only 100 will be catch by the legislation as it be currently frame . be he willing to negotiate with we on the Back Benches and member of the House of Lords to look again at the level at which he define an SME in this legislation ? the threshold be set at one of these three : 250 employee , £ 36 million turnover or £ 8 million in gross asset . we think that be the right level . we always listen to what the right hon . Lady have to say . the legal sector be cover by current money laundering regulation , as be the estate agent sector , for example . it be not right to say that they be not cover by money laundering regulation . the Minister be be characteristically generous . I , too , respect what he be try to do with the regulatory burden . I have take a business from two people and a business plan and grow it into a multi - million pound organisation , so I respect what he be try to do on regulation . however , do he not risk the growth of business with a turnover just below £ 36 million — perhaps £ 35 million — explicitly set up to be the conduit for bad behaviour ? he will remember at the public Bill evidence session that representative from the financial service community tell we about the way in which money come into a bank and be split up between several different organisation and their bank account to blur what be really go on before the money go on to be launder . be there not a risk that clever people who be corrupt will just set up a whole hive of small business with a turnover below £ 35 million , to circumvent the safeguard that we be all try to put in place ? I do not accept that . it would be extraordinary if someone set up a business just for the purpose of keep turnover below £ 36 million . besides , it be already much easy to pinpoint fraud in small organisation than large organisation . that be already the case . it be easy to take forward those kind of prosecution on that basis . my hon . friend be be very generous . I have two point on that . first , I take the point that the Government amendment have already mitigate the issue about parent company and the division into subsidiary — that be welcome . but the threshold have be take from modern day slavery legislation . what be the separate rationale for that threshold in the context of economic crime ? I have not hear any . secondly , money laundering be already a criminal offence under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , just like fraud , false accounting and theft . why on earth be we conflate the regulation that be all about neglect , which be use by the FCA admittedly on some major case , but not that often , with what be already a criminal offence ? why can we not just extend money laundering , which already be part of the regulatory burden of business in any event ? I will come to the point about money laundering and broaden the sector that money launder regulation apply to , but , on sme , in my experience , in the work I do as a Back Bencher and in the work other have do , every case of fraud or money laundering I have see have be by large company , not small company . a number of case the Serious Fraud Office have try to take forward have be against large company , which be where the failure to prevent requirement come in . it be much easy to take forward — rise — I will just finish my point . it be much easy to take that forward where the failure to prevent offence come in , of course . the act of money laundering be a criminal offence — of course it be — and the act of fraud be a criminal offence . this be about a failure to prevent those activity and impose that would , in our view , impose a significant regulatory burden on business . I be grateful . the Minister be right to cite the SFO , but he know that the threshold the SFO apply be very high . it will only prosecute high - value , complex or novel case . it do not deal with the warp and woof of fraud in this country . he be right to say that the majority of this fraud be commit by byzantine , large organisation , but I have to ask he again : what be the regulatory burden ? we know that company already have to face regulation anyway . we have failure to prevent offence . why be it — I suspect it be the hand of the Treasury , with respect to he — that the Treasury be try to hold thing back on this offence ? my right hon . and learn Friend say it be the Treasury . actually , I be responsible for the business framework and I be concern about put £ 4 billion of regulatory burden on business . that burden have be calculate in the same way that we calculate the burden for bribery , so I think it be a figure we can rely on . our natural position be that we do not regulate business that would find it more difficult to deal with that regulation . that tend to be sme . they might find it more difficult to deal with regulation , rather than large company , where it be easy to put those control in place . we have hear argument that the threshold mean 99 % of company will not be in scope , but we do not think the number of company be the right metric by which to assess the effect of the new offence . we believe economic activity be more appropriate . I can assure the House that 50 % of economic activity would be cover by the organisation in scope of this new offence with the threshold in place . it be , of course , already easy for law enforcement to prosecute fraud in small organisation that fall below the threshold . give those factor , the Government can not support the amendment . lord amendment 158 seek to introduce a failure to prevent money launder offence . the UK already have a strong anti - money laundering regime which require the regulatory sector to implement a comprehensive set of measure to prevent money laundering . corporation and individual can face serious penalty , range from fine to cancellation of registration and criminal prosecution if they fail to take those measure . the money launder regulation and the money launder offence in the Proceeds of Crime Act be directly link and can be see as part of the same regime . a failure to prevent money launder offence would be hugely duplicative of the exist regime . in our conversation with industry , it have be very clear that that duplication would create a serious level of confusion and unnecessary burden on business . we should be support legitimate business , rather than hamper they with overlap regime . the Government therefore do not support the amendment . Lords amendment 160 would prevent enforcement authority from have to pay legal cost in unsuccessful civil recovery proceeding , subject to certain intended safeguard . this type of amendment would be a significant departure from the loser pay principle and therefore not something we should rush into without careful consideration . the risk of pay substantial legal cost be just one of a multitude of factor that inform an operational decision to pursue an asset recovery case . several hon . member and noble Lords have point to the similar change make to the unexplained wealth order regime by the first economic crime Act , the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 . the key difference be that uwo be an investigatory tool that do not directly result in the permanent deprivation of asset , whereas civil recovery case cover by the amendment could do so . there could , therefore , be a host of serious unintended consequence of such a change to the wide civil recovery regime , so the Government can not support the amendment . however , we recognise the strength of feeling on the issue and the potential merit of reform . we have therefore table an amendment in lieu which impose a statutory commitment to review the payment of cost in civil recovery case in England and Wales by enforcement authority , and to publish a report on its finding before Parliament within 12 month . I hope the House be assure that the amendment the Government have lay be minor but sensible tweak to the Bill . as I have set out , the Government have listen and make substantial important amendment to the Bill throughout its passage , significantly improve and strengthen the package where we recognise improvement could be make and where it make sense for business . we must now , however , stand firm where we believe the amendment will not work or will place disproportionate burden on business . I very much hope member will support our position today and that the other place will note the Government ' s movement on cost protection and reconsider its position on the six amendment when the Bill return there . we must get on with implement the vital measure in the Bill without further delay . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on behalf of myself and my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) . I thank the Minister for his opening remark , and for the call last week with he and his official . I thank the official , pay tribute to their work on the Bill , and thank all those who have support and take part in the Bill ' s proceeding . we be in no doubt about the importance of the Bill . Britain have become a global hub for dirty money . the cost of economic crime now run to as much as £ 350 billion , equivalent to our annual health and education budget combine . economic crime hit our constituent and our business . it hurt our public finance and it damage our reputation around the world . action on economic crime be first promise in 2016 , then 2018 and 2019 . it matter because in the year from 2016 we see a significant increase in economic crime , much of which could have be prevent if the Government have act then . it take the invasion of Ukraine for the Government to step up . strengthen the law have be urgently need , which be why the Labour party have actively support the Bill ' s important passage through both Houses and seek to ensure that we leave no loophole unchecked . where the Government fail to act , we will . we recognise that the Bill have make real progress in strengthen the law to tackle economic crime and its enabler . I particularly thank my right hon . friend the Members for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , and the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax and on fair business banking for their research and relentless campaigning for change . I also thank other member who have make significant contribution to our debate , include some who be here : the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) , the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . the Bill bring significant reform of Companies House , improve the accuracy and transparency of the register , with new power for the registrar to become a more active gatekeeper over company creation . let I speak first to Government amendment which we support . I congratulate the Minister on the number of u - turn on area that Labour argue for in Committee and on Report , include on close loophole around third party enabler and introduce a failure to prevent fraud offence . we welcome Government amendment 1 , pass in the other place , which would expand the scope of objective 2 in clause 1 , require Companies House to also take into account the accuracy of information already on the register before the Bill come into effect . government amendment 35 to 50 , which all relate to the authorisation of corporate service provider , be vital amendment , especially amendment 35 , which require the registrar to publish the name of the authorise corporate service provider who have carry out ID verification . we welcome amendment 43 , which require the registrar to refuse the application for authorisation as a corporate service provider if it appear that the applicant be not a fit and proper person to become an acsp . government amendment 146 to 150 introduce further provision limit slapp that feature economic crime . I particularly thank my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill for his advocacy on this issue throughout the passage of the Bill and in Committee . slapp be a form of abusive proceeding . it be for we to send a signal and to change the law in the public interest . I would , however , ask the Minister for clarity on the Government ' s intention to cap cost via secondary legislation , set out in one of the Bill ' s factsheet . it would be helpful if he could give we an idea of when the Government be consider do that , and how quickly he expect it to happen . lord amendment 151 to 158 introduce an offence of failure to prevent fraud , which I know be a priority for the Minister as well before he take on his present role . this be a huge step forward , which also follow considerable pressure and work between the Government and both the Opposition and their own Back Benchers throughout the Bill ' s passage . the amendment take we forward , but the evidence show that we need to go far , which be why we will support Lord Garnier ' s amendment 159 . lord amendment 124 , table by the Government , deal with tackle opaque company ownership through the use of trust . while any commitment to action be welcome , we fear that the amendment simply kick the can down the road by leave access to trust information to be sort out in secondary legislation , without provide any meaningful detail or certainty as to how this will work in practice . we therefore call on the Government to support a non - Government amendment , Lords amendment 117 , for reason that I will explain later . let I now turn to the six important non - Government amendment . they include provision that improve shareholder transparency , seek to close trust loophole , expand the scope of the new " failure to prevent " offence , and extend cost cap for civil recovery case . I thank the Lords for all their extraordinary scrutiny of the Bill , particularly Lord Agnew , Lord Vaux and Lord Garnier , as well as my colleague Lord Coaker and Baroness Blake , among other . let I deal first with Lords amendment 23 , table by Lord Vaux . as he explain , one of the classic way in which to hide the real ownership of a company be through the use of undisclosed nominee arrangement , when a shareholder be name on the register but be in fact hold the share on behalf of another person . in simple term , the amendment aim to close that loophole by make it a requirement for shareholder to state , as well as their name and address , whether they be or be not act as a nominee . if they be act as a nominee , they will have to provide the name and address of the person on whose behalf they be hold the share . the Government ' s argument against the amendment be that the exist " person of significant control " declaration threshold and legislation would lead to those nominee effectively be declare . at present , while company must try to identify person with significant control , all they be really ask to do — as Lord Vaux explain — be look at the shareholder register . if there be no shareholder with 25 % or more , they can reasonably conclude that there be no person of significant control , but if there be no obligation for the person who be act as the nominee to disclose on whose behalf they own share , PSC identity can remain hidden . it be far too easy for dishonest actor to hide their identity . the company concern have the right to ask the nominee , but if the company be control by a dishonest actor , it be unlikely to do so . the amendment deal with that issue at its root , seek full transparency over owner hide behind nominee for illicit purpose , but instead of strengthen legislation here , the Government be water it down . they have table amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 23 , which would remove the requirement to declare if a person be hold share as a nominee , thus essentially remove the primary principle of the original amendment . we need Lords amendment 23 , and we will vote against amendment ( a ) . lord amendment 115 create an obligation for the register of overseas entity to be update within 14 day of an entity ' s become aware of any change , bring it into line with the " person of significant control " register . we have express concern previously about the fact that the register of overseas entity be one of the only register that be require to be update annually , rather than when a change occur . this mean that , at good , the register be provide only a snapshot of land ownership by overseas entity . we support the sentiment behind Lords amendment 115 . twelve month be certainly too long , and there be a significant risk that if the legislation go through in its current form , overseas entity may be able to make change within the 12 - month period but change they back before their annual reporting requirement in order to evade transparency . there have be no solution to that loophole , but we need one . that solution , and a more appropriate threshold , need to be address , and with an evidence base . I do note the concern express by the Law Society and other about the current amendment . we will not be vote on Lords amendment 115 , but we believe that the Government must look again at institute a period inform by datum and analysis which will close this evident loophole . lord amendment 117 be table by Lord Agnew — who , I remind the House , resign from his role in Government tackle fraud because of the Government ' s " lamentable track record " in this area . we must be drive by the principle of maximum possible transparency . the amendment would require Companies House to publish information about trust control offshore company hold land in the UK , which be vital for transparency of land ownership . this amendment be much strong than Government Lords amendment 124 , which kick the can down the road when it come to act on trust by prompt yet another consultation . new research publish by a group of academic from the London School of Economics and Warwick University on the register of overseas entity have find that the true owner of more than 100 , 000 property in England and Wales control via overseas shell company be not public , despite the rule that come into force on 31 January . analysis of the register by Transparency International show that trust be use to hide the ownership of about 7 , 000 entity , which be about a quarter of those on the register . trust be also notorious for their use in sanction evasion , a case in point be last year ' s story of Alisher Usmanov ' s allegedly use trust to obscure the beneficiary of his £ 170 million UK property portfolio . I have hear some of the Government ' s argument in the Minister ' s speech , but it still seem to I that on the issue of trust we be drag our foot when the time to act be now , and we will therefore oppose the Government ' s motion to disagree with Lords amendment 117 . the Government have table amendment ( a ) to the new clause entitle " failure to prevent fraud " in Lord Garnier ' s amendment 151 . as we have say , we welcome the step take by the Government on failure to prevent fraud , but there be two problem with the current offence , about which the Minister have already hear during the debate : first , it apply only to large organisation as define in the Companies Act 2006 , and secondly , it do not cover money laundering . government amendment 151 , which introduce a failure to prevent fraud offence , be amend in the other place to remove the plan exemption for all organisation that do not qualify as " ' large organisation " . if it be leave as it be , the introduction of a " failure to prevent fraud " offence will apply to just 0 . 5 % of all business in the UK . as Lord Gamier point out so aptly in the other place , with 99 . 5 % of business be exempt , that would be the equivalent of only prosecute murderer over the height of 6 foot 6 inch . the hon . Lady be make some excellent point on her side of the argument , but I think that the 0 . 5 % figure miss the fact that that probably cover a substantially large proportion of economic activity in the country . what intrigue I be this . there be a balance to be strike here . I think the hon . Lady will go on to ask the Government not to press their amendment , or to else to oppose Lords amendment 159 ; but what , in practice , will this mean for small business if they be to be hold to the responsibility to prevent fraud ? be it a certificate on the wall ? be it an annual process that they will need to go through ? how much be it go to cost ? ultimately , who will give a guarantee to all the small business owner around the country who be worried about this new responsibility ? how will they know that they have take the action under prevention procedure to ensure that they will not be subject to legal prosecution ? I think that that will be cover in the point I be go to make , include around the step that the Government need to take far . on that point , there be discussion in the Bill about reasonable arrangement , which will be decide through secondary legislation . it will be necessary to ensure that the process through which small and medium - sized enterprise show that they be prevent fraud and money laundering can be do in a way that be not burdensome on those business or a detriment to they . the same argument take place over the bribery legislation , when there be concern about an attempt to have an SME exemption . that fail at that point , and all the research since that legislation be enact show there have be no detriment to sme or to their ability to export . I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention . indeed , she pre - empt some of the content of my speech , which be absolutely fine — we can reference it twice . she make an important point about the Bribery Act 2010 , which have also be refer to by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon . the important point here be that it be for the Government to get this right , and I think we can all agree that there should not be disproportionate cost for small business . Lord Vaux , an experienced professional in these area , also express concern over the credibility of the Government ' s figure on the estimate cost for small business . another important argument be that these policy can also protect sme , which be also the victim of fraud . we can sometimes lose sight of that . in 2022 , 64 % of UK business experience fraud , corruption or other economic crime . that be much high than the global average of 46 % , and second only to South Africa . this be a matter of a cost to business as much as a cost for business , and what the extent of that would be in reality . we have also look at the safeguard — particularly since my conversation with the Minister last week — that be in place to avoid disproportionate cost for sme , which the Government can use to get the balance right . spotlight on Corruption have note : " it be open to the government to make clear in guidance issue for the offence what reasonable procedure would be proportionate for sme , and in what circumstance it would be reasonable not to have they at all . " the offence also contain a defence for company to be able to argue , in the event of legal action , that its procedure be reasonable in all the circumstance or that it be not reasonable to expect the body to have any prevention procedure in place . that be important for inform the debate today and it be the reason that , after deliberation and listen to the Minister last week , we have decide that we should support the debate in the Lords and that we do not want to see the exemption for sme take out of the Bill . amendment 159 , on failure to prevent money laundering , be table by the noble Lord Garnier . it would expand the scope of the Government ' s new offence of failure to prevent fraud so that the offence would also cover money laundering . the Government argue that this amendment be not need as we already have an anti - money launder supervisory regime , but I remind the Minister that a Treasury review into our anti - money laundering regulation publish in June state that " significant weakness remain in the UK ' s supervision regime . " hugely frustratingly , the Government have respond to that with yet another consultation . in addition , since the most recent money laundering regulation be bring in , the UK have have only one corporate criminal conviction for money laundering , so it be pretty clear that the exist safeguard against money laundering be not enough . here be a chance to take strong action and to include in the new offence a failure to prevent money laundering , and the Government should take it . we will be support this amendment to stay part of the Bill . Lords Amendment 161 be table in the other place by the noble Lord Agnew . crucially , it would extend the cost cap for civil recovery case beyond the cap introduce for unexplained wealth order in the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 . let I quote Lord Agnew : " we have a complete mishmash on the principle of cost capping at the moment . for example , case take in the magistrate ' court have cost capping , as do case take by the SRA . however , we do not have cost capping for the most important of all : those large case where the enforcement agency be try to take on big - time oligarchs . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 27 June 2023 ; Vol . 831 , c . 674 . ] this Lords amendment would significantly aid the fight against economic crime in our country . currently the balance be tip in favour of the criminal and the kleptocrat and away from the prosecutor and their agency who want to pursue these case but can not afford to do so . it be also strongly support by Bill Browder . the reality be that far too often the other side can afford any cost to support their case . the Government have table a motion to disagree with Lords amendment 161 and have offer a counter - amendment ( a ) , which would oblige the Secretary of State to report on potential policy to extend cost cap , but this be a serious issue to address now . I see no reasonable explanation as to why the Government would continue to oppose the inclusion of this amendment in the Bill and the strong backing it would give to the enforcement agency , which we would expect to act with a strong threshold of evidence in order to bring any case — a point that I hope will address any other concern the Minister have . to conclude , this Bill be welcome but long overdue , and loophole remain . Labour have lay out our argument in support of the Lords amendment . they have be pass with cross - party support and in good faith , and they will clearly make the Bill strong . the Government must seize the opportunity of this Bill to drive forward the transparency that we need and to help our law enforcement body to act . these be the choice the Government must make , and I urge they to reconsider the much - need amendment from the other place today . this business be protect for up to three hour and I be expect multiple vote at the end of the debate , which could go on until 9 . 50 pm . the vote would not eat into the next business , which could go on for two hour . I hope that member will therefore reflect on whether their speech could be brief than they have perhaps anticipate , as that would be helpful to everyone concern , include the staff of the House . it be a pleasure to rise in support of Lords amendment 146 and 147 , which introduce the power to strike out slapp claim in relation to instance of economic crime . slapp — strategic litigation against public participation claim — be describe as " legal action typically bring … with the intention of harass , intimidate and financially or psychologically exhausting opponent via improper use of the legal system . " in essence , people who have such a claim bring against they be threaten into silence . they be a tool of intimidation and censorship , often use by wealthy individual such as russian oligarch or by corporation against individual such as journalist who rarely have the financial mean to fight back . slapp be not bring with the intention of participant have their day in court ; they be base on the power of inequality of arm and be intend to stifle free speech , with the allegation never see the light of day . for the purpose of this Bill , slapp claim be define as one where the claimant ' s behaviour in relation to the matter concern have or intend to have the effect of restrain the defendant ' s freedom of speech , and that any disclosure they seek to restrain have to do with economic crime or would be make in the public interest to fight economic crime . these amendment seek to give people more protection when face a slapp claim in relation to economic crime only . they will be able to use a new early dismissal mechanism and , where a case do proceed , they will have the umbrella of a new cost protection regime . this matter because cost can be prohibitive when fight legal case , and indeed the financial risk be intend to deter people from fight back . however , we can not let people who seek to silence and intimidate win . we should be concern that , in 2022 , the coalition against slapp in Europe find that the UK be the top european destination for cross - border litigation , with 15 of 62 know transnational case over a decade be file here . who know , there may be more . one of the reason we be in this position be that the UK have no anti - slapp legislation , and I therefore welcome the measure that be be introduce here . although the Bill concentrate on economic crime only , I encourage Ministers to make it the first step in bring a stop to slapp altogether . slapp be not just a threat to freedom of speech and freedom of expression , they seek to stop so many other disclosure that be in the public interest . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for whistleblowing , I be committed to protect and empower people who speak out . I have be push for legislative change to ensure that people feel able , safe and support to make disclosure that be in the public interest . whistleblower , as my hon . friend the Minister know , be pivotal in the fight against economic crime and fraud , with almost half of all fraud detect by whistleblower . because economic crime be often well hidden and difficult to trace , discover it require insider to speak out and share their knowledge . take , for example , the £ 178 billion Danske Bank money laundering scheme , which be expose only as a result of a whistleblower who have work in the bank ' s trading unit and who raise concern about breach of anti - money laundering procedure in its estonian branch . his internal report ignore , he turn to the US Securities and Exchange Commission . once allegation make the news headline , Danske Bank itself order an investigation that confirm the whistleblower ' s claim . although a worker may seek protection at an employment tribunal , journalist , who be often the target of slapp , be not recognise as whistleblower under UK law , and they be therefore afford no protection . yet due to the investigative nature of their work , they be among the most likely to acquire inside information and evidence of wrongdoing . at the moment our whistleblowing legislation , the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 , apply only to worker and be mean to protect they from unfair dismissal or detriment at work that may result from their whistleblowing . whistleblower such as journalist , who fall outside our current law and be prey to slapp , will find support with these amendment where their disclosure relate to economic crime . I completely agree with everything the hon . Lady have say about slapp and the importance of journalist effectively act as an additional regulator , but they need the information . do she also support the amendment that would ensure trust can not be a mean of hiding information from journalist and other who might want to be able to reveal it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for bring that point forward . as we know , this be about investigative journalist who want to get in there and get the information . transparency be in the name of the Bill , which may answer his question . the Government be insist that we should keep the real ownership of trust secret , and the problem journalist have be that there be not a proper exemption to enable they to find out the ownership that lie behind a trust . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that clarification . the important thing be that journalist do not find themselves call before the court through slapp and this type of litigation , and that be the point we be try to make here . I be sure the Minister have hear the hon . Gentleman . as have be say , slapp be use to silence and cover up . to effectively root out economic crime , it be right that we address their use , but I think the Government can go far still by reform the UK ' s whistleblowe law . in do so , we could encourage more people to come forward with evidence of economic crime , secure in the knowledge that the system be on their side . we must have a system that recognise any person as a potential whistleblower , not just an employee , as our current legislation do . we must have a system that value whistleblower , not one that ignore or punish they . we must have a system that make whistleblower feel support and value . I know the Government be currently review the UK ' s whistleblowe framework , and I will continue to push for the reform we need . meanwhile , these amendment be an important step forward , and I be pleased to support they . I welcome the move the Government have make on this Bill . it be important that they have do so , but they could still go much far . I pay tribute to the work of the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) on the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , and to the organisation in this sector that do so much to bring light to what can be a very complex and detailed issue . the Minister talk about the UK have a reputation for allow legitimate business to thrive , but we be here this evening to challenge the other reputation that have build up over the year . the UK have now become a hub for dirty money , which be funnel through the UK ' s financial system by an army of enabler . this Bill be an opportunity to dam that flow and to stop this dirty money , but as the excellent " catch I if you can : gap in the Register of Overseas Entities " report , publish by the London School of Economics and CAGE Warwick , say , " there be no point build a dam halfway across a river . " without close the loophole and the gap , that be what this Government be do . the Minister have promise consultation and further thing to come in the future . it be fine to dangle these thing before we , but we all know that we be head towards an election and the Government can not promise to deliver on any of the consultation he hope to bring forward . whatever happen , there will be an election . this House be almost out of time , and we should take the opportunity tonight to do this Bill right . I will run through the Lords amendment , give the time constraint you mention , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Lords amendment on nominee shareholder be table by Lord Vaux , and as other member have say , there be an awful lot more we could do on that . it be not enough for the Government just to say , as they do in their letter to member , that such a measure would most likely be ignore by illegitimate actor and would be difficult to enforce . that be not much of a reason not to legislate and not to try . there be a real issue with how complex structure have be bring about , and the Government need to grab hold of it . this Bill be an opportunity to close a loophole before it be far exploit . enforcement be a big part of this , and the Government do not enforce the current rule . say a measure would be difficult to enforce when they be not enforce the rule to begin with do not give we great confidence . between 2012 and 2022 only three fine be issue for false filing to Companies House . as of October 2022 , only one fine of £ 210 have be issue for not file the person with significant control of a Scottish limited partnership . if the government do not enforce the rule they have bring forward , they can not really ask for more rule . they need to get real about enforcement . they need to make sure the law we pass this evening be effective . update to the register of overseas entity be a significant gap in the system . as other have say , update can take almost an entire year , in which time other thing could happen . event - drive update would hold company to account . if we think about it , there will be paperwork when company make any change , so they might as well do the update at the same time . that would be logical . lord amendment 117 in the name of Lord Agnew , on the transparency of trust datum on the register of overseas entity , make a critical point . we must deal with trust without further delay , without further consultation and without kick the can further down the road . here be the opportunity to do that . as Transparency International and the BBC show in February , trust be be use to hide the ownership of thousand of overseas entity under the current regime . they estimate that more than 7 , 000 overseas entity on the register , about a quarter of the total , be hide the ownership of roughly 20 , 000 property . why would the Minister not want to close that loophole ? why would he not want to improve this system right now ? it be not as though the Government be not warn on this . they be talk about consult and do more on it , but they be warn about this when we have the Joint Select Committee on the draft Registration of Overseas Entities Bill . in March 2019 , Professor Jonathan Fisher KC say : " if I be ask to advise , on the face of the draft legislation , the first thing I would say be , ' have you think about set up a trust ? ' " . he go on to say : " I might say to someone , ' if you really want to do this Technicolor , why don ' t you have an offshore company and have the share of the company put in trust , and when you set that trust up , why don ' t you think about set it up as a discretionary trust ? " if it be a discretionary trust , the beneficiary do not rank as a beneficiary in law ; all they have in law be the right to be consider by the trustee when capital income be distribute . " so all kind of thing be already identify and very clear to the Government , have be highlight in evidence , and they could have put these piece of evidence into this Bill to make sure that we be close the loophole now , rather than allow this to spiral yet far . it be also very evident that this database need to be accessible to the wide possible group of people , because the law enforcement , particularly under this government , do not have the money , expertise or time to go into this in significant detail . let I highlight some of the scale of the issue . we owe a great debt of gratitude to Graham Barrow , as a researcher into these thing , in his own time , as a Companies House geek . he say that the use of brass plaque address for company incorporation have increase since lockdown . he have do an analysis of two main address be use . in Shelton Street , between 2018 and 2022 , the number of incorporation at the one brass plaque address grow by 340 % , from 6 , 200 to 27 , 350 . similarly , the incorporation in Wenlock Road also grow significantly , by 40 % . those be just two address , and the number be increasingly significantly . that be due to the loophole that the Government have allow and the corporate structure that currently exist . we seek further amendment to tighten this and prevent these brass plaque address from be use for hundred and thousand of company . there be certainly more the Government could be do to ensure that trust do not fall down on this point ; allow people to register trust in a similar way will result in the same issue . be the point not that in the 400 page of legislation we have before we we be do exactly that : close these loophole , make it easy for business and make it easy for Companies House to make sure that these entry be valid ? we be also committed to increase the fee at Companies House to make sure that the proper resource be in place for it . indeed , we have increase the resource for enforcement at the National Crime Agency by 40 % since 2019 , with this now stand at just below £ 800 million a year . I thank the Minister for that point , but the number of incorporation be massive and the resource to Companies House be not keep pace to check on each and every company that be go . I direct he to the tweet from Graham Barrow highlight some of these issue , because there be so many company and we need as many eye as possible on this datum . company House do not have the resource to do this and neither do law enforcement . allow those researcher who have the time , expertise and patience to tease out this datum to do this and do it well be important . they must be allow to do this . let I turn to the amendment on failure to prevent fraud , from Lord Garnier . I recall the Minister be keen on such an amendment beforehand and there be an awful lot more the Government could be do on this . as other member have say , if this can be do for bribery and tax evasion , there be no reason why do it for fraud should present an additional burden . as the Minister himself point out , 99 % of business be not in scope under what be be propose here — again , that be ludicrous . there be also an effect on small and medium - sized business to consider , because they also stand to lose money through fraud . they stand to be target by those who want to commit this fraud . so those business that be perhaps more exposed — those local business that do not have the power to stand up to those who would bully they to engage in such activity — be put at risk and should be well protect by this legislation , be they to be keep in line with it . the hon . Lady have make a point , which the shadow spokesperson also make , about harm be do to small business by business that be commit fraud against they . but there be already a law against commit fraud , so why do the additional law about not take any action to prevent fraud help in those circumstance ? because such a law have help in the case of the Health and Safety Executive . the Minister use to talk about how when the health and safety legislation come in , the number of death at work drop dramatically , because the measure be a preventive one , whereby one have to prevent people from be injure and kill at work . this work the same way for bribery and tax evasion , so why would it not also work for fraud ? rise — I will not give way , as I be conscious of the amount of time for this debate . as I be say , it be important that we recognise the significance of this to small business — this be there to help they , not hinder they . I move on to the cost protection for civil recovery case . again , this be incredibly important , because the balance we have be not right . those who can pay — the enabler , the lawyer , the sharp accountant — have a huge advantage over law enforcement agency , which do not have significant resource and expertise to do this . as Bill Browder say when he give evidence to the Bill Committee in October 2022 : " what have to happen here — this be plain as day — be that you have to get rid of this adverse cost issue in a civil case bring by the Government … if you make that point , it will change the whole dynamic — the whole risk - reward — for these people . " – – [ Official Report , Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Public Bill Committee , 25 October 2022 ; c . 66 , Q140 . ] on adverse cost , the Government be say that they be sympathetic to this , and they be go to consult and do some other thing later on , but by not put this measure in this Bill , they be allow this uneven playing field to continue and be perpetuate . because the law enforcement agency know that it be go to cost they an absolute fortune , which they do not have , these case go unpunished and those who perpetrate all of this money laundering , with all this money wash through the UK financial system , will see this continue , because people can afford to get away with it . the Government should be deeply concerned about that . let I recommend to the Minister Bill Browder ' s late book — if he have not already read it . it expose the capture of all of these enabler , from lawyer to everybody else ; we need to be look to close the door on that in this Bill . the Government have an important opportunity here . this important situation do not come along very often and we do not know when we will pass this way again . we have a Bill in front of we . the Government could go for accuracy and for transparency in the register . they could close the door , fix the loophole and do all of these thing that they must do . they could accept these Lords amendment tonight . they could fix this Bill and do it right , and we would not have to come back here to legislate again . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) . she say that we might not pass this way again . indeed , this have be a very long way for I and for many other in this House who have be make the case for a failure to prevent offence for many year , both in office and as Back Benchers . I be delighted that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) be in his place , because he be a true believer as well . I hope that tonight could have be a Simeon moment — I could have sing my Nunc Dimittis and depart in peace — but no , I be afraid that , as a result of the welcome but somewhat limited amendment make by the Government in the Lords , I be reduce to the role of Moses ; I can see the promise land but I be not , it seem , accord to the Government , destine to get there . therefore my exhortation to my good friend the Minister be , " you can be Joshua . you can knock the wall of Jericho down . you can go the extra mile and finish the job . " we have hear a lot about this failure to prevent offence , and the word " fraud " have be bandy about as if we be deal with fraud in general . may I , perhaps uncharacteristically for some hon . member , draw the attention of the House to the Lords amendment themselves , because they be what we be consider ? I , like you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be a stickler for ensure that we stick to the point , so I turn to page 46 of the bundle and , in particular , amendment 151 , which be the propose new clause " failure to prevent fraud " . it ain ' t any old fraud ; it be fraud intend to benefit " the relevant body " . that be not a fraud in general , about loss to the taxpayer or the company — in fact , there be a specific defence on that basis that say if the fraud cause loss to the company , it be not a criminal offence — but a very target type of fraud that be about benefit to the company . as a lawyer , Madam Deputy Speaker , you know that we have something call the criminal standard of proof . this be not any old regulatory device ; this be a criminal offence . the threshold and standard that have to be apply by the police , the investigate authority and the prosecutor be high . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say , the defence set out in clause 4 , about reasonable prevention proceeding , be crucial . when I hear people talk about regulatory burden , I have to say , in all candour , that that be a misplaced understanding of what this rather limited offence will achieve . rise — I will give way to my hon . friend and then explain why he be wrong . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend . he seem to have some mixed view on the point of regulatory burden , particularly on this measure . he make the point about fraud be a crime , but this legislation be about action to prevent fraud , as he know . what do I tell the good , upstande owner and manager of small business in my constituency that they be do wrong about fraud today ? how be they let he down because they be not take the action to prevent fraud that he think they should be take ? tell they that this offence be about fraud intend to benefit themselves , not about a fraud that cause they loss . this be a limited offence . it be the misunderstanding of the term " fraud " in the clause that be so important to the debate ; we have to focus , laser - like , on that . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) be well experienced in business , over many year in financial service , and I bow to the expertise and experience that he have bring to the House , and indeed to ministerial office — all too briefly , which be a shame . he will understand the law of corporate liability in the United States — a vigorous free market economy , the big economy in the world , where people go to invest and grow business . I can tell he that corporate criminal liability in the United States be pretty draconian , because company there be liable , even if their employee go off on a frolic of their own and defraud to their heart ' content , yet corporate criminal liability there will bite upon United States entity . that be far more draconian that anything we have in this jurisdiction and far more onerous , potentially , when it come to regulatory burden , yet my hon . friend can not argue with I that the United States be anything other than a vigorous free market economy . I do not want to argue about that point , but the United States be also an incredibly litigious society . the main beneficiary of much of this be the legal community , with which my right hon . and learn Friend will be particularly familiar . as a result of the clause apply to small business in my constituency , can he tell I specifically what they will need to do differently that they do not do today ? they will have in place reasonable procedure to prevent people from act on their behalf and unjustly benefit their own company and entity . let we not forget it be a partnership offence as well . I do not see that as some sort of general exhortation to small and medium - sized business to suddenly put in place measure to prevent fraud in general — that be not what the offence say . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that part of the answer to the point make by our hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) be that the vast majority of business will not need to do anything differently , because what they do now be perfectly reasonable . if what they be do be reasonable , they will be perfectly safe from this legislation . this legislation be intend to catch those who do not behave reasonably and those who behave dishonestly , which will be a tiny minority . we accept that the legislation will not lead to a huge number of prosecution or conviction ; it be suppose to lead to a change in behaviour where that be need . exactly , and that be the point . what the Government have do be set up a legislative Aunt Sally . I welcome their putting in place mitigate measure to deal with parent company and subsidiary — Lord Bellamy explain that very well indeed — but the threshold they have set be entirely unnecessary . it do not reflect what the Law Commission say in its report . when I be in office , I be delighted to ask the Law Commission to do the work on failure to prevent fraud . it do the work and , hey presto , it produce proposal that have nothing about threshold in they , so where on earth have that come from ? I be sorry if I might have inadvertently upset my hon . friend the Minister by mention his Majesty ' s Treasury , but I detect the hand of my friend in Parliament Street . I know their view about failure to prevent fraud ; they do not like the offence and never have do . they have always put up argument against it . perhaps it be their role to do that — I do not know — but I detect their hand in this . that be an unfortunate coda to what would have be a magnificent symphony , have my hon . friend the Minister stick to the line and do what I think he be go to do . to return to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire , I agree that the United States be a litigious society . we , in the United Kingdom , do not necessarily want to go down that road when it come to civil litigation , but what the United States do well be prosecution of fraud . it regularly and rigorously enforce the criminal law of fraud , particularly in the jurisdiction of New York and in other major financial centre , which enhance the reputation of that jurisdiction as a safe place to do business . here be the argument that you , Mr Deputy Speaker , do not hear , in contradistinction to the argument about the regulatory burden . where there be a criminal legal framework that be clear , certain and stable , that can only encourage investment into the United Kingdom , not discourage it . a jurisdiction with a robust and independent judiciary and a fine legal tradition , which rigorously police the law of corporate criminal liability , be one that investor can have the great confidence about invest in . what on earth be happen here to undermine that very powerful argument ? prosecutor , include the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office , have make the case consistently that a " failure to prevent " offence of this nature would help they in the important work they do in bring wrongdoer to book . we do not want to be a jurisdiction where it be too easy to commit fraud that benefit corporate . we do not want to be that sort of place — that be not a healthy place within which we should be operate . if we be truly committed to a vigorous free market economy , then , in the tradition of Adam Smith , we should be absolutely committed to its policing and its boundary . I sound a bit evangelical about this — a bit biblical , a bit Old Testament — because it be important that we get this right at this last stage of the Bill . that bring I to my noble friend Lord Garnier ' s amendment about money laundering . he make the argument very well and , have read his entry in Lords Hansard , I will adopt it . I be in danger of sound like a broken record , but I make no apology for that . money laundering be already a criminal offence . the regulatory argument do not cover the full gamut of what we be deal with , and Lord Garnier ' s amendment be a sensible reflection of the importance of ensure we cover offence of money laundering . remember again that this be about benefit the company ; it be not money laundering in general , but a targeted offence , with the same caveat and qualification that I mention in the context of the " fail to prevent fraud " offence . so I say to my hon . friend , " repent ! " . he should follow the true path and come back and finish the job . we can all then take equal pride in the work that he and other have do to make sure that this jurisdiction be a fair and well place in which to do business . let I end on this note . I will not dwell too much on the rather milquetoast amendment about the capping of cost order for proceeding for civil recovery . we know that it be a problem . we know that it be a disincentive to the bringing of civil proceeding under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 . we should just get on with it . the particular rule and proposal about cost be well reflect in other part of legal procedure and other type of proceeding , so this be nothing new . I think that it be time that we grasp the nettle rather than have yet another report . finally , Lord Agnew make a very powerful point : just a few word be all it take to make a difference when it come to trust and the argument that have be very cogently make about that by other . only a few small step need to be take by my hon . friend and his Majesty ' s Government to allow we to reach that promise land . I urge he to take we there and then we can all celebrate in a land of milk and honey . I shall start where that brilliant speech by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) end . I would also say to the Minister , and also to the Minister for Security , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) be he still in his place , that they have show from their time as Back Benchers a real understanding of all the issue around economic crime . they know what need to be do . they help to develop the agenda that would work through smart regulation , transparency , tough enforcement and proper accountability . when the Bill arrive in the House , it be , I hope the Minister will agree , a bit half - baked . I be not blame the civil servant in the box , but it be a bit half - baked . it be full of loophole and serious omission . but in this year that we have be consider the legislation , it have go through tremendous transformation , so I salute the Minister for what he have do , but urge he to go that step far . I thank the Labour Front - Bench team for their assiduous and detailed work on this , but I particularly salute the Back Benchers — back Benchers from all part of this House who have join together to bring forward a set of pragmatic , practical amendment that really will make this Bill fit for purpose . I also thank those in the House of Lords who have work across party , with the Cross Benchers , to ensure that we have some serious amendment that will give we a good framework to start the eradication of the malignant infection that we have with dirty money . I say to the Minister : do not undo that good work ; do not emasculate what have happen and where we have get to ; and do not give into the voice of enabler who want to make a fortune on the back of dirty money . I wonder , as the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon have wonder , why on earth be the Minister not listen to what we be say . everybody in Parliament want this . everybody in the country want this . nobody support dirty money . as I have say time and again , the country will not sustain economic prosperity and wealth on the back of dirty money . there be no future in that . I give the Minister another commitment , which I really regret have to say . I will not be here , but I want a future Labour Government to commit to never have a system that allow any political party to exist on the back of donation of dirty money . I say : do not let this opportunity go . do not betray the principle and do not cave into the lobbying . the Government should look at the excellent amendment and please go forward . I wish to focus on some new point . Lord Agnew ' s excellent amendment in relation to trust need to be consider . the Minister say that he do not accept the research that be publish today by really respect academic . these be people I have work with over the year in whose work I have total and utter confidence . I challenge the Minister to bring they in and talk to they and then see if he come to the view that what they be say be not true . what they be say be that we do not know the beneficial owner of 70 % of the property identify as own by an overseas entity . and we do not know the beneficial owner of two third of that 70 % because there be a trust that hide the real beneficial ownership . the Minister should have regard to what they say , as they be distinguish . I urge he to talk to they . I be happy to join in a meeting with they . in 87 % of case where information be either miss or inaccessible , it be because of Government choice in the design of the scheme . it be not because people be not obey the law . it be because the Government have choose to design the scheme in that way . rise — I be conscious of time , but I will give way to the Minister . when the LSE look at beneficial ownership , I think that it include tenant of property rather than the ownership of property , and the register of overseas entity only deal with the ownership of those property . there be definitely some disconnect between the Government ' s position on this and the legislation and the interpretation that have be take with this research from LSE . I have meet the key academic involve in this on a number of occasion , and I urge the Minister to do so as well . I think the difference be between the entity and the property . we start ask for a register of property that be own by overseas entity in 2012 , 2014 and 2016 . it be absolutely age ago . it be when David Cameron be Prime Minister . it be finally enact last year , but it have be enact badly . I have to say that it be the secrecy that matter . we can have transparency and we can protect vulnerable people . transparency will enable all eye — many , many more eye — to interrogate the datum and the Minister know that to be true . let I put in this basic point . he and I own property . we be not ashamed of show the ownership of those property . why should we reveal the ownership of the property in which we live , when rich people — often kleptocrat , often criminal , often money launderer — be able to use trust as a mechanism to hide their ownership ? that be a basic unfairness that the Minister should deal with . may I quote to he the word of one of the firm of lawyer that be exploit the loophole ? it be Payne Hicks Beach — Baroness Fiona Shackleton be a member of that firm . the firm say : " on the face of it , the lacuna would seem to defeat the purpose of the legislation " — this be lawyer say this — " so may be tighten up " — hopefully tonight — " in the future , but for the time be , use a nominee to hold UK property will continue to provide privacy as far as the ROE be concern . " lawyer be exploit that loophole , and we should stop it because — I hope that the Minster will agree with this — it be damage our sanction policy . usmanov have be able to hide a lot of his wealth in property through trust . Abramovich have do it , Fedotov have do it , and it be time that we bring it to a stop . the other key issue be the failure to prevent . I will quote to the Minister what he say time and again . this be not about additional burden on sme , or fill the court with criminal case ; this be about try to change the behaviour in our society , so that prevent fraud and money laundering become embed in our culture , in the same way that prevent bribery have become embed in business culture . the example that the Minister use when he be on the back Benches be very potent . when we use to have a lot of accident and death on construction site , we reform the health and safety at work legislation . we do not suddenly fill the court with builder and construction people be take to court , but overnight the number of accident go down by over 90 % . that be the principle that we be work on . that be the evidence that we want to use , and it be vital that we do it here . the failure to prevent clause , so ably move and work upon by Government Members , be the key clause that would really be the game - changer on the whole issue of dirty money . if we can only get that clause as agree in the House of Lords through , we would really see a difference in what be happen . take out the provision on sme and on money laundering be ridiculous . the Minister know that it be absurd . there have be one prosecution on money laundering . when the Financial Action Task Force come here in 2018 , it say that it be look at 180 high - end money laundering investigation . out of that we have have one case , so do not tell we that thing be currently work . I want to keep to time , but quickly on cost cap , crook have such deep pocket . we see that with the unexplained wealth order . it be outrageous that the people who manage to win the case in the court — although investigative journalist have subsequently suggest that they lie to the court , in effect ; that the evidence that they give be not the truth — have claim £ 1 . 5 million in cost from the National Crime Agency . the NCA ' s total budget for fight corruption be £ 4 million a year . if it lose £ 1 . 5 million on one case alone , the idea that it will have any confidence in litigate when it come across case of bad actor and malpractice be for the bird . if we do not tackle the cost - cap issue , we will never get on top of the really bad people whom we want to eliminate from our economy . this be one area where we just have to look at the Americans and the way that they pursue money launderer and fraud much more aggressively . the money that they bring back into the public coffer , which can then be spend on public service , be enormous . in 2021 , we manage to extract £ 354 million in fine ; the Americans take £ 1 . 2 billion - worth of fine — $ 1 . 5 billion - worth . our £ 354 million be 0 . 3 % of the amount that be launder there . Bill Browder , who have be a real advocate in this area , believe that this be another amendment that would change thing . on nominee , this be such a simple amendment . I can not understand the resistance to it . all it do be give we more information and enable we more readily to know who be the genuine owner of particular company . allow individual to hide behind nominee be absurd . those be the thing that really matter to I and that could make the difference and turn a Bill that be much well than it be but be still not perfect into a very powerful instrument that would allow we to go out and turn around very effectively the malignant disease that have infect the UK economy of massive money laundering , fraud and economic crime . I urge the Minister , " be bold ! you ' ve get a year leave to do it . be bold in that year . " thank you for the way that you conduct your speech . I see what you be do , and thank you very much for help . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , I seek your guidance on how I can put on the record that I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I think you have already do it — thank you very much . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill be an important Bill that have cross - party support . I do not know whether it be appropriate to say that the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) be in many way its godmother , but she be certainly one of the key driver of this important legislation . whether it be perfect in her regard or nearly perfect in her regard , I would like to put on record that for all of we her effort have be to the benefit of the country as a whole . it be with some temerity that I wish to make a few point perhaps not in accordance with some of the comment make particularly by my right hon . and learn Friends the Members for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) and for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who make the case for extend the failure to prevent fraud provision to small business . I must say that they have not convince I of the merit of their argument at this stage , and I think on balance I be with the Minister on this . I be a conservative and therefore change be perhaps always difficult for I , but I think particularly of what the implication may be for small business . I have not be persuade by the other example put forward of health and safety or bribery ; I think there will be quite a chilling effect if the responsibility for prevent fraud be extend to small business owner . I think it be appropriate and prudent that we build the measure , as the Minister have say , in his amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 151 . that be all I will say on Lords amendment 151 , however , I want to talk about another amendment that affect small business , which no other hon . Member have refer to in this debate : lord amendment 30 regard the disclosure of profit and loss account for certain company , which the Bill will require of small business and microbusinesse that have previously be exempt . it potentially cause considerable concern for owner of very small business if they be to have their profit and loss and their balance sheet publicly declare through Companies House reporting . I ask hon . member to imagine , if they will , that in a town or a community there be two or three compete laundry or plumber , all of they maybe husband and wife , father and son or whatever — concentrate on what I want to say of a small business — or just sole proprietor , compete with each other in a small market . if their profit and loss statement be to be a matter of public knowledge , that would have very serious implication for local understanding of that person ' s or that family ' s personal wealth . it would have significant implication for local competition . the provision that be in place in the Bill originally provide no protection for people in those circumstance . yes , they will still provide the information , but surely it make sense for company in those circumstance not to have all their very specific financial information in the public domain . I believe Lords amendment 30 — the Minister might refer to this if he have time — seek to provide a mechanism for a restriction on that disclosure of such personal information . the amendment lay out in propose new subsection 468A ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Companies Act 2006 that the Secretary of State " may by regulation make provision require the registrar , on application or otherwise " , and go on far to say that regulation " which provide for the making of an application may make provision " as to who may make an application , the ground on which an application can be make , the information to be include in it , the notice to be give , how an application be to be do and so on . my concern here be that Lords amendment 30 , in seek to correct the over - disclosure of public information , have put in its place quite a complicated application procedure . therefore , it would be helpful if the Minister could say what he have or what the Government have in mind about that application process . it would be ideal if that process be just a tick box . it would be ideal if that information could be communicate to accountant across this country who regularly have to file account on behalf of very small business , and it would be helpful if the Minister could advise that it be the Government ' s intent that very small business in the circumstance I have outline will not have very private personal financial information put in the public domain , although their information will still be require by Companies House and therefore place under the protection that the Bill seek to address . I rise to endorse 100 % the brilliant speech by my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) . let I take this moment to pay tribute to her stalwart leadership of this agenda over a long time . our country be a well and fair place thank to her extraordinary work . the Minister be not too bad , either . I think that he have do a Herculean job over quite a long time , and he have seek to do the right thing with the Bill . crucially , he take the time to reach out and listen to member of the Committee and Members across the House to ensure that we be up to speed with where he be go and what he be try to achieve . the result be a well piece of legislation . however , it be not yet perfect , and we be here tonight to encourage he , have go so far , just to go those final few yard and give we a Bill that will truly be a legacy to his work here in Parliament . mine be a starting point that we have not yet talk about in this debate : the terrible state of wealth inequality in this country . it be so bad because economic crime be so bad . since 2010 , the wealth of the top 1 % in this country have multiply by 31 time that of the rest of we . that is , in part , because of the problem of economic crime . it be a problem that our country be a global capital of money laundering and fraud reckon to be worth some £ 350 billion a year — that be a mark of national shame . it be a problem that we potentially allow the ownership of more than 100 , 000 of our most prestigious and expensive property by name we just do not know . it be a problem that , last year alone , nearly £ 7 billion of property be buy with what Transparency International call " suspicious wealth " . what unite we all in this debate — indeed , what unite we all in this House — be that we know that , if we want to be a country of free trade , we have to be a country of fair trade . but if we be to be a country of fair trade , we need to be a country of clean trade , and that be why the Bill , and get it right , be so important . when we leave hole , gap and space in our defence , dirty money flood through and pollute both our economy and our democracy . we have already pass an Elections Act that do not put in place tough enough safeguard on the kind of money that could be use to elect people to this House . we risk an Elections Act too weak to protect our democracy from dirty money , and tonight we risk compound the error by fail to ensure that we have an Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill strong , tough and robust enough to stop our economy be pollute by dirty money . the Bill be welcome , and the Minister have do a good job . he have take forward many of the idea that have be discuss for a long time on all side of the House . I be particularly grateful to he for the way in which he have use the Bill , in the slapp clause , to put in place protection for truth - teller . we know that it be not yet job do and that there be furth to go , but free speech will be free because of the provision in the Bill . we need now to work together to finish a job that be almost complete ; we need to ensure that , for once and for all , we end the ludicrous secrecy around trust ; we need to strengthen the declaration of nominee so that we truly know who own what ; we need to ensure that failure to prevent fraud be something that bite on 100 % of company and do not provide carte blanche for 99 % of company to behave without that obligation ; and we need to defend our law enforcer and equip they with the tool that they need to police the legislation that we plan on pass tonight and in the day and week to come . I will underline three point very quickly , Mr Deputy Speaker . the first be about secrecy . the London School of Economics report from Andy Summers , Arun Advani and their colleague be compelling reading , and I be interested in the Minister ' s take on it . the report state that we be miss information about more than 70 % of the 152 , 000 property that be own by trust stand behind overseas entity , which mean that " even law enforcement agency do not know the true identity of the beneficial owner . " that be of real concern , especially when we know how many billion in wealth be own in this country by people who be bad actor and who make their money by , frankly , steal it from people abroad . if we have learn anything from tackle economic crime , pass tough sanction legislation and voting for new budget for our law enforcer , we surely have to recognise the reality that we can not have a situation where we do not know who own what . my right hon . friend the Member for Barking be absolutely right to ask how it can be right that there be one law for the citizen of this country — they have to declare who own what — yet the same obligation do not bite on the rich , who often live abroad . we in this country do not believe that there be one law for the rich and another law for everybody else , so I ask the Minister again to think seriously about act to fix these secrecy provision . when Transparency International and the BBC , of all people , be say that trust be use to hide the ownership of 7 , 000 overseas entity control 20 , 000 property , we know that we have a problem . when we remember the case study of Mr Usmanov , who use those secrecy provision to hide £ 170 million , we be forewarned that secrecy bring a risk of sanction bust . that be something we in this House can not permit . we know that the law enforcement budget be tiny . many of we have hear from the senior leadership of the National Crime Agency , who have come to tell we that they have to think about what harm they police . when they be try to deal with drug , illegal immigration and human trafficking , the truth be that , very often , they do not have the budget they need to get to the bottom of economic crime . that be why we need to harness civil society , the medium and the campaigner , and the fast and sure way of do so be make sure that we strip away those secrecy provision . we must make sure that find and tackle economic crime — hunt it down — be something that all of we be able to engage in . the point about nominee declaration be make brilliantly by my right hon . friend the Member for Barking , so I do not need to repeat the argument . all we would say to the Minister be that , when it come to tackle economic crime , it be sometimes not a bad idea to have belt and brace . we understand the regime of person of significant control that he have include in the Bill , and we welcome that , but why not gold - plate it ? why not make sure that it be copper - bottomed and absolutely as strong as possible ? my final point be about failure to prevent . as I have say , I know what it be like to grow a business of two people with a business plan on the table into a multimillion - pound business . business in this country be strong when it be clean , and competition be healthy when we be compete on a level playing field where company be not able to defraud other . as be brilliantly say by the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , give that many provision already bite on 100 % of business , such as failure to prevent corruption , why not apply the provision of failure to prevent fraud to all business , too ? why be we say to our business community that they only need to be half virtuous ? frankly , that be a recipe for disaster . I be seriously worried that we will have a situation whereby people will set up company with a turnover of below £ 36 million in order to create bank account through which bad money be break up into little chunk and launder in bad way , and I think there should be an obligation on company director to act to prevent fraud and , indeed , money laundering . I think our economy would be healthy for that . the Bill be tremendous progress . it be the work of many people in this House , and we should be grateful for that , but we say to the Minister , why leave this Bill imperfect ? he have it within his grasp to get a Bill that will be cheer from this House . he should seize that opportunity with both hand tonight . again , thank you for your brevity , Liam Byrne . I would like to pay my respect to my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) for her excellent opening on our behalf , as well as to my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for her excellent knowledge and understanding . the time she have put in be just unbelievable . she speak about Bill Browder — no one can read his work without realise just how serious this issue be . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , who cover it so aptly and bring it down to how dangerous and very serious this be for our democracy and our economic equality . what could happen , and what I think will happen , be frightening . I want to focus on the importance of legislate on the failure to prevent fraud and money laundering , which be crime commit in the shadow . currently , there be a severe lack of provision to prevent economic crime , which we know be the good , cheap and most effective way to tackle our dirty money problem . these crime be commit and witness by some of the most senior professional at a company , and even if they be not participate but just happen to witness fraud , surely they must be under a legal duty to report it . amendment 159 be introduce in the other place , and I pay my respect to the other place for its absolutely wonderful scrutiny of the Bill . I commend it to the Minister . he have spearhead the Bill to where it be now , but he just need to go that bit far . we must have reasonable prevention mechanism in place . the failure to prevent measure would work on multiple front . first and foremost , they would act as a deterrent , force company to act and to take economic crime seriously if they know they would be hold liable . deterrence be prove to work . as a health and safety professional , I know that regulation to make company and director liable make tremendous inroad on health and safety . we may wonder why there be always so many dispute on construction site , but it be because there be no health and safety . the worker have to fight for everything , and they could not do it without legislation . that be why we be here : to tackle thing when they be not be tackle , and economic crime be not be tackle at the present time . that legislation result in a 90 % drop in death and serious injury on construction site , which could have involve just build a few house . secondly , regulatory factor such as the fine that exist be not sufficient to bring about the require change . after all , the fine could be a lot less than these company be earn from economic crime , and they become a cost factor into do business for those company . this can not be right , and it simply can not continue . to our shame , Britain be the global hotbed of economic crime , at a cost of £ 350 billion a year . the people of Ukraine be feel the impact of this unchecked economic crime , as some of the main benefactor have be russian oligarch , the russian state and Putin himself . there be the magnitsky sanction , but it tell we a lot , do it not , when Putin kill his own people as a deterrent ? when we look at the invasion of Ukraine , we can not sit back and let this continue unchecked . the Government amendment to cover this do not go far enough . well - organise criminal entity would easily get around legislation that only touch the large company and the large business . they take advantage of small and medium - sized business , as my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill say . that be exactly what they do — they do whatever it take . they be clever than we , and they be do it now . well - organise criminal will get around it . as 64 % of company have experience fraud , this would help those company . the Government legislation fail to make failure to prevent money launder an offence . the justification for do that be the money launder regulation , yet there have be only one corporate conviction since they be introduce — that of NatWest in 2021 . clearly , the money launder regulation be not good enough . the new legislation would make company prove that they have the right procedure in place to prevent money laundering . this be the type of tough legislation we need to crack down on economic crime . for too long Britain have be the laundromat for foreign despot and dictator . I hear a Member across the Floor talk about feel the chill ; what be more chilling than see what be go on and turn a blind eye , not wash the blood off our hand for the crime against humanity commit for the very money be launder around our country ? I urge the Minister — I know where his heart be — not to throw away this wonderful opportunity to save so much . democracy be at risk . it really be not acceptable . please be brave enough — be brave enough and you will sleep at night . I thank all member for their contribution . I will not reiterate all the point I make in my opening speech , which address many of the point raise in the debate but shall talk to a few of the point make . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) make some point that be also reflect by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam challenge I to explain why subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) of the propose new clause in Lords amendment 151 do not prevent excessive burden on sme . that measure say we must have in place " such prevention procedure " and there be a concern that many million of sme across the country would have to put in place prevention procedure despite there probably be no chance of any fraud at that organisation . so there would be burden that otherwise would not exist on those business . the Minister be right , but subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) refer to " such prevention procedure " as be " reasonable in all the circumstance " , so in very many case that would be a very minimal requirement and probably only what company that be behave responsibly be do already . secondly , as I be sure the Minister be about to point out , subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) state that it might not be " reasonable in all the circumstance to expect the body to have any prevention procedure in place . " so if it be not consider reasonable to have any , it would be possible to rely on that defence if they do not . I think my right hon . and learn Friend will accept there will also be a requirement to analyse actuarily the business to see what risk there be , and any perceive risk would of course require those prevention procedure to be put in place . we have analyse this and try to get some context around the cost to business and think it would be in the order of £ 4 billion , so there would be significant burden . for that reason , we be not persuade to change our threshold . let I correct myself to the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) . I be only out by a factor of 100 when I talk about the number of warning notice send to overseas entity ; 1 , 000 warning notice have be send . the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) talk about the introduction of slapp , and we be clearly keen to do that at the early possible time . we have to work with the Civil Procedure Rule Committee to implement a new cost protection scheme for slapp defendant and the early dismissal mechanism via secondary legislation as soon as possible . we can not give a definite date , however . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) for all the work she do with the all - party group on whistleblowing , which I be heavily engage with as a Back Bencher . we have a review of whistleblowing that should conclude by the end of 2023 . on extend slapp to area of our economy outside the economic sector , we be consider further legislative option . clearly , in this propose legislation it could only pertain to economic crime due to the extent of the Bill . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) rightly talk about enforcement resource and also some of the limitation in the current regime , and that be exactly why we be legislate . the provision we will make will increase the incorporation fee for Companies House . in addition to the £ 63 million we have put in to pump - prime this work — the extra people at Companies House will therefore be resource , and there be already 400 people there to enforce the provision of this legislation — we expect to increase incorporation fee to around £ 50 and also to extend the cost of annual return to raise the money as necessary to make sure that the requirement of the Bill be fully implement . give the woefully low number of fine for false filing and the single one for not register a person of significant control for scottish limited partnership , will we see that increase ? that be exactly why we be legislate . these be the big reform to Companies House in 170 year . we have to legislate first and ensure that the resource and the enforcement be in place . we be on the same page in this area . the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) — my former partner in fight economic crime , of course — make many good point , many of which I be sympathetic to . may I correct she on one particular area ? she talk about people such as Abramovich and Usmanov and say that we have no idea about the stuff they be hide in trust . that be not the case , because HMRC and other law enforcement body have access to that information about trust ; it be not hide from they . so it be not the case that we do not know about the asset hold in those kind of vehicle for those kind of people . clearly we will always listen to what she and other say to make sure we do the right thing to tackle economic crime without put new , undue burden on business . in term of money laundering , I might have get the right hon . member ' s figure wrong , if she say there be one fine for money laundering . there be 240 fine for money laundering by HMRC in the last six month of last year . there have be some very big fine , include the FCA fine Santander £ 107 . 7 million and HSBC £ 63 . 9 million for failing in their anti - money laundering control . there be a significant regime already , although of course it can always be improve . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) do a brilliant job in stand up for sme and understand the corporate governance process and regime . he be quite right : amendment 30 to clause 56 mean that we will look at this area and make regulation to specify what it will mean to ensure that certain company can hide some of the information we now require , such as account and balance sheet . my ambition be exactly as his be : that it should be a simple process like a tick box to conceal that information from public view in the case he describe . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) have do fantastic work in all this , and I be grateful for his kind word . he challenge why we would not gold - plate some of the exist provision , such as on nominee or failure to prevent . the reason be that gold - plate cost money for business . that be why we be careful about duplicate exist regime in the way we have set out already . I accept he want we to go far , but we think we have good reason for not go far than we have currently . I be grateful to the hon . member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) for her kind word and her support for the offence on failure to prevent . again , we want to make sure that those burden be proportionate , as we have set out previously . I know she would challenge we to go far , but we think we be strike the right balance . to conclude , I urge all member on both side of the House to note the improvement that the Government have already make to this Bill and the critical importance of strike the right balance between take action to tackle economic crime while be mindful of the burden on legitimate business and therefore to vote with we today . question put , that amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 23 be make . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 295 , Noes 205 . question accordingly agree to . Amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 23 . lord amendment 23 , as amend , agree to . after clause 180 - failure to prevent fraud Amendment ( a ) propose to Lords amendment 151 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 209 . question accordingly agree to . Amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 151 . Lords amendment 151 , as amend , agree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make to Lords amendment 153 . lord amendment 153 , as amend , agree to . lord amendment 115 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 117 — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 294 , Noes 206 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 117 disagree to . after clause 180 - failure to prevent fraud and money launder Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 159 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 291 , Noes 209 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 159 disagree to . More than three hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . after clause 187 - civil recovery : cost of proceeding Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 161 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Andrew Stephenson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Julian Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 292 , Noes 206 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 161 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 161 . Lords amendment 56 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 56 . lord amendment 1 to 22 , 24 to 55 , 57 to 114 , 116 , 118 to 150 , 152 , 154 to 158 , 160 and 162 to 229 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 6 , 7 , 9 to 12 , 14 to 21 , 30 , 32 to 34 , 54 , 68 , 120 , 124 , 125 , 173 , 174 and 178 to 201 . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 115 , 117 and 159 ; that Kevin Hollinrake , Scott Mann , Jane Stevenson , Alexander Stafford , Seema Malhotra , Taiwo Owatemi and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Kevin Hollinrake be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Julie Marson . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill consider in Committee [ relevant document : Northern Ireland Main estimate July 2023 , CP 884 ; oral evidence take before the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on 3 May , 24 May , 21 June and 4 July 2023 , on the funding and delivery of public service , HC 1165 . ] [ Dame Rosie Winterton in the Chair ] we now come to — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think the Mace be in the wrong place . very well spot — it will be move . thank you . clause 1 - Use of resource Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the follow : clause 2 to 9 stand part the schedule . I should point out that no amendment have be select , so colleague will need to speak very specifically to the clause , should they wish to speak , but there will obviously be an opportunity for member to contribute on Third reading as well . thank you , Dame Rosie , and I be delighted to serve with you in the Chair today as we go through Committee stage of this vital Bill . in the absence of a function executive , this Bill will allow public service to continue function and help to protect public finance in Northern Ireland . I propose to go through the clause now , and then with the permission of the Committee , respond at the end of the debate to point raise . clause 1 and 2 authorise the use of resource by Northern Ireland Departments and other specify public body amount to £ 27 , 403 , 514 , 000 in the year end 31 March 2024 for the purpose specify in part 2 of schedule 1 and subject to the limit set out in subsection ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) of clause 2 . I should remind the Committee that this Bill only set out the available total resource and capital budget for Northern Ireland Departments of £ 14 . 2 billion and £ 2 . 2 billion respectively . in the absence of an Executive , it be the responsibility of the Northern Ireland Departments now to make the specific spending decision to ensure that they live within the budget limit set out in this Bill . the Government recognise that this be not easy and require difficult decision . clause 3 and 4 authorise the Northern Ireland Department of Finance to issue out of the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland the sum of £ 22 , 790 , 893 , 000 for the purpose set out in part 2 of schedule 1 . clause 5 authorise the temporary borrowing by the Northern Ireland Department of Finance of £ 11 , 395 , 447 , 000 , approximately half the sum cover by clause 3 . this be a normal safeguard against the possibility of a temporary deficiency arise in the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland , and any such borrowing be to be repay by 31 March 2024 . clause 6 authorise the use of income by Northern Ireland Departments and other specify public body from the source specify in part 3 of the schedule for the purpose specify in part 2 of the schedule in the year end 31 March 2024 . clause 7 provide for the authorisation and limit in the Bill to have the same effect as if they be contain in a Budget Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly . it also modify reference in other piece of legislation to the Northern Ireland estimate , which would normally form part of the Assembly ' s supply process . clause 8 and 9 be self - explanatory , in that they deal with such matter as interpretation and the short title . finally , the schedule to the Bill set out for each Northern Ireland Department the amount of money authorise for use , the purpose for which it can be spend and other source of income from which it can draw . part 1 of the schedule set out the amount of resource authorise for use by each Northern Ireland Department and other public body in clause 1 and 2 and the sum of money grant to each Northern Ireland Department and other body in clause 3 and 4 for the year end 31 March 2024 . part 2 of the schedule set out the purpose for which resource under clause 2 and money under clause 4 can be use by each Northern Ireland Department and other body for the year end 31 March 2024 . finally , part 3 of the schedule set out the source from which income can be use by each Northern Ireland Department and other body for the year end 31 March 2024 . I hope I have provide the Committee with sufficient detail on the intended effect of each provision in the Bill . we have also publish more detailed information in respect of each of the Northern Ireland Department ' s spend plan through the main estimate , which the Secretary of State lay as a Command Paper on 3 July . I look forward to hear member ’ view on the Bill and their contribution , and with the leave of the House I will later endeavour to respond to as many point as possible when I wind up . it be an honour to serve under your chairship , Dame Rosie , in this Committee . I will keep my remark brief to allow we to hear from the Northern Ireland party on Third Reading . once again we come together to debate legislation that should be deal with in Stormont . we still have civil servant run department with restricted power , try to plug a gap of £ 800 million and unable to consult with Cabinet Ministers . Stormont be the right and proper place for scrutiny to take place . in this place , we can not simply provide the level of consideration and scrutiny that this budget deserve . to quote today ' s report from Pivotal , " manage this situation have be extremely challenging , if not impossible , thank to two interlock problem : no political leadership for decision - making and impossibly tight budget . " on the first problem , sadly I have see no sign over the recess that indicate the restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive be any nearer . I would welcome hear from the Secretary of State what discussion he have have over the summer with party in Northern Ireland , as the situation be now beyond break point . on the second problem — the budget — we do not oppose the Bill , as service be in desperate need of funding , but the fact be that this budget be not enough to address the problem face public service in Northern Ireland . a real - term fund fall of 3 . 3 % mean that exist service simply can not continue to function as normal . the people of Northern Ireland have be leave face cut to support and increase in charge for everyday necessity during the cost of living crisis . while we appreciate the need to explore avenue to raise revenue , the measure put forward so far may cause more societal damage than the monetary gain be worth . as I have mention , we be miss a vital level of scrutiny and accountability for these measure . we , the Labour party , agree with the principle that local decision should be make by local politician , but the situation be now extreme . while there continue to be no function Executive , I ask the Secretary of State to consider what he can do within his power to help the people of Northern Ireland . this be a critical state of affair , and the full impact may not yet be realise , as any overspend will inevitably lead to far cut the next year . the only viable way forward for Northern Ireland be the restoration of the Executive , and I implore the Secretary of State , the Minister and the main party in Northern Ireland to ensure that happen soon rather than later . if I may , I will both put on record my thank to the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) and my congratulation on his new job , and welcome the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) to his new position . I remember the speech the right hon . Gentleman give in our debate on the anniversary of the Good Friday agreement , just before the Easter recess , which show a depth of knowledge of , interest in and love for Northern Ireland . I be sure that the Secretary of State , the Minister of State and , indeed , the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee look forward to work with he in the week and month ahead . while I understand that new clause 1 , table in my name and that of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , have not be select for debate , I hope that the Minister will give some consideration to the merit that underpin the argument with regard to the maintenance of the Audit Committee , notwithstanding Stormont not be in place . the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) be absolutely right . the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland be under huge pressure as a result of the covid backlog in health , as we know , and an increase in demand with a shrink supply . the recent event with regard to the PSNI will clearly be put additional pressure on other budget as well . the restoration of Stormont would not provide all the key to unlock all the currently locked or semi - locked door , but , by God , it would make a huge difference . the hon . Lady be right on that . I have say right from the start that one can understand the point and principle of the Democratic Unionist party with regard to the protocol and the Windsor framework , but I think the Government have make it clear that will not change ; it just have to be make to work . the Minister in the other place have signify that there will be additional statutory instrument . my cri de coeur be one that I have make before — it have hitherto fall on deaf ear . this be a situation affect public service and those who be most reliant on they . those people — protect to some extent by this necessary budget Bill — have no choice other than to use the service provide by the state and the public sector . they can not go elsewhere . they be look to local politician with a depth of understanding to find the answer to these question . I appreciate that this be a slightly wide point , but this Bill be require — it be bring about not through the desire of Government but through necessity . that necessity could end , and it could end tomorrow . that would lead to well governance , well decision making and transformational approach to the delivery of public service , get more bang for the buck and a well uplift for the people of Northern Ireland . those of we who be commit to public service should be seek that . I therefore support the Bill , and will support the Government in any vote in Committee or on Third Reading , but it be a sad day when we have to pass such a Bill because of some who be resile from the position of trust to which they have be elect . rise — I will call the right hon . and learn Gentleman , but I remind colleague that there be Third read speech and Committee speech , and general discussion about the merit of the Bill be probably safe in Third Reading . thank you Dame Rosie . I will trespass upon your good will by focus on clause 1 and the necessity of what we have to pass today . I will not repeat the comment of my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , which I think be sadly axiomatic in a situation that be difficult and not in the long - term interest — or even the short - term interest — of the people of Northern Ireland . it be certainly not in the interest of sustainable public service . on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , we hear time and again from interested group from the voluntary sector and the third sector in Northern Ireland about the difficulty they face with the absence of long - term planning and multi - year budget , and the effect on their ability to retain and hire people who can do the important work of provide and help to support public service , whether in the field of health , education or disability , for example . there be interesting evidence from the Northern Ireland Audit Committee about the fact that , while in the rest of the United Kingdom , in Scotland and in England and Wales , the National Audit Office have a life of its own and be independent of whether Parliament sit — it can carry on through the election period , for example — that be not the case in Northern Ireland . it mean that , in the absence of an Assembly , the committee can not function . we be talk about not a party political body but an independent organisation that be able to audit , check and make sure that public body such as the Northern Ireland Office — those give the task of administer public fund — be do so responsibly and in a way that be consistent with their duty , so that they can be hold to account in the way that Departments of state here in England and Wales and Scotland be hold to account by their respective audit body . that be a material difference and a disbenefit to Northern Ireland as oppose to the rest of the United Kingdom . I be sure that there be more public body of that nature , whose existence or continuance depend on the sitting of the Assembly , which could benefit from be free from those shackle , do independent , non - partisan , non - party political work . this would be a very good place to start . my right hon . and learn Friend make a very good case . I be conscious that his amendment be not select , but if he would do I the honour , I would be glad to meet he and hear his opinion on this far . he make some very good point . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend , and I would commend he for any discussion he might have with the Audit Committee and its member who have give evidence to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee here in Westminster . on that note I will close my remark . it be safe to say that it be sad but a reality at the moment that we have to legislate in this way for the affair of a part of our United Kingdom that have be give the power of devolution but , for reason that be all too apparent , be not in a position to exercise that power . it must do so soon , not in the self - interest of the politician who sit in that place but for the people they be suppose to serve . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 9 order to stand part of the Bill . Schedule agree to . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third reading . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I would like to place on record my thank to all those involve in the passage of the Bill through the House . in particular , I thank the Labour Front Benchers for their constructive approach to the Bill and its necessity . I take this opportunity to welcome the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , to his place ; I know he will hold we to account with great skill , but will seek to pursue the good interest for the people of Northern Ireland . I hear he say " peace , prosperity and progress " . that be what we all want . I thank Diggory Bailey in the Office of the parliamentary Counsel for the expert fashion in which he and colleague draft the Bill with Northern Ireland counterpart in the Office of Legislative Counsel and the official in the Department of Finance who assist greatly in our preparation for this Bill ' s passage . it be no secret that the pressure on Northern Ireland ' s public finance be acute . as with the 2022 - 23 budget , set the budget be not an easy task but it be necessary to deliver a balanced budget and provide the Northern Ireland Departments with budget clarity to help to get spending under control . as far as possible , we have aim to protect frontline public service . in recognition of the pressure on the health service , over half the total budget be earmark for health . as I have say many time from this Dispatch Box , and as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have say many time , people in Northern Ireland rightly expect to see these decision take in Stormont and not in Westminster . we agree with they . however , until that happen , the Bill will allow public service to continue function and help to protect public finance in Northern Ireland . I therefore commend it to the House . may I begin by express my thank to my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , who have already be mention this evening , for the outstanding contribution he make in this role and to wish he well in his new job ? it be clear from the debate during the Bill ' s passage that the current situation be not sustainable , hence the need for the Bill . public service be under strain . indeed , the Minister have just say that the pressure be acute and I agree with he . it be noticeable that the Bill have be widely perceive as a budget that do not take account of those need and those pressure . it be clear that we can not keep set budget in this way and that the structural problem in Northern Ireland be get bad in the absence of an Executive . it be not fair or right to ask civil servant to make decision which politician should be make . the political vacuum in Northern Ireland be have serious consequence . the crisis face the police service be all too evident — we discuss that early today in the urgent question — and the Secretary of State hear many reference to the financial pressure it be already face , never mind the cost that may arise from respond to the data breach . but there be concern about other Departments , too . nhs waiting list for Northern Ireland be the bad in our country . there be report that Northern Ireland school be only now be survey for structural weakness cause by reinforce concrete . if that find that cost be require to be meet to repair or replace those roof , will that money have to come out of the budget set by the Bill ? I understand that the Secretary of State have receive advice from civil servant about possible revenue - raise measure . how do he plan to use they ? will they be publish ? those and other challenge be the stuff of Government . it be what we be elect to deal with wherever it be that we sit , but that be not happen in Northern Ireland at the moment and it need to in the interest of its citizen , a point make very clearly by the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who chair the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . on Second reading before the recess , the Secretary of State say : " the summer therefore present an opportunity for the Northern Ireland party to come together as a restore executive and take their own budget legislation through the Assembly , make the remain stage of the Bill in this place superfluous . " — [ Official Report , 10 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 101 . ] now , we would all wish that that have happen but , as my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) point out , it be not entirely clear what be do over the summer by the Government to try to bring the Northern Ireland party together . we know that the Prime Minister be very happy to visit Northern Ireland after the Windsor framework — a great achievement , but it be mean to restore power sharing — but his absence since have be noticeable . and it be not clear , to be honest , what the Government ' s plan be now to regain trust , include by respond to the continue concern express by the Unionist community in Northern Ireland to enable the institution to get up and run again . the Labour party do not oppose the Bill as to do so would cause deep instability , but , as I think everybody who have contribute so far tonight have say , the good and only way forward be the restoration of Stormont so that local representative can get to grip with the budget and be accountable to the people who elect they , the people of Northern Ireland , for the decision they make . frankly , that day can not come soon enough . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I , too , welcome the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) to his new position , and I look forward to work alongside he as we discharge our respective role in opposition to the Government . I will begin with the now customary bromide that we all wish we be not here to discuss this , and that all the relevant decision should be make in Stormont , which should be up and run again , scrutinise a function executive — but the fact be that we be back here , and , as I say on Second Reading and as other member have also say , this be not a budget in any meaningful sense . it be about the allocation of money and what it can be spend on , but it be devoid of any political steer for the emerge priority and challenge face community in Northern Ireland . it be a hospital pass give to the civil servant who have be leave to administer , effectively , a salami - slice exercise with little more than the guidance that they " must control and manage expenditure within the limit of the appropriation set out in Budget act " . even within that total , however , the budget have reduce the overall amount available to departmental budget in Northern Ireland , which mean that funding be head in the opposite direction not only to the pressure of inflation , but to demand for public service and the press need — in a cost of live crisis — to negotiate a fair set of settlement across the public sector . overall , even with the spending decision that can lawfully be take at the moment , Northern Ireland be head for a budget overspend of about £ 500 million . express like that , it just sound like a big number , but it be a big number with enormous consequence , and , as ever , those who will be affect be the most vulnerable group in society , the least well off , and those who be most dependent on public service . it be not my intention to go through every line of the budget and all the programme that will be cut , the service that will be reduce and the area in which people will simply have to do with less in the absence of decision making . however , it be plain that ministerial decision be urgently need for the setting of a budget with the necessary strategic direction , which can provide the clarity that will enable the civil service to work with it and deliver not just sustainable public finance , but sustainable public service . let I suggest to Ministers , as gently as I can , that stand back and watch Northern Ireland ' s public service suffer with less money , and observe the consequence in community , be a tactic that will have limit effect if the intention be to drive people back to negotiation . the solution to a non - functioning and non - sit Stormont clearly lie elsewhere . I do not underestimate the challenge that will eventually face an executive when one can return , but nevertheless this be not the way to bring about the set of circumstance that we all wish to see . the solution that will enable Stormont to sit once again , and enable an executive to be form and to function , self - evidently lie elsewhere , and I urge Ministers to continue to do all that they can — to do more , in fact — to help to bring that about . the hour be late , so I will make just a couple of point about the budget . the first be that , of course , political party in Northern Ireland have elect representative . we have our own priority . we have thing that we want to see do , and thing that we believe should not have money spend on they . of course we would love to be in a situation where we have a restore assembly , but I think that the new shadow Secretary of State — whom I congratulate on his appointment — hit the nail on the head when he say that Government have a responsibility to regain the trust of the party of Northern Ireland , and this Government have singularly fail to do so . one only have to look at the way in which they have handle affair since the Windsor framework be introduce . they take Members off Committees because they suddenly realise that the argument be put forward for legislation be not even go to wear in their own party , so at the last minute we have half the Committee replace . over the summer period we have have regulation introduce without any chance of public scrutiny . that enable legislation will have an impact on trade between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . now we be head towards the autumn , when the border operating model will see check on good come from GB into Northern Ireland , as well as Northern Ireland manufacturer and producer find themselves subject to check when they try to sell into the GB market . the Government say that they want to restore trust and give we an assurance that we be part of the United Kingdom and a fully integral part of the United Kingdom market , but there be no evidence of that . quite honestly , no Government can expect unionist representative who have fight to maintain the Union to go back into Stormont to implement policy that will drive a further wedge between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom , and where they will be oblige to accept EU legislation , which even the Windsor framework indicate would be the cause of divergence between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . if the Government really want politician in Northern Ireland to play a role in decide budget and how they be spend , they first of all have to accept that unionist can not and should not be expect to participate in the demise of the Union by have to sit in an Assembly that would be force to implement the very policy that they believe be detrimental to the Union . it would be hypocritical for DUP Ministers and Unionist Ministers to sit in the Assembly and by law — because the court have rule on it — have to implement something that their colleague could be stand here in this place condemn and say be detrimental to the Union . there be an onus on the Government to recognise that the Windsor framework have not sort out the issue and that it have make they bad . I think that October will show that it have make they bad , and if we want devolution restore , it have to be on the basis of — I be listen carefully , and I appreciate the tone in which the right hon . Gentleman be deliver his remark , but I have stand here at least twice and say that we recognise that this be a hard compromise for Unionists and Eurosceptics . I think it have to be say that the European Union have its own stakeholder . personally , I be among those who say for a long time that we could have administrative and technical solution to deal with the issue of Northern Ireland . I work on that before the referendum and subsequently I see to it that paper be produce after I resign from the Government in 2018 . this be a subject extremely close to my heart , but since the right hon . Gentleman raise it again , I would say to he and to all Unionists , of whatever strength of opinion , that one have to choose from the available future . he know that ; he be a more experienced politician than I . one have to choose from the available future . the EU have its own stakeholder . we have manage to reset the relationship with Ireland and with the European Union , and that offer the hope of a well future for all of we in western Europe . on the budget , the sure way to harm the Union now be to allow Northern Ireland to fail , because people vote for change when the world be not work for they . when I look at the available future for Northern Ireland , I see that the one that be go to work well and good preserve the Union be to get on and get Northern Ireland work . I know that the right hon . Gentleman be frustrate . I be frustrated , too , and I would like to have do well on the Windsor framework , but now we have to choose from the good of the available future . that be the kind of answer that worry I as a Unionist , and it should worry many people in the Minister ' s party if they listen carefully . the Minister seem to be take the view that , because stakeholder in the European Union demand certain thing , the Government should respond . this Government have an obligation , first of all , to the country they govern , and that obligation be to make sure the country be not break up . that should be the main consideration , not what stakeholder in Europe think and not re - establish relation with the European Union and the Government in Ireland , if that mean break off and destroy relation with the people of part of the country to which we belong . if that be the approach , I do not think we will get very far . this surrender approach be not a compromise that unionist can accept . the Minister may find it acceptable , but we do not find it acceptable . I know this be a debate on the budget , so I will try to be very brief . I know the right hon . Gentleman do not need I to give he a lecture on the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , but Northern Ireland have have particular problem and a particular status that do not exist in my constituency or anywhere else in Great Britain . we have to face up to the reality of where we be . this Government believe in the Union , but we also respect the Belfast / Good Friday agreement in all its dimension , and that include devolution . I implore he to make the Union work . of course , the important thing in the Belfast agreement be that the status of Northern Ireland be guarantee , and that no change would be make to Northern Ireland ' s status unless it be decide by the people in Northern Ireland . the people in Northern Ireland do not agree to this change of status , which make it a vassal state of the European Union . I do not want to labour the point — I understand that you be be very good in allow I to emphasise this point , Madam Deputy Speaker — but if the Government wish to see Northern Ireland politician make decision on this , they have to respect that there be a unionist tradition and a nationalist tradition in Northern Ireland . they can not ignore the Unionist community ' s concern , worry , fear and opposition to the arrangement that be currently in place . far , far bad , they can not expect Unionists to co - operate in facilitate the implementation of those arrangement . on the budget , the Minister have accept that there be pressure on public service and spending in Northern Ireland . nearly everyone who have speak have say that it would be much well for politician in Northern Ireland to make these decision . the truth of the matter be that , even if the Assembly be up and run , it could not deliver the basic service that be expect in Northern Ireland and that be fund in the rest of the United Kingdom , because the Government have do two thing . first , since 1922 — and the Fiscal Council have make this clear — expenditure on public service in the rest of the United Kingdom have be base on need , but the Government have ignore their own criterion and the basis on which they decide spending in the rest of the United Kingdom . the Holtham formula have not be apply in Northern Ireland . indeed , the Fiscal Council have estimate that , as a result of need not be consider , we probably have about £ 322 million less expenditure available than we would have have if we have be treat on the same basis as England , Scotland and Wales . I do not believe the Assembly ' s decision have always be good , and I do not believe there have always be the wise use of money , but the problem have not primarily be cause by the Assembly . the Government ' s decision not to base this budget on need be cause some of the issue . let I give an example . education spending have go up by 6 % in the rest of the United Kingdom , but it have fall in Northern Ireland . the overall budget for Northern Ireland this year have fall by 3 . 2 % in real term , whereas the budget for the rest of the United Kingdom go up by 1 . 7 % in real term . that be partly a result of the fact that the formula use for the rest of the United Kingdom , which be base on need , have not be apply in Northern Ireland . of course , the situation have be exacerbate by the Government ' s decision to claw back the overspend by the Assembly in the last year in which it be sit , which amount to about £ 287 million . so the pressure on public service , which the Minister have lament , be partly cause by the decision that have be make here ; they will affect the amount of money we have to spend in Northern Ireland . I could go through the consequence for each Department , but I be not go to do so at this time of the evening . however , in education we have a real - term cut , and in police we be already about 1 , 000 officer below what the New Decade , New Approach and the Patten arrangement say we should have . that situation be go to get bad . of course , we also now face the expenditure that be go to be necessary because of the problem in school and the massive expenditure that will result from the data breach in the Police Service of Northern Ireland . so far , no clear indication have be give that the payment for those thing will come from anything other than this overstretch budget . it would be useful for the Minister to indicate to we at the end of the debate whether the money that have to be spend on make school good as a result of the problem with the concrete that be use , and the massive spending that there will be on fine from the Information Commissioner , the relocation of officer and the mitigation measure that have to be take to protect officer , will still come from the overstretch budget or whether there will be an in - year consequence for that . alternatively , will it be treat simply the same as the Barnett consequential ? will the future Barnett consequential be treat and ignore ? I hope that the Minister fully understand our position . we be not be truculent . we be not pique because we have not get our way . we be simply make it clear that the ask that be be make , on the political compromise on the Union and on the financial difficulty that this budget would cause , make it impossible for the Assembly to be up and run again . I start by thank the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) for his service as Opposition spokesman . he be an enthusiastic and frequent visitor to Northern Ireland , and that be always appreciate . I warmly welcome the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) . his be a widely welcome appointment ; he be a very substantial person and I just hope he be not regret his life choice have watch this evening ' s debate . I will not rehearse all that we and other say on Second Reading , except to say that this be , unfortunately , another milestone of failure , deliver this budget in this place . it be another blow to public service and to public faith in politic in Northern Ireland . as we say before the summer , this be about choice . every budget that everybody have to make face choice , some of which be difficult and will not be popular with everybody . however , the choice to withhold government be one reject by the overwhelming number of people in Northern Ireland , of various different background , most of whom , whatever our difference , want to choose devolved government , hard work , partnership and compromise , as my party be do . yes , that include compromise on constitutional issue , which many of we do every day of our life when our identity do not match up exactly in every way with the Government we have . however , we work at it and we work on the common ground , in the interest of all the people . in the interest of protect those service , on Second reading we put forward our detailed triple lock proposal , which be a way to protect service from the short - term sharp cut and to create a pathway to long - term reform that the public service need . as member will know , at this stage of this budget we have also table a proposal to design an informal consultative role for the Irish Government on these budgetary decision . Plan A be a reform Stormont , where everybody make decision together . Plan B be change the rule to allow those who want to work to do so , but we be register the principle that hang around for month after month , do nothing about the challenge face Northern Ireland , drift into the cosiness , for some , of direct rule be just not good enough . the rest of we get to have view and opinion , and good governance as well . this be not a proposal for joint authority , but Democratic Unionist party member should be aware that the long they insist that Northern Ireland can not work , the wide , deep and louder the conversation about our change constitutional future will be . there be big choice ahead about our future , but also about the here and now ; it be the here and now that this Budget impact so substantially . as we outline before , it have a catastrophic impact on health , education , climate resilience and economic opportunity . at the weekend , the Secretary of State say that there would be no stick plaster , but the allocation do not even allow for any healing . for example , next week Northern Ireland will host an investment conference . we will seek investment not only against the backdrop of the governance black hole but with over 100 area of Northern Ireland that can not be develop at the moment because of a serious lack of wastewater infrastructure . however , this Budget mean that the Government — the 100 % shareholder — will not invest in that infrastructure or follow the proposal make by the utility regulator . that be literally , in a very direct way , impact not just the environment but our economic future . the think - tank Pivotal have produce a sobering report , which I hope every Member here will read and absorb , call " Governing Northern Ireland without an Executive " . it detail the impact of the neglect and the long tail of the damage that these period of desertion have on everybody in Northern Ireland . we have a shortfall of about £ 800 million and the most vulnerable have a bleak year ahead . People in Northern Ireland feel that a global game be be play with they and around they . I say to those people who manipulate the public and leave the public hanging , and then try to get they to go along with their proposal and have faith in they about the constitutional future : it be not go to work . it be a pleasure , as always , to follow the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) , my constituency neighbour , but the content of my speech will be slightly different from hers . I will not delve into the Committee stage , amendment that be table but not bring forward , or amendment that be needlessly provocative and step far away from the principle that the party that table they purport to stand for , but I want to talk about the Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Bill , which be the second such budget Bill that have be before this House this year . when we discuss the original Bill , it be just call the budget Bill , rather than no . 1 or no . 2 . we be deal with last year ' s financial position and , at that stage , member from my party introduce the discussion around need . we challenge the Government about their understanding of need , and we be patronise at that time . we be tell , without any sense of irony , shame or knowledge of the fact , that in Northern Ireland we be over - fund and get £ 1 . 21 for every £ 1 that be spend in England . but still we try to bring the conversation back to assess need and the similar process that Wales have to go through over five year with the Holtham Commission . however , there be no sense that the position that we be outline , identify by the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council in September last year , be a position that recognise that while our Budget may grow by 3 . 6 % , public spending in England be go to grow by 6 % , or a recognition that by the end of this financial cycle household in Northern Ireland would each be £ 2 , 000 less well - off than their counterpart in the rest of the United Kingdom , and therefore there be a budgetary problem . it have take from January of this year to now for that seed to start germinating . when there be a recognition in public discourse that this be a punishment budget before we this evening — this have be describe as a punishment budget , which have be ignore by those in power — and no decision be take to change it meaningfully or beneficially for the people of Northern Ireland , it will hurt we economically . we can not systemically assess Northern Ireland public finance and know that what Northern Ireland get be less than what it need and not recognise that that have a material impact on the delivery of public service . yet that be exactly what we be discuss this evening . the Fiscal Council have now publish and what it say be recognise . I remember the back and forth with the Chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . I be grateful that he take on my request to carry out an inquiry on this issue . he have be on a journey and now recognise that when the Fiscal Council say what we need to deliver effective public service with £ 1 . 24 , we be get less than what we need . when that be do year on year , there be a compound negative impact . it mean that every year we be start with less and that this budget simply have a recur feature of make sure that public service in Northern Ireland be deny the money that they need to be operate effectively . I know that repetition be not sinful in this place , but it be worth reiterate time and again that , until the Government embrace this discussion meaningfully and properly , Northern Ireland public service will not be able to flourish . drastic decision that be be take and have be take will continue to be take . what the hon . Gentleman be say be undoubtedly true , but do he also accept — I think the Select Committee have be hear this during our inquiry — that there be a real sense of frustration among many of the professional practitioner about the absence of the delivery of transformational change : deliver public service in a different way ; or get more bang for the buck , to put it more crudely . a function Executive in Stormont would lead to some big , bold and brave decision . I understand that would be difficult for party across the piece , but try to deliver public service in the same old way in the absence of transformational change , give budgetary pressure across the public purse in respect of whichever party in the UK , be an opportunity that be miss and be to the detriment of people across the whole of Northern Ireland . the good that can be hope for in this scenario be that a return to devolve Government mean that locally elect representative and Ministers in an Executive can make the choice base on the information put before they . the hon . Gentleman can not — nor can I — dictate what those choice should be . the choice have be there for previous Executives , yet I may argue that the wrong decision have be make . but what I be suggest in the here and now be what we can control . not only be we continue to finance less than what we need , but we be continue to break parity between the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland and England , Scotland and Wales . the former Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Julian Smith ) , who be in his place , will remember the pay award parity issue that abound whenever he be embark on the New Decade , New Approach discussion in 2019 , culminate in a deal in 2020 . the first nursing strike ever in any part of the United Kingdom be base on that pay parity issue alone . and here we be , just three year later , and parity have break again . here we be from the last financial year and we recognise that there be not only a £ 500 million project overspend this year , but a £ 575 million public pay pressure . when we add on the overspend from last year , which be £ 297 million but now seem to be £ 254 million , the figure , whatever it be , take we close to a deficit of £ 1 . 3 billion . I agree with the Secretary of State when he say — I be sure with much thought — that Northern Ireland do not need the stick plaster of a one - off financial package . let I be very clear that not one person from my party , or anyone sensible from Northern Ireland , have suggest that what we need be a one - off , one - year sticking plaster to fix a problem that be of this Government ' s make . we be ask for a pragmatic and mature reflection on how much it cost to deliver Northern Ireland ' s public service , and to get on with recalibrate the Barnett formula to ensure that we can do so . that be what we need . that be not yet what we have . the choice will be there for a new Executive . the second most drastic thing that I think the Government have introduce into the debate be the notional view that we just need to get on and raise revenue . you have hear it , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Minister mention it this evening : a £ 27 billion budget for the forthcoming year . take household rate , the big household contribution to the public finance that individual make outside of tax and national insurance , with £ 1 . 7 billion raise each year . can we honestly imagine indicate in a cost of live crisis to our public , business and wide society that they should double their domestic and non - domestic contribution to household rate ? double they would allow we to get close to where we need to be . no problem . by 2025 , we will have £ 2 , 000 less than every household in England , but add another £ 2 , 000 on , please , to stand still . get real . transformation ? I have an idea : let we raise money by increase tuition fee . that bring I back to when I reply to the hon . member for North Dorset about the choice that an Executive will have . we can not determine those , but in the past whenever people be say that there should be an increase in tuition fee it be for a beneficial outcome . increase tuition fee and we can get rid of the maximum student number cap . increase tuition fee and we will be able to fund more place so that our good and bright will no long have to leave Northern Ireland to be educate in England , Scotland and Wales , or anywhere else in the world . those be positive benefit from an increase in tuition fee , yet it be never politically acceptable . now what be on offer be just raise the cost to stand still , or to provide public service when we know that what we get be not sufficient to match the need . nobody be ask for a stick plaster . nobody can say what the choice shall be . I do not intend to speak for as long as I have , and I want to let other people contribute , but here we be again , with the second budget Bill of the year and the same challenge . it be progress at least that on 5 July the Deputy Prime Minister accept for the first time , in response to a question from my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , our party leader , that finance in Northern Ireland need to be predicate on need . that be the first time that we have hear that . have be dismiss and ignore in January , we have acceptance of it in July . yet the challenge be there for the rest of the financial year . the punishment budget that have be outline and be be advance this evening will continue to cripple the effective delivery of public service in Northern Ireland . I have hear nothing from the Northern Ireland Office , or from anyone else around Government , to suggest that they be in the space of turn that around within this financial year . we be halfway through it . we want to see political progress , but the idea that we get political progress only for an incoming executive to falter because they can not deliver for the people would be the big crime of all . at the outset , may I join in pay tribute to the outgoing shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , and in welcome to his new role the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) ? we be go to miss he on the UK Trade and Business Commission , on which he have have a very keen interest in recent year in Northern Ireland and the fallout on it from Brexit , which have have major ripple effect through our politic — not least , as we can hear this evening , on the subject of this debate . it be six week on from Second Reading and it be fair to say that the situation in our politic have not improve . there be no sign of any return to devolution ; indeed , the response from the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) to the Minister of State illustrate the lack of realism about the choice that face we collectively in Northern Ireland , and the choice that face Unionism in ensure that Northern Ireland work for everyone . that be in everyone ' s interest , not least the interest of Unionists . with the public finance , I would argue that the situation be indeed much bad than it be six week ago , because the Northern Ireland budget be on an unsustainable trajectory . the budget that be set , as other have say , be not sufficient — it be inadequate — but there be a second layer to this , because the guidance to civil servant in the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc ) Act 2022 do not allow they to take the decision necessary to live within the measly budget that have be grant . as the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have say , we already have a situation where it be project that Northern Ireland will overspend by at least £ 500 million , which be great than the overspend from the last financial year . that be more than £ 500 million of public pay pressure before Northern Ireland can even have parity with the settlement that have take place elsewhere in the United Kingdom . something be go to have to give . either an Executive come in with a financial package and can begin to address some of those pressure , or the Government be essentially go to take it on the chin and accept that Northern Ireland will overspend . that beg the question of what will happen with that overspend in future year . will it be an albatross around our neck for year to come ? will people be expect to make cut , or will the Government make cut in - year to try to balance the budget ? I would suggest that try to do that in - year be now impossible , not least because so much of our budget be link to salary . we would lose people , and even if we do we would have to have redundancy payment for they . the only way anyone could possibly balance the budget at this stage be through stop service completely , which be utterly inconceivable and untenable . the point have be make that the budget situation be bad and will always be bad , and that have an Executive do not make any difference in that regard . I be not suggest for one minute that a restore executive will be a silver bullet , but I suggest to my colleague who perhaps be dismiss the relevance of devolution at this point that every single stakeholder , when they be ask to comment on the budget crisis , stand up and say , " we want to see an Executive in place . " whether we be talk about healthcare professional or people who work in the education sector , the business community or the voluntary community sector , all of they be say with one voice , " while it be no magic solution , we do want to see the Executive back in place . " that reference to a restore Executive lead I on neatly to the point I really want to stress regard a financial package : we need to see a twin - pronged approach to address Northern Ireland ' s financial need . of course we need to address the lack of financial parity and the fact that Northern Ireland be not fund base on need . there be a structural problem of underfunding there , so thing be not more generous in Northern Ireland than elsewhere . I want to pick up on the comment make by the Secretary of State at the weekend to the british - Irish Association in Oxford . the conference be hold under Chatham House rule , but I want to comment on what be in the public domain , as release by the Northern Ireland Office itself . in that speech , the Secretary of State be very negative about the concept of a financial package . he talk about money be throw at Northern Ireland and executive have squander financial package in the past — and there might be an element of truth to that . he say that the Executive need to stand on their own two foot — and , again , that be a worthy aspiration . but I stress that the notion that Northern Ireland can run a balanced budget , invest in public service and drive the economy from a burn platform will never happen . we will see more cut flow from budget cut , and we will end up with decline and more decline . we will end up in a downward spiral in which Northern Ireland become ever more dependent , and we will see activity stop and more and more young people leave . that be not the future that I hear the Government articulate in their vision for a prosperous society in Northern Ireland , but what they be do in term of the budget belie their very worthy aspiration . I ask the Minister of State or the Secretary of State to clarify in wind up that something will potentially be on offer when we seek a financial package . I appreciate that that be something that the Government may wish to do solely in the context of a restore executive rather than up front , but it be important for any financial package to be base around transformation , a proper strategic plan and a programme for government for a restore Executive . that Executive must have clear target and milestone , and a very clear idea as to how investment can turn Northern Ireland around . that be something on which a restore Executive can work in partnership . the hon . Gentleman have just hit the nail on the head : a restore Executive could work in partnership with the Government . but I just emphasise to he that the sum available in this budget be the same as would have be provide be an Executive in place . just to take far his point about reform and so on , he will know that since 2014 , we have put £ 7 billion into Northern Ireland on top of the block grant . various commitment to reform have be give in different agreement over the year on various front , include education , but it have not happen . I think we be all now get to a point where we be terribly frustrated on all those front . he have hit the nail on the head : we need a restore Executive and then to work in a positive way together to make Northern Ireland function for its people , and that be what we be very willing to do . I be very grateful to the Minister of State for his comment . I largely agree with he , but I will point to a certain disagreement on some aspect . I fully recognise that there have be past financial package and problem with reform not be fully realise , particularly around integrated education , which be a clear example . we have to do well in that respect . from where we be , I do not see any alternative to try to do that once again and learn the lesson from what happen in the past . I recognise that we have see additional funding package from the UK Government — obviously , we have a major uplift in support to deal with covid and its side effect on the economy , and that support be very welcome — but the fact be , as other member have say , that our expenditure per head be not base on our need , and that fundamental point have to be recognise . I think it be helpful to emphasise at this point that , although the Minister indicate that this budget be exactly what an Executive would have be allocate be they in place , last year it be £ 322 million less than what an Executive would have need , this year it be £ 431 million less than what an Executive would have need , and the projection for next year be £ 458 million less . so in say what he say , have the Minister not confirm the real problem at the heart of this ? indeed . I think we be talk to two separate point in that regard . yes , the block grant would have be base on the current policy approach from the Government towards the Barnett formula and the assessment of need in Northern Ireland , but what we on these Benches be all say be that we need to reassess the whole basis of how that be reflect . that be a conversation to be have . I would also take the point a bit far by say that , if we have have an Executive in place , or indeed if we get an Executive in place shortly , that would be the form by which we could make this case much well to address both the fiscal squeeze and the negotiation on a financial package for Northern Ireland . to give a human flavour to the scale of the crisis face our society , I will close with one example of an area of crisis in Northern Ireland : special educational need . there be a real crisis happen in that regard : the funding available be not meet the level of need . as I think all member appreciate , this be one of the most sensitive area , and one where Government have a duty to invest in child and ensure that their right be properly protect . as we meet this evening , that be simply not the case in Northern Ireland . there be multiple failure to provide for child ; the academic year have now start , but score of young people still have not be allocate suitable special educational need place . that have a major toll on parent and family — mental health issue and financial and career pressure — and on the child themselves , particularly a lack of opportunity , health and safety issue , a risk of regression and a lack of social inclusion . I appeal to member , from whatever perspective we look at this — the Government in term of set the financial parameter , and also those who be still hold out for an Executive — that we need to get back to address those type of issue . that be what the coalface be like , and that be what we should be prioritise . we be approach tomorrow , so I will try not to detain the House too long with the comment I wish to make on this important Bill . at the outset I want to pay tribute , as other have , to the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , the former shadow Secretary of State , who have now move on to another post . he visit my constituency on more than one occasion and spend time with businesspeople and community leader there , which be much appreciated . it be very clear that he want to learn as much as he possibly could about Northern Ireland , and he use that information wisely and , on many occasion , powerfully in this House . I hope he continue to maintain that interest , particularly in the hydrogen technology that he look at in Northern Ireland , in his new role . I wish he all the very good . I also welcome the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) to his new post . he bring a level of gravity to the post , which be very important , and I wish he all the very good as well . I hope that , as a supporter of Leeds United , that bring we close to at least some extent . when the Minister of State open the debate this evening , he make it clear that he be put a budget in place — I think I quote he correctly — that would allow Northern Ireland Departments to continue to function . that be its purpose . of course , at some level those Departments will continue to function , but they will function on the most stingy budget Bill ever bring forward : a Bill that be a crisis point . whether there be direct rule , the current formation that we have , or a devolved Assembly operate , the current budget be inadequate . it be a disaster for many of the Departments in Northern Ireland , and it will not allow government to function , or to function normally . many of those Departments have be cut to the bare bone with regard to what they will be expect to deliver . what lie at the heart of this budget Bill ? of course , it be a fundamental unfairness . it be unfair in term of the budget allocation ; the formula , or the definition of need , that have be use in relation to Northern Ireland ; and the outcome that it will have for the people of Northern Ireland , irrespective of their political or other identity . this be a grossly unfair budget , and it will impact harshly on the people of Northern Ireland . it have be describe as a " punishment budget " , and I say frankly to the Secretary of State , his Minister and his team that I think it be design to be a punishment budget — to punish Northern Ireland because of political circumstance . if the Government be make an argument tonight that they want an Assembly back , this be a very strange way to go about it , because they be basically say to the political class in Northern Ireland , " if you go into the Assembly and you try to run it on this pinching , stingy budget , you will deliver to the people of Northern Ireland a disastrous arrangement . " it be no encouragement whatsoever to politician to go into the Assembly on that one narrow point of the budget . of course , my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) have outline much more detailed reason as to why unionist would not go back into the Assembly on the current arrangement until issue around the Windsor framework and the protocol be resolve . if ever we need leadership from the Government that lead to decisive outcome , it would not be this stunt budget that have be pull in Northern Ireland . it be a pathetic excuse for a budget , and it will damage the opportunity to try to build well relationship not only within this House , but across Northern Ireland . the Government would not dare bring forward these sort of arrangement for any other part of the United Kingdom — they simply would not dare and they would not have the affront to do it — and it be appal that they be do that for this part of the kingdom , Northern Ireland . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) rightly identify that , if we be go to raise more revenue opportunity and invest in the public service , we need resource to do that . I notice that , in our newspaper every day , there be threat that the Northern Ireland Secretary be go to introduce water charge . I have hear this before . when I speak to the head of Northern Ireland Water , she tell I that , to get we back to an even keel in Northern Ireland with regard to the infrastructure of our water service , we need to invest about £ 2 billion . that be just to get it back to a level playing field and to a state where we could charge people for the water service . be the Government propose to put that sort of investment into the process , or be they just say , " no , we ' ll bring in water charge " ? it be impossible to bring in water charge and well the Secretary of State know it . just look at the cut that be be propose . the shadow Secretary of State rightly identify the problem to do with the concrete in school across Northern Ireland , yet the education budget be be give the single large kicking by the Government . its budget be go to be down by 2 . 7 % . if there be a crisis identify in the school ' structure — another crisis in the school ' structure — they just will not have the resource or the capability to resolve that , and we be go to see a major funding crisis there . justice funding be down by 1 . 5 % ; I will come to some more point about that in a moment . of course , the Department for the Economy funding be down by nearly 1 % and this come in the jaw of the great economic conference the Government be hold in a matter of seven or eight day in Northern Ireland . they be go to invite investor from all over the world and to say , " come and invest in Northern Ireland — by the way , we have decide to cut the budget of the Department for the Economy , and we have decide to cut the budget for education and for other part of Northern Ireland " . what sort of a message be that go to send to potential investor ? if the Secretary of State have to try to sell these issue to outside investor whenever they decide to cut the budget , I certainly would not want to be a Northern Ireland - base devolved Minister try to make that point . thankfully , the hon . Gentleman be not write the speech for the investment conference next week because , if he be , it would not be very successful . what he know and I know — and any of we in this House know who know Northern Ireland — be that it have an amazing , vibrant private sector with terrific entrepreneur , who be incredibly well ground in place , care about their community , and care about make a profit justly while take care of the environment . they be amazing , inspire people who can succeed if they be provide with the right capital . if anything , what we be try to do here , on the point he make , be to make sure that the very poor quality politic of Northern Ireland end up match the very high quality of the private sector . if we could pull that off , Northern Ireland would soar . I thank the Minister , but I be once tell , " if you throw a stone among a pack of dog , the one that yell the loud have be hit the hard . " I think that point maybe hit the Minister just a little bit this evening in that he know that to say to investor , " by the way , we ' ve cut the budget " , be not actually a good look for the Minister . I want to turn to the issue of the cut to the Department of Justice funding ; it be down by 1 . 5 % . we all know that the morale of the police be at an all - time low . the issue of police pay for probationer have be raise in this House . it be very difficult to encourage young and newly qualified police officer that what they be do be worth while . that be because the Department of Justice be go to be face with another cut . we have have the drama in recent week of the data breach . Police on the database have , shockingly , be give advice that they should remove themselves from the electoral register . that be one of the way in which they can now protect themselves , undermine the democratic process for they and their family . the integrity of the MI5 officer who work in Northern Ireland have be undermine . that have a massive cost not just economically and politically , but to our security . of course today there have be the loss of the Chief Constable , who decide to make decision at the behest of Sinn F é in ; rightly , he have have to resign . who can calculate at this point what the cost of this will be , not just economically but to police and to resolve that problem ? I be disappointed that today the Secretary of State hedge his bet on who will pay the cost of the data breach ; compensation will run into ten of million of pound . with Department of Justice funding cut by 1 . 5 % , it be impossible to take that level of cost from that Department . the Secretary of State know that he must do well , that this be not a good budget and that it will hit some of the Departments in Northern Ireland that mean the most the hard . Northern Ireland ' s big industry and single large employer still today be agrifood , make good - quality , tasty food . it do so not just for the people of Northern Ireland : the 30 , 000 or so farm in Northern Ireland make food and feed about 17 million people here in the rest of the United Kingdom . that sector of our economy be face problem because that industry be about to have its veterinary medicine violate by this Government . under the Windsor framework , the problem face our farm be come at they at 100 mph . over 50 % of our medicine for that sector be go to be deny and the UK Government say , " we be in discussion to resolve this issue . " the fact of the matter be that Europe have make it very clear that those discussion be over , yet the Government still think they can solve that . that crisis be come too and the Government will need to resolve it and do so very soon . I hope that they do . I hope that they actually listen to these point , instead of get tetchy about they , and recognise that the threat they have cause to the people of Northern Ireland by such a stingy , nasty budget , in such a procrastinating manner , be not serve the purpose of get Government back into Northern Ireland , but be put we far into the doldrum . the hour be late so I will cut to the chase , but I think it be worth underline the view outline by those from the Front Bench on both side that the good way to resolve the issue and debate around the Northern Ireland budget will be if the Executive be meet . it be a terrible shame that we be still debate and set the budget here . that be not something the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland should be do and I be very concerned that the situation continue . I rise because of my particular interest as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee in the UK in the oversight and investigation of the Northern Ireland Audit Office in make sure the money allocate to the Northern Ireland Office and Departments in Northern Ireland be properly scrutinise . I appreciate the Minister take time to meet I to discuss this because , without the Executive and Assembly in place , there be no real scrutiny of these budget and it be the Northern Ireland Audit Office that have that particular role . it be important , therefore , and I remain disappointed that its funding be not where it should be . I know that the amendment be not select , but the Minister be talk to the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , and the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , about the proposal that the Northern Ireland Assembly Audit Committee may continue to exercise its power even without an Executive . if that be something the Government be willing to discuss , I will be interested in be involve in those discussion . I can see a number of constitutional challenge on this , even within the context of Northern Ireland , let alone across the UK , but we need further scrutiny if we be go to live through this limbo . I reflect the point of my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) , who I be delighted to see on the Front Bench in the shadow Secretary of State role , that the Government need a well plan . within this limbo , we have this inadequate position with the Secretary of State . however brilliant any Secretary of State be , they should not be make these decision directly , and I be pretty sure that the Secretary of State agree with I on that , yet we do not have any plan or pathway to get the Executive back . it be down to the party here present and not present ultimately to do that , but the Secretary of State need to consider that . I be concerned about the trajectory for support for audit in Northern Ireland , and I hope that the Northern Ireland Audit Office can do the good it can with the money it have and perhaps prove its worth to the Secretary of State for future budget settlement . I hope we be not here in a year ' s time and that we have an Executive up and run that will be make these decision for themselves . I add my comment about the outgoing shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) , and congratulate the incoming shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) . I wish he all the good ; he would be most welcome in the Upper Bann constituency — the premier constituency in Northern Ireland — in the come week and month . the stark reality of the debate tonight be that the budget give to Northern Ireland Departments be not enough for the effective delivery of service in Northern Ireland . some £ 297 million be schedule to be take from our allocation this year and next . that be a huge chunk of the cake be take away , from a cake that be already too small to satisfy the appetite or demand of our public service . I be be continually contact , as I know be colleague on these Benches , by constituent who be feel the full effect of this harsh budget and the reality of our underfunded service : of health service waiting list , crumble school estate and scrap road plan . while the physical infrastructure need of our service be vast , so too be the even great need of an even great asset : our public sector worker . they ask for equality in pay , yet this Government refuse to give it . some £ 575 million for public sector pay award be need , yet the cake be be cut and not make big to award people what they deserve . the line that the Government can not step in to deal with this matter do not wash with I or the public in Northern Ireland . if the Government want to do something , we see that they go and do it ; we only have to look at the track record around the implementation of abortion in Northern Ireland against the will of the vast majority of people in Northern Ireland , or the relationship and sex education guideline that have be foist on the people of Northern Ireland without any consultation . frankly , they be out of step with the value that the vast majority of parent want to instil in their child . the Government should not come at we with this line that " the Government can not act " , when they can on other issue where there be very clear opposition in Northern Ireland . when and if the Government want to do something , they do it , yet we see a lack of enthusiasm to deal with the issue that be keep the door of Stormont lock . we hear much from the Government that , if Stormont be back up and run , we could deal with the issue , yet they peddle false hope to those await healthcare intervention and raise expectation among our public sector workforce about their deserved pay rise when there simply be not enough money to deliver such increase . our party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , have say time and again that this party deal in reality . those be the political and constitutional reality create by the protocol and Windsor framework , the economic reality create by the same , and the public reality that unionist people have withdraw their consent for the devolved institution until their concern be deal with and our place within our Union be restore . sadly , there be those who seek to lay blame for all ill at my party ' s foot , yet it be they who be exacerbate the situation by refuse to address the genuine concern of the Unionist community and , indeed , the continue difficulty face by many business as a result of the Windsor framework and the protocol . we want a solution that bring a firm foundation for the restoration of Stormont . we want a solution that bring firm political and financial foundation , which will be the key to the impact that any new Executive will have . Underfunding can not continue . we need transformational money and money base on the need of our change society . next year — I will reiterate the figure that we have already hear — public spending in Northern Ireland will increase by 3 . 6 % , but in England it will increase by 6 % . how be that fair on my constituent in Upper Bann ? my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make a significant contribution on the budget need and the transformation of the Barnett formula to a needs - base formula . it be time for the Government to act . the people of Northern Ireland — people of this United Kingdom — deserve it . we in Northern Ireland deserve as much as those in England be get . I implore the Government to do what be right and get a political and financial solution that will allow Stormont to be restore and get up and run , with decision make in Stormont . I welcome my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) to his new role . it should be the concern of the whole House that a Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , rather than a Minister of Finance in Stormont , be deliver yet another budget for Northern Ireland . this have be happen for far too long . it should concern we , because it reflect a peace process that have become increasingly precarious . I be a member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , which since February have be inquire into the funding and delivery of public service in the north of Ireland . we have receive evidence from a wide range of stakeholder throughout Northern Ireland . we have focus on the financial situation in area such as education and health , and how the lack of a function Executive in Stormont be affect those public service . to be clear , these be my view and not those of the Committee as a whole . my personal view be that the absence of an Executive in the north of Ireland , couple with an austerity budget from Westminster , be a toxic mix , both politically and socially . for instance , we hear from the British Medical Association in Northern Ireland that health service be operate in " crisis mode " , which have take its toll both on patient and on worker . underlie that be a " crumble estate , with spiral maintenance cost " . the Royal College of Nursing argue : " the health and social care system … be now beyond the point of crisis and be … visibly collapse . " it argue that that be due to " year of systematic under - funding " , compound by the absence of accountability and leadership in Stormont . in addition , the Royal College of Surgeons have state that one in four people in Northern Ireland be on a waiting list , either for a first - time appointment with a consultant or for surgery or treatment . the health and social care system need stability , much like it do in Britain . prevention be always well than cure . in one evidence session , I ask health professional whether a significant cash injection now would reduce cost down the line . austerity be never the cheap option ; it always lead to high cost . I just wish the Government would realise that . I want to touch on the impact on education , where , as with health , it be unacceptable that cut be be make . a report in June entitle " the Consequences of the cut to Education for Children and Young People in Northern Ireland " argue that " cut will increase poverty , widen exist educational achievement gap " and " far exacerbate " the mental health crisis in Northern Ireland . like the healthcare system , as we have hear , special educational need provision be beyond the brink . there be also a constitutional issue . my colleague in the Social Democratic and Labour party have call on the British Government to consult the irish Government on provision for this budget as a plan b . that be a very sensible argument , although it be quite surprising that the British Government have not already attempt it . we can not forget the vital role that the Irish Government play in the peace process . we should not forgo their advice , assistance , guidance and institutional knowledge . in addition , the pressure on civil servant in Northern Ireland must be comment on . they be work in an extremely difficult environment , and we must recognise that there be unintended consequence . civil servant be between a rock and hard place . the guidance state that some decision should not be take by civil servant , but without an Executive , those decision must be make . as PCS Northern Ireland have argue , how can civil servant do their job effectively when they be worry about put food on the table for their family ? underlie all this be a lack of democratic accountability . at the risk of make an obvious point , it be political party who be elect in the May election , not civil servant . if there be no Executive , who will fill those leadership role in the community ? we have hear in the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee that , sadly , some of those role be already be fill by criminal gang and paramilitary . those gang be prey on vulnerable people , especially woman in deprive community . they know that there be an absence of statutory childcare , which be a huge barrier to woman attain employment . those gang be exploit poverty . when people have not be able to pay their loan , for instance , they have be force into transport drug and prostitution . it be a case of austerity affect service , and a deadlock affect leadership , lead to crack in civil society that demand our attention right now . we need the Executive back . to that extent , I must say to the Democratic Unionist party to honour the first word of its name . this boycott be do real harm . everyone can see it . I suspect it be not what their constituent want to see . nothing can be achieve in this deadlock ; it only wear people down . but we can achieve something work together . I will never forget the demonstration of cross - party unity that bring peace to an island that mean so much to I , my family and so many people in my constituency and beyond . it would be a tragedy if that the spirit of co - operation be consign to the history book . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be good to see that you and I be the Duracell battery of Westminster ; we keep go when other be start to lag . what a pleasure it be to speak on this issue today . yet again , I come to the House to ask for fairness and equitable treatment for Northern Ireland . I ask for it to be treat and fund the way that Wales be , for the sake of my constituent and all other constituent in Northern Ireland . I ask for our school to be able to pay for their teacher ' pay rise and for toiletry in school facility . I ask for a budget that can address the waiting list for hip replacement , and for vital roadwork to be carry out , to provide the bare minimum standard of infrastructure and connectivity . I ask the Secretary of State respectfully to advocate work with we and for the betterment of everyone in Northern Ireland . I believe we can do that together if we all commit to that process . the people of Ballynahinch and the surround area in my constituency of Strangford have be wait my entire tenure — I have be an MP since 2010 — and long before that for the promise Ballynahinch bypass , which have be defer yet again . along with my MLA colleague Michelle McIlveen and Harry Harvey , I hope to meet the Department for Infrastructure on 6 October to discuss that very issue . it have be on the book for 45 year . and should the hon . member for South Down ( Chris Hazzard ) ever decide to take his seat in this place and do his job here , he would be advocate for the same thing : for the funding to be allocate for this vital piece of work . not to be blunt , but any claim that work can be carry out in whatever way the Department see fit do not cut it when the current budget do not cover the cost for road to be resurface , never mind major capital project . let we be truthful here : the budget allocation for road be inadequate . on a slightly more positive note , I highlight Ardglass harbour as a Northern Ireland fishing industry success story . however , the fact be that if we be to build on that success and accommodate the next generation of fishing boat , the harbour need to be deepen . Kilkeel be also well place to be a hub for the offshore energy industry . investment there will see Northern Ireland capitalise on our grow blue economy . the fishing and seafood development programme of the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs recommend investment in all three harbour , and that take funding . I be delighted to report that funding have be secure for both an enhanced training centre and an improved slipway in Portavogie in my constituency of Strangford . we can build on that and do more . we should have aspiration to grow a powerhouse of a blue economy . portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel give we the building block , and the FSDP recommendation give we the tool . what we now need be to add a further budget that have the appetite and ambition to match that of our coastal community , and that empower they to meet the next generation of opportunity in the Irish sea and beyond . we need funding for school to deal with the substantial rise in special need assessment and support . the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) refer to that and he be absolutely right . every one of we in this House know that special need education be under incredible pressure . funding be need to create sensory room , whose enhancement will give child the opportunity to excel . I have meet they in many of the school in my constituency , and I recognise that that be something we should all sign up to . I sign up to the vision for school that be operate on the mainland , but I would like our child to be treat the same way as child here and to have the same option . that be not the case because while spend per head be more , so be cost and so be need . policy that impact on how our child be teach about religion and sexual issue should not be implement without a mechanism and space to consult board of governor or without the opportunity to implement normal practice . let I be clear : parent and teacher do not consent or comply , and that will be make clear in the day to come . there be a rally where a large group of people come together with some of their elect representative to make that point . I conclude with this , because I be very conscious of the long hour . I say this to the Secretary of State and the Minister of State : please , in the interest of fairness and equity , work with we to make change to the framework that allow we to do what we want to do , which be to take our seat and for our colleague to be in a work Assembly , with a fit - for - purpose budget and change in place . that be not only in our hand ; it be in the hand of the Government , the Secretary of State , the Minister of State , the Brexit Minister and the Prime Minister . do the right thing and start to take that action , so we can move forward together in a positive fashion . I call the Minister . with the leave of the House , Mr Speaker , give that I make a number of intervention during the debate , and give the late hour and a desire not to repeat argument that we advance on Second Reading , I think I should just say , " I beg to move . " question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . education , Employment and Training : Young People Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) it be a huge pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Speaker , and thank you very much for grant this debate . it be now midnight , and I be not sure that I have ever have the privilege of address the House at such an early hour , but it be always a privilege to stand up and speak out on behalf of my constituent . I welcome my right hon . friend , and good friend , the Minister to his place . he have be devote to promote both his constituency of Harlow and educational opportunity ever since he come to the House , not least through his previous superb chairmanship of the Education Committee . now in his second iteration as Minister for Skills , he stand out as a Minister who be very much a round peg in a round hole , and we be lucky to have he . education , employment and training for young people be a hugely important issue for both our country and local resident in the constituency that I have the huge privilege of represent . I be alarmed to discover recently that some 788 , 000 16 to 24 - year - old be not in education , employment or training — which seem to I to be a very large number — and that although the overall unemployment rate in my constituency , at 3 . 6 % , be below the national average of 3 . 7 % , 420 18 to 24 - year - old be without work and the youth unemployment rate be 6 . 2 % , while the national average be 4 . 7 % . those young people who be not in education , employment or training be frequently refer to as neet . I be alarmed to be inform that 57 % of neet be young people who have previously be in some form of care setting , and that many of these young people will also have leave their school or college without gain GCSE qualification at level 5 or above in the basic of English and math . those be uncomfortable and disappointing statistic , and as a country we can and must do well if we be to give all our young people a good start to their adult life . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I should be honour and delight to do so . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . he have always bring good subject to the House , and tonight , after midnight , he be do so again . it will be know throughout the House that I be a keen supporter of apprenticeship programme for young people , which provide an excellent opportunity for those who want to take up a trade and go straight into the world of work , as oppose to further study at university . South Eastern Regional College — SERC — in my town of Newtownards do a fantastic job in support young people through that transition . do the hon . Gentleman agree that more need to be do to ensure that apprentice be pay equally and fairly , and that the good way we can show that their work and contribution to society be value be to give they money for what they do by the sweat of their brow ? the hon . Gentleman make an extremely good point . the Government be do good work with a - level , t - level and apprenticeship , but 788 , 000 young people be fall through the net . the purpose of this debate be to highlight that number and encourage the Minister to tell the House what the Government be go to do about it . young people in this country should be encourage to be in good - quality education , training or employment and to enjoy the right to fulfil their potential , whatever and wherever that may be . the good news for Kettering be that we be fortunate enough to have — base in Station Road , near the heart of the town centre and the railway station itself — a wonderful organisation call Youth Employment UK , which be establish and be lead by its enthusiastic , talented and inspirational chief executive , Laura - Jane Rawlings , know to all as " LJ " . she be ably assist by Joshua Knight , the senior policy and research lead , and a hard - work staff of 14 . Youth Employment UK be a national , not - for - profit organisation that be set up in 2012 with a focus on tackle youth unemployment . fund not by the taxpayer but by an expand membership of enlighten employer , in the last 10 year it have become one of the lead expert on youth employment , and an active partner to Departments include the Departments for Education and for work and Pensions . last Thursday , 31 August , I meet the Youth Employment UK team at their Kettering HQ , together with Robin Webber - Jones , the Northamptonshire principal of Tresham College , which be part of the Bedford College Group , and Councillor Scott Edwards , the portfolio holder for education at North Northamptonshire Council , to explore how the promotion of youth employment , education and training might well be advance at both national and local level . from that meeting , it be clear to see Youth Employment UK ' s expertise and commitment to all young people across the UK , and I commend Youth Employment UK to the Minister . in this debate , I have four ask of the Minister , please . first , will he be kind enough to visit Kettering to meet I and representative of Youth Employment UK , Tresham College and North Northamptonshire Council to discuss the local and national challenge of youth education , employment and training ? secondly , will he ensure that while the government raise the ambition for young people to achieve a - level , t - level and quality apprenticeship — which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have just highlight — group of young people be not leave behind ? thirdly , will he expand ambition and support for young people and create a neet strategy with a commitment to reduce the neet rate — a strategy that must focus on both reduction and prevention ? fourthly , will he commit to ensure that all employer be work to the good youth employment standard , drive up the quality and volume of job opportunity for young people ? Youth Employment UK be home to the national youth voice census , an annual survey that explore with young people age 11 to 30 what be and be not work for they on their journey to work . I know that the Department for Education already welcome this annual survey and be already use it as a tool to help shape and inform its policy work . the 2022 report be download more than 70 , 000 time . it have be reference in a number of Government report and receive local , national and international coverage . on 14 September , in just 10 day ' time — nine day ' time now — Youth Employment UK will launch this year ' s finding , and as I have be privy to some early insight from the team , I can give the Minister a sneak peek into some of its finding . this year ' s survey make it clear that in 2023 , young people need more support and more help from the system around they . young people across the UK have share their lack of confidence about their future and next step , tell Youth Employment UK in their thousand about the disconnect they feel in their community . the future be feel more uncertain for young people than in many previous year . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important debate . the subject of skill development and the improvement of people within employment be close to my own heart . do he recognise that there be a disparity in how this policy play out across the whole of the United Kingdom ? for example , the apprenticeship levy be collect in Northern Ireland but it be not allocate to apprenticeship there , so we be tax but the levy be not available . secondly , we export one third of all our student in Northern Ireland to GB , but they rarely come back . that have to be fix . the hon . Member make some extremely good point . it do not seem right that the situation he describe should be as it be . perhaps the Minister , in his response , will be able to give the Government ' s response to those important issue . I shall be in touch with representative of Youth Employment UK , who will be interested in Northern Ireland , and I will ask if they would be kind enough to contact the hon . member ' s office to see whether this could be explore far . the key finding and recommendation from this year ' s youth voice census will provide we all with a clear understanding of the issue that young people be face in our constituency , in our school and as they enter the workforce . this should be a call to all of we , and in particular to the Government , to make a commitment to understand what young people really need in order to feel confident about their future . the Government ' s plan for education be a strong one , streamline qualification and ensure parity of esteem between vocational pathway and university . in order to support future - ready young people who have the skill require to build our future workforce , we have to hear the voice and expertise of all type of employer and more varied group of young people . individual circumstance will likely be the big factor in a successful next - step transition and , of course , not all young people have the same starting point . pathway and programme must be design to be accessible and flexible enough to benefit all young people . we therefore must be sure , at both national and local level , that young people will not be leave behind by any education reform plan . I be delighted that Youth Employment UK be lead a commission on the reform that have be introduce and will be case - study a number of local area , include Kettering , to see what the reality of education reform mean for young people and their personal situation and aspiration . I hope these case study , when publish , will be a useful moment for my right hon . friend the Minister to assure we that there be ladder of opportunity available to every young person , everywhere . while my right hon . friend be develop future education and training pathway , I hope he will have a particularly keen eye on the action require to support those 788 , 000 young people who be currently neet . through its work as the secretariat to the all - party parliamentary group on youth employment , Youth Employment UK be stress the need for the Government to make a guarantee to young people that there will always be a quality opportunity for they and that the Government will level up the system around support and promote young people . in its 2022 report , produce with PricewaterhouseCoopers , the Youth Futures Foundation , which be a beneficiary of dormant asset funding , identify that bring our neet rate down to that of our german friend would benefit UK gdp by as much as £ 38 billion . it must therefore be a matter of utmost importance to the government that we have a neet strategy focus not only on reduction , but on prevention too . I be delighted to advise my right hon . friend that Youth Employment UK be commission by the Careers & Enterprise Company to write a paper on NEET prevention and reduction , and that the paper and its recommendation be available to the Department for Education . in addition , Youth Employment UK have co - produce a young person ' s guarantee along with the Prince ' s Trust , the Youth Futures Foundation , the Institute for Employment Studies , Impetus and the Learning and Work Institute as co - chair of the Youth Employment Group , which will be sure to add value to the DFE and other Government Departments in their effort to tackle youth unemployment . over the last 10 year , Youth Employment UK have be provide free skill and career information to young people age 11 to 30 . its superb website , which I have see and which I encourage my right hon . friend to view for himself , be an encyclopaedia of information , inspiration and advice for young people . I be impressed to see on my visit to Youth Employment UK ' s headquarters that the website be power by young people themselves , as Youth Employment UK be an excellent employer of young apprentice . the website help more than 200 , 000 young people a month , or 2 . 4 million a year , to understand all their option and pathway , and how to navigate and prepare for the world around they as it change . I be sure my right hon . friend will join I in congratulate Youth Employment UK on this valuable work . instrumental to the role that Youth Employment UK play be its work with employer . employer be key to tackle youth unemployment and to create the experience and opportunity that young people need to move on in the world with confidence . by understand young people , Youth Employment UK be able to advise and support employer to create quality and inclusive opportunity for young people . Youth Employment UK have create the good youth employment standard and have more than 1 , 000 employer in its membership that be lead the way in drive up good youth employment standard and opportunity . employer such as Coca - Cola Europacific Partners , Pret a Manger , Sodexo , Haven , Severn Trent and Surrey County Council be among the many work with Youth Employment UK and invest in apprenticeship , t - level and inclusive recruitment for young people . as passionate as my right hon . friend be about t - level and their placement and apprenticeship for young people , I be sure he will agree that we need more employer to provide opportunity at a national , local and hyper - local level . I hope he will join the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , the Department for Work and Pensions , and these more than 1 , 000 employer in recognise the importance of the good youth employment standard and the work that Youth Employment UK do to drive quality and to connect young people to good employer . in closing , let I reiterate my four ask . will my right hon . friend be kind enough to visit Kettering ? will he ensure that while the government promote a - level , t - level and quality apprenticeship , group of young people be not leave behind ? will he create a strategy to reduce the number of young people be or become neet , and to prevent it from happen ? will he ensure that all employer be work to the good youth employment standard ? thank you , Mr Speaker , for your indulgence at this early hour . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I heartily congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) , a real friend whom I have know for many year , on secure the debate . not only be he passionate about his constituency , but as he have show in his speech , he be passionate and knowledgeable about youth employment , skill , apprenticeship and much more besides . it be an honour for I to be able to respond to he in this debate . he be also a member of the all - party group on youth employment , and he want young people to acquire the education and skill they need in Kettering . he be absolutely right about that , and he write to I about it before the summer . I welcome the debate , because I share that passion . let I answer the first of his point by say that I will be delighted to visit my hon . friend ' s local college and meet Youth Employment UK , perhaps at the college . his second request be about career advice and support . everything we be try to do be to ensure that career advice be central to our young people , and I will go into detail about what we be do . my hon . friend ' s third point be about have a strategy for young people who be not employ or in training — I dislike the terrible word " NEET " , as there be nothing neat at all about be unemployed and not in education or training . not only be we work collaboratively with the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , and the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , in a cross - government youth forum , but we have a strategy in the Department . I be over the moon when my hon . friend the Member for Kettering mention the " ladder of opportunity " . everybody who know I know that I talk about that all the time , and that ladder have a real strategy to it ; it be not just a slogan . one pillar support that ladder be about strengthen high education and further education , and the other be about opportunity and social justice . the first rung of that ladder be career ; the second be quality qualification ; the third be championing apprenticeship and skill ; the fourth be lifelong learning ; and the fifth be job security and prosperity . that last one be the goal for everyone to get to at the top of that ladder . our Government bring people to the ladder and help they climb up every step of the way . that be the strategy , and there be a lot of detail to each part of the ladder . my hon . friend ' s fourth request be about the good employer standard . I have work previously with the Investors in People , which look at employer who encourage apprentice and skill . I have be look at the brilliant website of Youth Employment UK ; as he rightly mention , it be a Wikipedia of everything there be to know about youth employment . I will look at what it say and at the work of IIP to see whether there can be any collaboration there and with the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education . it be important to note that nationally the NEET figure for young people — 16 to 24 - year - old — in England have be low for several year . at the end of 2022 , the rate be 12 . 3 % ; it be down by nearly a quarter since 2010 . my hon . friend have share concern about the slightly high than average youth unemployment rate in his area among 18 to 24 - year - old , but there be some good news : just 2 . 6 % of 16 and 17 - year - old in the wide north Northamptonshire area , cover his constituency , be not in employment or training , and that be well below the national average of 5 . 2 % . nationally , age 16 and 17 not in employment or training rate be consistently low . in 2011 the figure be 6 . 6 % , but by the end of 2022 it be just 4 . 5 % . however , there be still a lot more to do , as my hon . Friend rightly highlight . the key thing that my hon . friend want to know be what we be do for young people in his area , and I be happy to provide that information . as he point out , the main fe provider in his constituency be Tresham College , part of the Beford College Group , which have 7 , 700 learner on 16 to 19 study . it boast a huge range of full - time , part - time , high education and apprenticeship provision , from science to business administration , from compute to care and childcare , and it be home to the prestigious training restaurant . there be a number of apprenticeship provider in Kettering . as an aside to the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , who ask about the apprenticeship levy , he will know that that be devolve to Northern Ireland . we devolve a portion of the national apprenticeship levy raise to all the devolved authority , and it be up to the devolved authority how they spend it . in fact , the devolve authority have more flexibility than exist in England ; in England the money have to be spend on apprentice , but the devolved authority have much wide discretion on how they spend it . I be happy to look at that and work with he on it . I hope to go to Northern Ireland soon to look at the ture scheme operate there , so I be happy to discuss with he and his colleague how we can make the apprenticeship system work well in Northern Ireland . my hon . friend the Member for Kettering will be pleased to know that there have be 11 , 220 apprenticeship start in Kettering since May 2010 , and there be 770 last year . there be great apprentice employer for young people in his area , such as Travis Perkins , Northampton Healthcare , Mercedes and AMG High Performance Powertrains , which produce Formula 1 engine . there be the Creating Tomorrow College , a specialist post - 16 institution that look after 16 to 25 - year - old with cognition and learn difficulty . I be sure my hon . friend be proud of that . we be make a huge investment in post - 16 education , benefit constituent in Kettering , in my constituency of Harlow and across the country with an additional £ 3 . 8 billion over this Parliament . we be improve the FE estate to the tune of £ 2 . 8 billion . we announce a £ 125 million boost to further education back in January , include £ 12 million for the Bedford College Group . we announce even more funding for young people ' s education : an extra £ 185 million in 2023 - 24 , and £ 285 million to come in 2024 - 25 . we invest over £ 7 billion during 2022 , to ensure that there be a place in education or training for every 16 to 18 - year - old who want one . by 2024 - 25 we will be spend £ 2 . 7 billion on apprenticeship . as I mention to my hon . friend , one of the pillar support the ladder of opportunity be social justice . skill education and training be fundamental to get those young people who be not in employment or training into work . I will briefly mention the three strand of social justice — place , privilege and prestige . Social justice be root in the place people come from — where they grow up , gain their education and find a job . we want to deliver for place that need a sustainable job and skill ecosystem . there be 31 primary and six secondary school in Kettering give a good education to young people . there be 38 employer - lead skill improvement plan across the country , work out what skill be need in the local area . my hon . friend ' s constituency fall within the south - east midland local skill improvement plan , bring together employer to make sure they fill the skill deficit as we need they to . previously , the strategic development fund award £ 1 . 25 million in revenue and £ 1 . 49 million in capital funding to south - east midland college . my hon . friend talk about career . we have the local career hub and we have do a lot of work on career , ensure that apprentice organisation go into school . we have now legislate — I push this through when I be Chair of the Education Committee — to ensure that school have to have at least six encounter with technical organisation , such as technical school , apprentice organisation and further education college . the apprenticeship support and knowledge programme be go around the country encourage young people to do apprenticeship and learn skill . my hon . friend will be pleased to learn that in the past year , in north Northamptonshire , 8 . 5 % of start be take up by those from minority background . my hon . friend talk about social justice quite a bit in his speech . we be invest £ 18 million in the support internship programme . I work hard to ensure that we could increase the care leaver ' s bursary , which use to be £ 1 , 000 . it be now £ 3 , 000 . a young person who have be in care can get a bursary to encourage they to do an apprenticeship . Prestige be incredibly important . my hon . Friend mention the german system . when it come to technical and vocational education , I would love for we to have the german , scandinavian , austrian or swiss education system in our country . that be what we be do with our t - level and our high technical qualification . some 390 , 000 technical award or technical certificate have be issue to student , which be an incredible achievement . then we have t - level at post - 16 . my hon . friend talk about expand work placement , and we have 18 t - level come on board from this year . we have more and more student do our world - class t - level programme , which be design by employer . that mean that student who do they will be likely to get good job . it be exciting that Tresham College be deliver t - level . we be strengthen further education , ensure that we be recruit excellent fe staff . we have brilliant further education college up and down our country , which do not get enough mention . we have introduce teach bursary scheme of up to £ 29 , 000 . we be get bespoke industry expert to get into FE teaching to share their skill with the next generation . we will have 21 institute of technology college , 12 of which have open so far , that will transform tertiary education in our country . they be teach t - level , high technical qualification and degree apprenticeship . they be all over the country and , with this collaboration of further education and high education , they will be the transformative institute of the future . my hon . Friend mention the Careers & Enterprise Company , which now partner with 70 % of school and college . in his own area , the south - east midland career hub engage with 26 education institution across north Northamptonshire , include nine school and college in Kettering . we know that where there be interaction with the career hub and the Careers & Enterprise Company we have few young people not in employment or training and more people learn skill , do apprenticeship or get good job , which my hon . friend and I both want to see . I should mention that on t - level , this year we have a pass rate of 90 . 5 % , with 69 . 2 % of student receive a merit or above . from this month , 18 t - level will be available at nearly 300 provider . we have the apprenticeship offering and the t - level offering , as well as the traditional academic offer . I mention that he have t - level be deliver in his local college and more in the pipeline . high technical qualification — level 4 and 5 — be be introduce as well . there will be 106 high technical qualification available from September 2023 , offer yet more choice . I have talk quite a bit about apprentice . we have now lift the cap for small business so that they can employ as many apprentice as they want . we pay employer and provider £ 1 , 000 each when they take on a 16 to 18 - year - old apprentice , and cover 100 % of small employer ' training cost for this cohort . it be our job right now to give young people the opportunity that they need so that they can climb the ladder of opportunity — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) . Recall of MPs Act 2015 : Member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West Text of notification receive by the Speaker on 1 August 2023 : I refer to the Recall Petition in respect of the Rutherglen and Hamilton West Constituency , which close at 5 pm yesterday , 31 July 2023 . I be now email to advise that the Count of signature have be conclude and the result be as follow : — the total number of valid signature to the petition be 11896 the total electorate be 81 , 123 the threshold of 10 % of electorate be 8113 the number of reject signing sheet on the ground of be unmarke be 37 therefore the threshold have be meet for the recall petition to be successful . Cleland Sneddon , Petition Officer