Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Spring Budget 2024 what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the spring Budget 2024 on Scotland . what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the spring Budget 2024 on Scotland . what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the spring Budget 2024 on Scotland . we have again see calamitous event in Scotland this week . however , I wish Humza Yousaf very well for the future . I always find he to be a very decent man to work with , and there be no doubt that he be deal a rotten hand . although I do not want to dwell unduly on the private grief of SNP Members , I very much hope that whoever become First Minister will work with we on the issue that really matter to people in Scotland , such as public service and our economy , and will not continue to obsess with independence . this government be take long - term decision to cut taxis for work people and to grow the economy . the spring Budget represent a significant milestone in the UK Government ' s levelling - up mission , with investment into Scotland burst through the £ 3 billion mark . in addition , the Scottish Government will benefit from a £ 295 million funding uplift through the Barnett formula for 2024 - 25 . the reality be that the Chancellor ' s regressive spring Budget leave the people of Scotland behind . in contrast , the SNP Scottish Government take the bold step of implement a progressive tax scheme . the Westminster establishment argue that Scotland ' s income tax rate would somehow cause people to leave the country . last week , however , it be reveal by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs that the opposite be true , with many more taxpayer move to Scotland than leave . will the Secretary of State join I in welcome this brilliant news and congratulate the Scottish Government on stand up for the people of Scotland ? the hon . Lady ' s point would be relevant if that report be not from 2018 - 19 , long before we enter into six tax band in Scotland , versus three in the rest of the UK . I absolutely do not agree with she . the Secretary of State mention levelling up , which be curious . we know that the Budget cut public service across the board and cut Scotland ' s capital funding , yet level up seem to benefit place such as the financial district of Canary Wharf , which have benefit by £ 16 , 000 per head . be he suggest that Scotland , but not other part of the UK , should accept austerity from this Government ? that be a ridiculous remark . the levelling - up agenda in Scotland have be fantastically successful , and there have be absolutely no austerity . the Scottish Government have receive a record block grant of £ 41 billion , the high since devolution begin . I be surprised that the SNP want to talk about the Budget , because the Scottish Government ' s Budget put taxis up and cut vital public service , so scot be actually pay more and get less . what utter nonsense . the hypocrisy of this Tory party , which be busy gaslighte the scottish public by complain about cut to capital spending while the Tory Government be busy cut 16 % , or £ 822 million , from the Scottish Government ' s capital block grant allocation , be quite astonishing . with Westminster hold Scotland back yet again , can the Secretary of State tell we , as Scotland ' s man in the Cabinet , whether he argue against these cut ? will he argue for the Scottish Parliament to have the ability to raise more capital borrowing to mitigate these savage Westminster cut and to help drive Scotland forward ? in the fiscal framework settlement , we make it very clear and agree with the Scottish Government that resource funding could be reallocate , if they so wish , from the record block grant into capital funding . that be what have happen . additionally , they have the ability to borrow £ 450 million , if require . I also begin by pass on my good wish to Humza Yousaf and his family . I always find he very personable in my dealing with he , although I disagree with virtually everything he have say or do as First Minister of Scotland , particularly put up taxis and deliver poor public service . be my right hon . friend aware that business in my constituency be struggle to recruit employee from other part of the United Kingdom because of the high tax rate in Scotland , which be damage our local economy ? my right hon . friend make a good point . I be well aware , as be business in Dumfries and Galloway , that have six tax band in Scotland but three in the rest of the UK be not the way to incentivise people to go to work in Scotland or even to relocate their business there . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on this International Workers ' day , May Day , Scottish Television journalist be strike for fair pay . I be sure the Secretary of State will join I in insist that STV get back around the table with its journalist to thrash out an acceptable deal . give all the news that be happen this week , we need they back on the television . I too pay tribute to the outgoing First Minister , Humza Yousaf . we may not have agree on everything , but his historic appointment mark a pivotal moment in our multicultural public life in Scotland , and I wish he and his family well for the future . the spring Budget be just another moment that expose the damage do by the chaos of the former Prime Minister ' s kamikaze Budget . the Secretary of State have be spin that it bring taxis down , but be it not the case that the tax burden in Scotland and across the rest of the UK continue to rise ? the Prime Minister now want to mirror his irresponsible predecessor with an unfunded £ 46 billion policy to get rid of national insurance altogether . the Secretary of State sit around the Cabinet table , so which one of these have they discuss to pay for this : pensioner , the NHS or income tax rise ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that the tax burden in Scotland be too high and rise , and people be pay more and get less . fortunately , the UK Government have take the decision to partially offset that , not through income tax cut but through national insurance cut , with 4p come off NI . to pick up on his last point , he be refer to an aspiration that this Government have . we have already reduce NI by 4p , a third , and we aspire to remove it altogether , because it be a tax on job . this be a £ 46 billion , unfunded aspiration , and the Secretary of State and the Government will not tell we where they will get the money from . Scotland be trap between two chaotic and fail government ; we have have three Prime Ministers , and we will have have three First Ministers , in as many year . all the while , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) think he be already the First Minister and call the shot , although he have be shoot himself firmly in the foot . what be abundantly clear to the people of Scotland be that neither the Scottish Government nor the UK Government be even interested in deliver the change that Scotland need . with neither Government want to let the people decide , will the Secretary of State tell the House who he think be most scared of a general election , the Tories or the Scottish National party ? we absolutely do not fear an election , whether for Holyrood or a general election . as I watch the nationalists implode again , I say , " bring it on . " I hear they say the same from a sedentary position . [ interruption . ] bring it on ! chap and chapesse over there , start polish up your cv . I call the SNP spokesperson . I , too , on behalf of the SNP group , put on record our sincere thank to Humza Yousaf for his public service over the month and year . I wish he , Nadia and the rest of his family all the good in their future . let I also observe that few people in Scotland will see our proceeding today as Scottish Television be currently black out because of a strike by tv journalist . I implore the management of STV to get back around the table with the National Union of Journalists , improve its pay offer and try to settle this dispute . the Budget that be approve a few month ago also contain forward planning assumption on income and expenditure over the next three to five year . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of those assumption on the scottish public finance ? as I have say before , we have a record block grant . it be run over a three - year period and it average out at £ 41 . 6 billion , and then there be Barnett consequential add to that . this year , that figure be £ 295 million , base on the spring Budget ' s figure . that sound like no assessment at all have be make . the truth be that , accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , these forward planning assumption involve public service cut of up to £ 20 billion . that can only imply savage cut to the scottish block grant in the next two to three year . sadly , these planning assumption and the framework be endorse by the Labour party . so if people vote either Conservative or Labour at the come election , be they not consent to massive cut in public service in Scotland ? of course I do not agree with those figure . public service in Scotland be in a desperate state . in their recent Budget , the Scottish Government freeze council tax , thereby put more pressure on local authority to deliver those public service . defence Spending what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on the level of defence spending in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on the level of defence spending in Scotland . Scotland Office Ministers have regular discussion with the Ministry of Defence on all matter relate to defence . defence spending contribute significantly to deliver thousand of high - skilled job and investment in Scotland . I welcome the announcement by the Prime Minister that we will increase our defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp in response to rise global threat . clearly it be good news for the United Kingdom , and Scotland in particular , that 2 . 5 % of GDP will be spend on defence . will my right hon . friend update the House on the number of job that will be protect and potentially be create in Scotland as a result of this decision ? the short answer be that the increase investment announce by the Prime Minister will be focus on fire up the UK industrial base . the whole United Kingdom will benefit from that , and it will ensure that our armed benefit from the late technology . both of those thing will bring economic benefit and support job across the whole of the United Kingdom , include Scotland . at this time of heighten global tension and an illegal war in Ukraine , spark by the Russians , I be confident that Scotland will play a grow role , as the UK Government ramp up their spending . thank to the armed force parliamentary scheme , I have be lucky enough to meet some of the amazing military personnel and civilian work at his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde . will my right hon . friend confirm that the increase in defence spending announce last week by the Prime Minister will bring benefit across the whole country , whether at RAF basis in my own constituency or at the many military establishment in Scotland , and that it be another clear demonstration that it be the Conservatives who can be trust to defend and protect our entire United Kingdom ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . it be the Conservatives who be trust to defend the whole of the United Kingdom . the SNP have consistently propose abandon our nuclear deterrent , include in its most recent independence paper . the irony be that the SNP want to be part of the NATO alliance , but not part of a nuclear NATO alliance . a vital part of defence spending be ensure that military personnel live in safe and suitable accommodation . at last week ' s debate on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) ensure concession from the Government on the standard of military accommodation . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of that in Scotland ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . as the father of a serve soldier , I completely agree with she . I hear from member of the military that they be disappoint with the standard of accommodation . I have raise the issue on a UK - wide basis and discuss it with the Defence Secretary . he say the programme of improvement , which start before last winter , amount to £ 400 million of spending . far to the Secretary of State ' s comment about nuclear basis , I hope he be aware of the alarming rise in more serious nuclear safety incident at Scotland ' s Trident nuclear basis on the Clyde . my question have reveal 179 incident be log in 2023 and 2024 , include six with a risk of radiation leakage to the environment , the first category a incident in 15 year . have he concern if there be a radioactive leak beyond safe level in many of these incident ? what report will his Government produce to reassure crew and those live nearby that the nuclear infrastructure be not , as one former Downing Street adviser describe it , " dangerously rot " ? I have visit Faslane , our base on the Clyde . it be an absolutely fantastic facility . we do not comment on matter relate to Faslane . if the hon . Lady have any more specific question , she should ask they at Defence question , but regard our nuclear deterrent and our nuclear facility , we do not comment on thing that happen there . youth mobility : European Commission Scheme what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the European Commission ' s proposal for a youth mobility scheme on young people in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the European Commission ' s proposal for a youth mobility scheme on young people in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the European Commission ' s proposal for a youth mobility scheme on young people in Scotland . I be in touch with Home Office Ministers regularly to discuss immigration matter that affect Scotland . this government have youth mobility scheme agree with 13 country and we remain open to new arrangement with our international partner , include individual EU member state . I have to say that I be bemuse by that answer . I will never shake in my view that Brexit be an act of gross harm against the next generation , particularly in Scotland , where we reject it . but we be where we be , and the EU have offer the UK a comprehensive youth mobility scheme up to the age of 30 for four year . that strike I as a fantastic deal . Scotland want to do it , so why be the Minister so keen to hold Scotland back ? but my actual question be : be he as delighted as I think he must be that the Labour party completely agree with he ? the hon . Member and the SNP continue to obsess about Brexit and the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union . this Government be absolutely committed to offer young people opportunity to travel around the world during their education , as demonstrate through our association with the Horizon scheme and through the Government ' s ture scheme . the youth mobility scheme would allow young people in my constituency of Glasgow North East and across Scotland to participate in youth exchange , work , study and travel across Europe . the Minister get to do that . be his message to my constituent that this freedom be for the like of he , but not for the like of they ? the UK Government currently operate 13 successful bilateral youth mobility scheme with international party . the country with which we already have arrangement include Andorra , Australia , Canada , Hong Kong , Iceland , India , Japan , Monaco , New Zealand , San Marino , South Korea , Taiwan and Uruguay . [ interruption . ] SNP Members may scoff at these country , but these country be offer unique opportunity for scot to travel internationally and to learn , as many of we do as well . anyone in Scotland watch this will be incredibly disappointed with the response that we have have from the Minister to date . in March 2021 , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) say on BBC Scotland that young people be not reap the benefit of Brexit . I do not often agree with my constituency neighbour in the south , but he be absolutely right then and he be still absolutely right now , be he not ? the big obstacle to opportunity for young people in Scotland be the SNP Government . by restrict the number of place for scottish student at scottish university so heavily , the Scottish Government seem intent on drive young people out of our country . have be involve in run a number of our youth mobility scheme , I be fairly familiar with the concept that they involve , such as capped number ; reciprocity — the idea that we do not have a large flow one way without it happen the other way ; limited term ; no access to the welfare system ; and the fact that people can not take dependant with they give their temporary status . will the Minister assure I that we will maintain the position that we have under the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , that we will do this where it be in the UK ' s economic interest and where we know that the main driver of issue such as immigration abuse do not exist ? that be why we have the scheme that we do with Australia , Canada and New Zealand , and why we should maintain that open approach . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work in this area and his continued interest in it . the Government have make it absolutely clear that we have no plan to agree an EU - wide youth mobility scheme for the reason that he have highlight , but we be open to negotiate with individual member state individual arrangement that suit the United Kingdom and Scotland . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the cost of live in Scotland . this Government have demonstrate their commitment to support household across the United Kingdom and in Scotland with the cost of living , with a £ 108 billion package of support — one of the large in Europe . inflation be now at 3 . 2 % , which be less than half its recent peak , and be expect to fall to its 2 % target one year early than expect . accord to the Scottish Parliament ' s own research as well as the Fraser of Allander Institute , the Scottish Government ' s child poverty target for 2023 - 24 be not set to be meet . give the dereliction of their net zero target and the widen attainment gap , do the Minister agree that the Scottish Government have give up on govern and give up on the future of scottish child ? I agree with the hon . member : the SNP give up govern in Scotland a long time ago thank to its continue obsession with independence and referendum . the UK Government remain committed to support household across Scotland , demonstrate through our 6 . 7 % increase in work age benefit , our maintain the triple lock for 12 million pensioner and our cut to national insurance . I call the shadow Minister . I wish Humza Yousaf well for the future , but after his year in office , nobody in Scotland be well off , and that be couple with our have a Prime Minister who be cling on to power . child poverty be up . life expectancy be fall . nhs waiting list be up . drug death be up . Homelessness be up . economic growth have flatline . be it not the inescapable truth that scot have be fail by two government for far too long ? do the Minister agree that what Scotland need now be to be rid of both these distract , incompetent and hopelessly out - of - touch government ? I certainly agree that the SNP Government have not be focus on the day job . they have be neglect Scotland ' s school , NHS and transport network . they have not be get on with the day job , but the harsh reality be that whoever be elect to replace Humza Yousaf as First Minister will still have the same obsession with independence and referendum . UK Internal Market what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the UK internal market on the scottish economy . the Government ' s assessment be that our internal market be the essential basis on which business be able to trade freely across the United Kingdom , minimise red tape and maximise opportunity . in Scotland , 60 % of outgoing trade be with the rest of the United Kingdom — more than with the rest of the world combine . the internal market be beneficial for all part of the United Kingdom . it be , however , more important to those area where there be a border . do the Minister therefore agree that the internal market should be very helpful in maintain and develop economic activity in the borderland area , and will he consider a second borderland growth deal , which would certainly help the area on both side of the border ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the UK ' s internal market be essential to promote economic activity , ensure that business in the border — in my constituency , in Carlisle and beyond — benefit from frictionless trade with the rest of the United Kingdom . the borderland growth deal , which include a £ 265 million investment from the UK Government , be sign in July 2021 , and be develop a range of project to far boost economic growth . when the BBC have the headline on its webpage , " why have Ireland get so much surplus cash ? " be it not clear that the reality be that independent Ireland be more successful in the european and world market than Scotland , trap in the UK ? Ireland have a surplus of £ 8 . 6 billion to spend on its society . the UK have a deficit and cut , which be hurt people . will the Minister remind we of the size of the UK deficit ? I be very clear that Scotland be well serve by be at the heart of a strong United Kingdom . the spending figure of the Scottish Government be very clear , in term of their dependency on Scotland be part of the UK to support vital public service like the NHS , school and the transport network . I call Stewart Malcolm McDonald — not here . river and Streams : biodiversity what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the biodiversity of Scotland ' s river and stream . water quality policy be devolve in Scotland . the Scottish Government be responsible for biodiversity in river and stream in Scotland , not the United Kingdom Government . it be for the Scottish Government to take action in this vital area . be it not the truth that scottish water , stream and river be pure and clean because the scottish people reject the privatisation of water and , lead by Scottish Labour , make sure that we have scottish water in the public realm and deliver clean water for everyone ? the hon . member be absolutely wrong . accord to a recent report , untreated sewage have be release into scottish water and sea more than 58 , 000 time over the past five year , but only 4 % of sewage overflow in Scotland be require to be monitor , unlike in England and Wales , where nearly 100 % be monitor , thank to the effort of this Government . unlike this Government , the Scottish Government and Scottish Water be fail to take tough action to monitor sewage overflow and protect our very important waterway . protection of Free Speech what recent discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the protection of free speech in Scotland . this Government be commit to protect free speech . it be the responsibility of the Scottish Government and Scottish Parliament , work with Police Scotland , to ensure that the hate crime legislation be implement and enforce in a way that protect freedom of speech and have the confidence of people in Scotland . the Scottish Government ' s Hate Crime and Public Order ( Scotland ) Act 2021 come into force this month and be already have a chilling impact on free speech . what lesson can the UK Government learn from the introduction of this poor legislation in Scotland ? yes , and Police Scotland already have stretch resource — not least because it have be check up on the SNP finance for the last three year . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we do have concern that the legislation could have a potential chilling effect on free speech , but it be for the Scottish Government to speak to their own devolve law . for my part , I believe it be an awful piece of legislation ; it lack clarity on what constitute an offence , and , importantly , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have make it very clear that the UK Government will not enact similar legislation . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . never before have such rubbish be utter about a piece of legislation as have be utter about the Hate Crime Act . in one week , the Tories have try to repeal it — which , give that it mainly consolidate exist legislation , will leave we unprotected against islamophobia , racism and homophobia . will the Secretary of State now issue one of his famous colonial decree and tell the Scottish Tories to back off ? first of all , those law already exist — that be the important thing . secondly , I be right about police resource . there be 8 , 000 hate crime report in the first week , more than in any of the seven precede year . it be a ridiculous , unnecessary piece of legislation . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 1 May . I know the thought of the whole House be with the people of Hainault in east London follow yesterday ' s appal attack . such violence have no place on our street . it be absolutely heartbreaking that a teenage boy have die , and I can not imagine what his family be go through . we send they our heartfelt condolence and offer our very good wish to all those injure . I reiterate my thank to the police and other emergency first responder for embody the high standard of public service under such awful circumstance . I know our thought be also with those injure this morning in an attack at a school in Sheffield . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . we know that more than one in five teenager be vape , with some expert describe it as an epidemic . yesterday , new research suggest that teenager who vape could be at risk of exposure to toxic metal , potentially harm brain or organ development . I agree with the Prime Minister in his wish to reduce the harm cause by smoking and vape through the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . do he agree that permit football strip to be sponsor by vape company send entirely the wrong message to young people , and that it be time to ban vape company from advertising on sport strip ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . obviously , decision about kit sponsorship will rest with individual team , but I agree with she that it be important that we do everything we can to tackle the scourge of teenage vaping . that be why I be glad that she support our Bill , which will not only clamp down on marketing and availability of flavour , target point - of - sale purchase , but improve fund for trading standard to clamp down on those selling vape illegally to child . my husband be a veteran , and the defence of the country be the Government ' s first duty , in order to protect people across the United Kingdom . can the Prime Minister reassure the House that he have a plan in place for back our world - lead armed service , and do he know why the opposition refuse to back his plan ? I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s husband and all our veteran for their service to our country . in the most uncertain time since the cold war , it be right that we build our security , protect our value , our interest and indeed our nation . that be why this Government have take the step to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , make we the big spender in Europe under NATO . when the labour leader stand up , I hope he stop dither , do the right thing and confirm that he will back our plan to increase defence spending . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in his word about yesterday ' s awful event in Hainault . I be sure that the whole House will want to commend the first responder and send our deep condolence to the family of the 14 - year - old boy who be murder . I join the Prime Minister in his remark about the attack in the school in Sheffield as well . I know that everyone in the House will be delighted to see his Majesty the King return to his public duty and look so well . we all wish he and the Princess of Wales the good in their continue recovery . I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) to his place on the Labour Benches . after nearly two decade as a Tory politician and an NHS doctor , he have conclude that if you care about the future of our country and our NHS , it be time for change ; it be time for this change Labour party . as of today , he be our new Labour MP , but I be sure he will not mind my saying that I hope he lose that title on Friday . when a lifelong Tory and doctor say that " the only cure " for the NHS be a Labour Government , be it not time that the Prime Minister admit that he have utterly fail ? I be glad to actually see the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) in the House , because he recently point out that resident under his local Labour council be " charge much more in council tax but in return receive … low quality " service . he have be wrong about some thing recently , but on that point he be absolutely right , and this week , people everywhere should vote Conservative . the Prime Minister come out with all that nonsense , but he lock himself away in his Downing Street bunker , moan that people be not grateful enough to he . the reality be that Tory mp be follow Tory voter in conclude that only the Labour party can deliver the change that the country need . I say to those Tory voter that if they believe in a well Britain , they be safe with this change Labour party , and it be for they . in the two week since we last meet at the Dispatch Box , have the Prime Minister manage to find the money for his completely unfunded £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance ? we address that a few week ago , and I be happy to address it again . I know that economics be not the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s strong point , but he would do well to listen to his shadow Education Secretary , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , who just this morning say , " no , that ' s not how it work . " indeed , the Institute for Fiscal Studies have also say that the link between national insurance and public service funding be " illusory " — just like Labour ' s economic plan . however , it be crystal clear that there be one party that will deliver tax cut for work Britain , and it be the conservative party . [ interruption . ] order . whoever be bang the furniture will have to pay for it if they damage it . can we have less of that ? we be not in the sixth form now . that be a long , ramble non - answer to the question , which be : have the Prime Minister find the money to fund his £ 46 billion promise to abolish national insurance ? whenever he be ask about the date of the election , or about people ' s pension , he act as if answer straightforward question be somehow beneath he , but pensioner and those who be plan their retirement deserve well than his contempt for their question . if £ 46 billion be cut from its funding , the value of the state pension would almost halve , so I do not apologise for ask he again — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Gullis , you have the next question , which you be not go to reach at this rate , and you have the ten - minute rule Bill . I would be quiet for a while if I be you . I do not apologise for ask on pensioner ' behalf again whether the Prime Minister will finally rule out cut their state pension to fulfil the enormous black hole in his spending plan . of course we can rule that out . the right hon . and learn Gentleman should stop scaremongere , because it be thank to the triple lock that we have increase pension by £ 3 , 700 since 2010 , and they will rise in each and every year of the next Parliament . it be labour who always hit pensioner hard . it be his mentor , Blair and Brown , who break their promise , raise pension taxis by £ 118 billion , and deliver an insulting 75p rise in the state pension . as one former labour adviser just say , Brown " destroy our pension system " . they do it before , they will do it again . labour always betray our pensioner . it be clear that the Prime Minister can not answer the question of where he be go to find this £ 46 billion . [ interruption . ] no , he have say where it be not come from ; he have not say where it be come from . luckily for he , one of his peer , Lord Frost — yes , he again — do know . he say that to solve the problem of the Tories ' spending plan , the state pension age should be raise to 75 . understandably , that will cause some alarm , so will the Prime Minister rule out force people to delay their retirement by year and year in order to fulfil his £ 46 billion black hole ? I have answer this multiple time for the right hon . and learn Gentleman , but I be happy to say it again : the conservative party be the party that have deliver and protect the triple lock . ultimately , he be not worried about any of this , because as we all remember , he have his very own personal pension plan . indeed , it come with its very own special law : it be call the Pensions Increase ( Pension Scheme for Keir Starmer QC ) Regulations . it be literally one law for he and another one for everyone else . the Prime Minister want to abolish national insurance , which will cost £ 46 billion , and he will not tell we where the money be come from . we be no close to an answer . I be go to persevere . last year , the Prime Minister be apparently draw up plan to remove the winter fuel allowance from pensioner . his Paymaster General go a step far , say : " these be the sort of thing I think we need to look at " . will the Prime Minister now rule out taking pensioner ' winter fuel payment off they to help fund his £ 46 billion black hole ? it be this Government who , just this winter , provide double the winter fuel payment to support pensioner . what be crystal clear be that we believe that the double taxation on work be unfair . we believe that hard work should be reward , which be why this week , we be cut taxis by £ 900 for everyone in work . in contrast , it be Labour ' s new tax adviser who think that pensioner should be tax more — those be his word . this adviser call they " codger " . he think that support they be a " disgrace " , and he believe that their free tv licence be " ridiculous " . it be labour who hit pensioner with tax after tax , and they would do it all over again . be it any wonder that the Prime Minister ' s mp be follow Tory voter in queue up to dump his party ? even the Mayors who he be apparently pin his political survival on do not want to be see anywhere near he , because until he start set out how he be pay for his fantasy economic , he have a completely unfunded £ 46 billion promise that put people ' s retirement at risk . how do it feel to be one day out from election with the message , " vote Tory , risk your pension " ? tomorrow , voter will have a choice . it will be a choice between Mayors like Andy Street and Ben Houchen , who be deliver , or Mayors like Sadiq Khan , who simply virtue - signal . it be high taxis , more crime and the ultra low emission zone with Labour , or low taxis and well service with the Conservatives — that be the choice . from the West Midlands to Teesside to London , there be only one choice : vote conservative . we can see the Rwanda deterrent be work , and we have now deport our first illegal migrant , but , unsurprisingly , Labour just do not care . the shadow Home Secretary be busy pose for pic encourage more boat to come over . the leader of the Labour party have say he would cancel the Rwanda flight . he take the knee when sign letter stop we deport foreign national offender who have commit crime such as murder and rape , and he would do a deal with the EU , surrender our border to 100 , 000 legal migrant . be it not right that only the Conservatives will stop the boat and cut legal migration ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . our plan be work . legal migration , the late figure show , be down by 24 % and student dependant down by 80 % . we all know labour ' s big idea : it be to scrap the Rwanda plan even when it be operational . however , as one senior labour adviser say to Andrew Marr just yesterday : " ' we can ' t just come in , tear it up , and have nothing to put in its place " . I be sorry to break it to Labour Members , but that be exactly their policy . while we be get on and stop the boat , all Labour would do be stop the plane . I call the SNP leader . on Monday , the Armed Forces Minister could neither confirm nor deny that UK troop may soon be deploy on the ground in the middle east . the public watching will be hope that member of this House do not have a short memory when it come to the potential deployment and involvement of our military in the middle east . can I ask the Prime Minister to provide some much - need clarity : be he give active consideration to the deployment of UK force in the middle east — yes or no ? Mr Speaker , you would not expect I to get into any operational planning detail , but what I will say be that we be absolutely committed to support international effort to get more humanitarian aid into Gaza , which I think the whole House would support , by land , sea and air . we have triple our aid commitment , and right now — together with the US , Cyprus and other partner — we be set up a new temporary pier off the coast of Gaza to get aid in as securely and quickly as possible . let we all be in no doubt : aid be require in Gaza , and it be require because , when people be not be bomb , they be starve to death . the solution to that be a ceasefire and the opening of safe ground aid route , not the involvement on the ground of UK military personnel . these be dramatic and potentially dangerous development , so will the Prime Minister confirm to the House today that , before he make a decision , all member will be afford a vote ? I be not go to apologise for our armed force play a lead role in support international effort to get more aid in . indeed , we be send Royal Navy support ship RFA Cardigan Bay to the region to support that effort . the right hon . Gentleman talk about this conflict ; the fast way to end it be to ensure that we have a hostage deal that get hostage out and aid in , and for there to be a sustainable pause in the fighting . it seem clear that there now be a workable offer on the table , so I hope he join I in encourage all party , include Hamas , to accept that deal so we can move towards a sustainable solution . my right hon . friend ' s decision to cancel HS2 lead to £ 207 million for Herefordshire ' s pothole and transport infrastructure ; Hereford hospital have a new ward , more bed and a new diagnostic centre on the way ; £ 35 million have be allocate to the River Wye recovery plan ; inflation be down ; the Rwanda Bill have be pass ; and defence spending be increase . do my right hon . friend agree with I that , if he carry on like this , he be go to win the next election ? I be thankful for my hon . friend highlight the work that the Government be do , whether that be increase our defence spending to keep we safe , secure our border with our Rwanda Act , cut taxis by £ 900 or raise the state pension by £ 900 . I be also pleased that , locally in Herefordshire , we be fill in pothole , help to save the River Wye and improve local health service . it be crystal clear that it be the Conservative Government who have a plan and be deliver a bright future for our country . in February , the Foreign Secretary say that it would be difficult for a ground offensive on Rafah to avoid harm civilian and destroy home , and just yesterday , the Deputy Foreign Secretary admit that he be struggle to see how such an attack could be compliant with international humanitarian law . all the sign be that Netanyahu be about to defy the international community , and that an attack on the 1 . 5 million Palestinians shelter in Rafah be imminent . if that attack begin , will that be the moment when the Prime Minister finally find the moral backbone to ban arm export to Israel , and if not , how much more suffering have to happen before he act to prevent further UK complicity in crime against humanity ? what the hon . Lady do not acknowledge at all be that Israel suffer an appalling terrorist attack that kill hundred of its citizen , and it do have the right to defend itself . of course , as I have be crystal clear , we want to see humanitarian law respect and adhere to by all party . too many civilian have be kill , and we want to see Israel take great care to avoid harm civilian . I have make these point repeatedly to Prime Minister Netanyahu , specifically about the impact of any military incursion into Rafah , and we continue to say to the Israelis at all level that we want to see more aid go in , and bring about a hostage deal so that we can move towards a sustainable ceasefire . the 60 % increase in funding for special educational need and disability be extremely welcome , but challenge around the recruitment of community paediatrician mean that some child in Leighton Buzzard , Dunstable and Houghton Regis be wait too long for an assessment . what can the NHS do to attract more of the 39 , 000 additional doctor recruit under this government into community paediatric , as a specialty that be incredibly rewarding and important ? my hon . friend be right , and he join I in welcome the significant action that we have already take to improve child ' s health , whether that be reduce sugar in child ' s food , or the £ 600 million we have invest to improve the quality of sport and physical activity in school . the NHS have establish a special group to ensure that the recovery of paediatric service keep pace with that of adult elective care , and he will be pleased that the NHS long - term workforce plan , which we have fully back , double the number of medical school place in England and increase specialty training place . that will increase the size of the pool from which community paediatrician can be draw in the future . I know that you , Mr Speaker , want to join I in send condolence to the friend , family and colleague of our former colleague , Lord Andrew Stunell , who serve with exceptional diligence and grace as MP for Hazel Grove in this House , and who pass away very suddenly on Monday . when the BBC end longwave radio transmission next year , that will also end access to electricity tariff such as Total Heating Total Control , which be rely on by almost 1 million household across the United Kingdom . switch to smart meter will not fix that for most people , not least because the roll - out programme be so far behind . will the Prime Minister , or possibly the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , get energy company , the regulator and customer group together , so that we can stop pass the blame around , and find a solution that do not yet again leave people in the highland and island behind and out in the cold ? I understand that an agreement have now be reach to ensure that radio teleswitch service will continue until June next year . Ofgem be also engage with energy supplier on their plan to support consumer through the transition . while household currently cover by the service should not be disadvantage by the switch - off , energy supplier be well place to advise on tariff for those who have be switch to a smart meter . however , I will ensure that the right hon . Gentleman get a meeting with the relevant Minister , to ensure that his constituent be not leave behind during the transition . the east of England be play a lead role in deliver the UK ' s energy security , and without our contribution the country will not be able successfully to transition to a renewable energy supply system . in recent month , our coast have take a battering , and project such as the Lowestoft flood defence scheme have be postpone . will my right hon . friend ensure that Departments be fully co - ordinated , so as to provide the region with good support infrastructure , proper protection for coastal community , and every opportunity for local people to take up exciting new job ? we be level up across the United Kingdom and invest in place that need it the most , include , as my hon . friend rightly highlight , our coastal community . almost £ 1 billion of levelling - up funding have be allocate to the east of England , include £ 75 million for coastal place . I know that he welcome the town deal for Lowestoft in particular . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss how we can far support his region with its role in our energy security , and , in particular , its coastal community . Greenpeace Unearthed find 36 suppose grassroot campaign group that be actually administer by conservative staff and activist and which be forum for vile racism , antisemitism and islamophobic attack on Sadiq Khan . while the Prime Minister be above such co - ordinate effort against 20 mph zone in Wales , will he shed some light on these shady group spread abuse , include on their funding and their link to his party , and whether he be aware of similar operation exist elsewhere in the UK ? if he will not , will he at least commit today to investigate and take action to tackle the source of this grubby gutter politic ? I be not aware of the topic that the hon . Lady raise , but I be not go to make any apology for conservative point out the record of the SNP in Scotland or the Labour Government in Wales , because that be exactly what the democratic process be about . she might not like it when we highlight their record , but we will keep do that so that we can deliver for people across the United Kingdom . I welcome our Government ' s commitment to boost defence spending and support Ukraine , make possible by this conservative Prime Minister ' s international leadership and sound management of the economy . my constituent have be do we proud support Ukraine , with the Pot Place Garden Centre deliver ambulance , medical equipment and supply , and Steve Hodgson provide vital aid . will the Prime Minister join I in pay tribute to my constituent and people up and down the land for their support for Ukraine and reaffirm that we will continue to stand with Ukraine for the sake of freedom , democracy and global security ? I join my hon . friend in thank people up and down the country , include his constituent , for their fantastic work in support the ukrainian community in the face of Putin ' s illegal invasion . we remain steadfast in support of Ukraine . in total , since the war begin , we have pledge over £ 12 billion of aid to Ukraine . last week , we announce an additional half a billion pound of funding , which will be use to deliver much - need ammunition , air defence and engineering support and drone . more importantly — President Zelensky welcome this — we be now able to say , because of the historic increase in our defence spending , that we will continue with this level of support for as long as it take . it be crystal clear that , on the Government Benches , we can say that our support for Ukraine will never waver . in 1969 , my constituent Georgina Jacobs give birth to a baby boy whom she name Robert . sadly , Robert be bear asleep . in those day , the hospital would ask the father to collect the baby ' s body , take it to the cemetery and leave it there for burial . for 53 year , Georgina do not know exactly where Robert be bury . when she eventually find he , she share her story on social medium , and other mother who have be through the same experience get in touch . since then , she have locate over 60 baby on behalf of grieve parent and have deservedly be present with the Wirral award for her achievement . will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Georgina on her award and on have bring comfort to so many parent and family ? will he , on behalf of all previous government , apologise for that former practice , which leave grieve parent with nowhere to visit their bury child ? I thank and commend the hon . Lady for raise that case , and I pay tribute to Georgina for what she be do . I often say that one of the most incredible thing about do this job be meet people like Georgina , who have suffer tragedy in their life but use that to campaign , inspire and bring about a well life for everyone else . she be a prime example of that , and she deserve nothing but our praise and admiration . I be so pleased that she have bring comfort to so many other people , too . since I be elect in 2010 , Rugby have see employment grow by nearly 6 , 000 , with 10 % more of my constituent in work . much of that have be drive by investment in advanced manufacturing in place such as Ansty Park , where we have get the Manufacturing Technology Centre , which the Prime Minister visit , the High Temperature Research Centre , Rolls - Royce , Parker Meggitt , Fanuc and the London Electric Vehicle Company . give that every Labour Government have leave office with unemployment high than when they come in , can the Prime Minister see any reason why anybody would want to put this fantastic progress at risk ? on a recent visit , I be pleased to see for myself that my hon . friend be a great champion for his constituent . I be very pleased to see the thriving local technology and manufacturing industry , which will help we deliver on our ambition to make the UK a science and technology superpower . he be right that we have a record 1 million few workless household , and unemployment near record low . he be also right that we need to stick to the plan , because that be how we will deliver the long - term change that our country need and a bright future for family up and down the country , include in his constituency . Hypocrisy need to be call out . everyone in this House will recall the former irish Prime Minister in Brussels with a photograph of a bomb custom post , lament that any border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland be unworkable , in breach of the Belfast agreement and could result in such trouble again . the hypocrisy of the Irish Government position have not be not lose on we , with the irish police now task to patrol the border to protect from the unsubstantiated , unfounded 80 % of asylum seeker who supposedly — actually , the reverse be true — make their way to the Republic of Ireland from the UK via Northern Ireland . will the Prime Minister challenge and call out those action , and confirm what representation he have make to the irish Prime Minister and the Irish Justice Minister about the integrity of our UK border ? the House will be aware that we have make commitment to avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland . the hon . Lady make a very important point that the Irish Government must uphold their promise , too . we can not have cherry - picking of important international agreement . the Secretary of State be seek urgent clarification that there will be no disruption or police checkpoint at or near the border . I can confirm that the United Kingdom have no legal obligation to accept return of illegal migrant from Ireland . it be no surprise that our robust approach to illegal migration be provide a deterrent , but the answer be not to send police to village in Donegal but to work with we in partnership to strengthen our external border all around the common travel area that we share . I be the Lord Commissioner who sign into law the special pension of the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) . he owe I one ! the Prime Minister be right : labour ' s 75p be an insult to pensioner , yet last year our triple lock afford pensioner the high increase in 30 year . the Prime Minister be go to continue to deliver dignity in retirement , be he not ? my right hon . Gentleman be right that we will provide dignity to all those in retirement . that be why we introduce the triple lock and why this year the state pension be rise by £ 900 . I be also proud of our record to bring 200 , 000 pensioner out of poverty . as I have say previously , the state pension will increase in each and every year of the next Parliament . he remind we of the 75p increase — unlike labour , pensioner in this country can trust the Conservatives . in only one of the 194 local authority area in England be NHS ambulance meet the national response time target for potential heart attack and stroke victim . do the Prime Minister know which one it be ? when it come to ambulance waiting time in A & E , of course there be work to do , but the place where they be the bad in the country be in Labour - run Wales . thank to our plan , we have see an improvement in A & E and ambulance time this winter compare with last winter . we have 800 more ambulance on the road , fast discharge out of our emergency care centre and 10 , 000 virtual ward bed . as I say , there be more to do , but the contrast with Labour - run Wales be crystal clear : it have the bad A & E performance anywhere in Great Britain . for six month , thousand of my constituent have live with foul polluted air from the Withyhedge landfill site . the company be own by someone with previous conviction for environmental crime , who a few month ago give £ 200 , 000 to help Vaughan Gething become First Minister of Wales , after another of his company be loan £ 400 , 000 from the Development Bank of Wales , oversee by the then Economy Minister Vaughan Gething . do the Prime Minister agree that this serious matter demand an independent investigation ? it be not some internal Labour party matter . ultimately , that company need to get out of my constituency and let people in Pembrokeshire have their quality of life back . my right hon . friend bring up an incredibly important issue . I know that people in Wales be concerned about the relationship he mention . I also agree with he on the need for transparency and an investigation regard the Welsh Labour leader , because it be very clear that the situation be not at all transparent and answer be need . it have be reveal by the Observer newspaper that the conservative candidate for the Mayor of London be a member of the six Facebook group mention by the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) . they be full of Islamophobia , antisemitism and the most disgraceful incitement to damage property . the bad bit , for those of we who be in the House when our member of Parliament be take , be the death threat to the current Mayor of London , Mr Khan . will the Prime Minister close down those Facebook page , which be begin by conservative member of staff , and will he investigate the role of the current candidate and her membership of those disgraceful racist Facebook group ? the election tomorrow will be fight on the substance of the issue that londoner face . the Labour record be crystal clear : house building in London have collapse ; knife crime be rise ; mayoral taxis be up 70 % ; and driver have be hit with ulez charge . the Labour Mayor simply pander to union and have decimate London ' s night - time economy . that be his record and that be how he will be judge . People across London know that they will be safe with the Conservatives , with low taxis and well service . today be Staffordshire Day , when we celebrate all the brilliant thing about the county of Staffordshire . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to our brilliant police , fire and crime commissioner , Ben Adams , and encourage the people of Staffordshire to vote for Ben tomorrow to ensure that Staffordshire remain one of the safe place to live , work and visit ? I wish everyone a happy Staffordshire Day . my right hon . friend mention the police and crime commissioner election . it be right that she do , because under this Conservative Government and previous conservative Governments we have cut crime by over 50 % and deliver 20 , 000 more police officer . People with a Labour police and crime commissioner be more likely to be victim of burglary and be twice as likely to be victim of robbery . as I say , last year knife crime in London go up by 20 % . the fact speak for themselves : vote conservative for safe street . Immigration Update with permission , I would like to make a statement on immigration . the Government be commit to reduce immigration — both legal and illegal — into the United Kingdom . legal immigration have rise in recent year in part because we have extend the hand of friendship to people flee conflict and persecution in Ukraine , Hong Kong and Afghanistan . that be the right thing to do . but another factor have be the number of overseas student and worker and their dependant rise to unsustainable level . the step that the Secretary of State for the Home Department , my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( James Cleverly ) announce last year to cut net migration will mean that around 300 , 000 people who would have be eligible to come to the UK will now not be . we have restrict most student from bring dependent family member , increase the salary that most skilled worker migrant need to earn in order to obtain a visa by nearly 50 % to £ 38 , 700 , stop overseas care worker bring dependent family member with they , raise the minimum income for family visa to ensure that people be support financially , and scrap the 20 % go rate salary discount for shortage occupation and replace the shortage occupation list with a new immigration salary discount list . the late estimate from the Office for National Statistics show that net migration in the year to June 2023 be 672 , 000 , 73 , 000 low than it be six month early . the figure be provisional and we need to go far , but these be encourage sign . the late statistic show that the number apply for skilled worker , health and care and study visa in the first three month of 2024 be down by 24 % on the same period last year . we remove , from 1 January , the right of student start course — other than those on postgraduate research programme and Government - fund scholarship — to bring dependant to the UK via the student visa route . the number of application for student dependant visa have fall by 80 % since our change come into force . from 11 March 2024 , we have stop overseas care worker bring family dependant here , and have require social care firm in England to be register with the Care Quality Commission to sponsor visa . in the year end September 2023 , an estimate 120 , 000 dependant come here via that route . in the first three month of 2024 , the number of application for health and care visa be down by 28 % — and this be just the start ; most of our change have only just come into force . meanwhile , we remain committed to stop the boat . follow Royal Assent for the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and the ratification of our treaty with Rwanda , we can operationalise our plan to relocate illegal migrant to Rwanda . Rwanda be a safe country that have repeatedly show its ability to offer asylum seeker a chance to build new and prosperous life . it have a strong and successful track record of resettle people , host more than 135 , 000 refugee , and it stand ready to accept thousand more who want to rebuild their life and who can not stay in the UK . once flight begin , we will have add another vital deterrent to crack down on the people - smuggle gang who treat human being as cargo . the first illegal migrant set to be remove to Rwanda have now be detain , follow a series of nationwide operation this week . operational team within the Home Office have be work apace to detain , safely and swiftly , individual who be in scope for relocation to Rwanda , with more activity due to be carry out in the come week . this action be a key part of the plan to deliver flight to Rwanda in the next few week . we have make solid progress in stop the boat , although we need to finish the job . the number of small boat arrival fall by more than a third in 2023 , and our work with international partner prevent more than 26 , 000 crossing last year as well as help to dismantle 82 organise crime group since July 2020 . our new agreement with Albania have cut albanian small boat arrival by more than 90 % , and we recently sign a groundbreaking deal with Frontex — the European Border and Coast Guard Agency — which mark another crucial step in the securing of our border . an initial cohort in the thousand of suitable case for removal to Rwanda have be identify and place on immigration bail , with strict reporting condition . we have a range of measure in place to ensure that we remain in contact with individual , include both face - to - face and digital reporting , and Immigration Enforcement have a range of power to trace and locate any individual who abscond , as well as a dedicated team of trace officer who work with the police , other Government agency and commercial company to help trace individual and bring they back into contact . it would , of course , be inappropriate for I to comment far on operational activity . immigration have enrich this country beyond measure , but it need to be sustainable and it need to be fair . legal immigration should be focus on help those in genuine need , and on ensure that our economy have the skill that it need in order to flourish . it be simply not right for those who can afford to pay gangster to jump ahead of those who would play by the rule , and whose need be great . no one need to flee to the UK from a safe country such as France . both illegal immigration and unsustainable legal migration place intolerable burden on community , and over time they will undermine support for immigration in general , which would be a tragedy . that be why this Government have a plan , which we be put into action . there be furth to go , but we be see its positive impact already . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , but I have to say that this really be get quite difficult to watch . not for the first time , the Minister have come to the Dispatch Box desperately fish for compliment , when it be his Government , his Home Secretary and his Prime Minister who be the cause of the catastrophic state of both the work - base migration and asylum system . this be their bin fire — their chaos — yet they expect praise each time they half - heartedly attempt to throw a single teacup of water towards the flame . net migration have treble since 2019 to a barely comprehensible 745 , 000 . under this Government , the number of people cross in small boat have spiral from a few hundred in 2018 to ten of thousand every year . it be toe - curlingly embarrassing to watch the Minister claim that he have make " solid progress " on stop the boat , when this year the number of crosser be at the high level on record — more than 7 , 000 between January and April . it be excruciatingly painful to watch the Home Secretary boast on social medium about remove people with no right to be here , when the removal of fail asylum seeker have collapse by 44 % under this government since 2010 , when the removal of foreign criminal have plummet by 27 % , and when he have completely lose track of the 3 , 500 asylum seeker he claim have be identify for deportation to Rwanda . it be also painful to hear Government figure brag in the medium that their Rwanda policy be somehow a success because a single person , who do not even cross the channel on a small boat , have choose to fly to Rwanda voluntarily , with thousand of pound of Government money stuff into his pocket by the Home Secretary . this be not a policy ; it be a headline - chasing gimmick , a fiasco and a farce . labour have be absolutely clear that we reject the £ 500 million Rwanda scheme , base on its unaffordability and unworkability . it will cover only 1 % of small - boat asylum seeker , and the Government have no plan for the other 99 % . we will repurpose that money to smash the criminal smuggler gang with our new cross - border police unit and a security partnership with Europol . crucially , our new return and enforcement unit will ensure that more flight take off to other country , which will remove foreign criminal , fail asylum seeker and visa overstayer so that we can restore some control and integrity to our asylum system in a way that be firm , fair and well manage . we will also end the use of 250 asylum hotel and other inappropriate accommodation for asylum seeker , which be cost the british taxpayer million of pound every single day . it be painful to hear the Minister brag today about the reduction in the number of health and social care visa award as a way of bring down net migration — first , because it be base on such a small data sample ; secondly , because this be only one sector of the economy ; and , thirdly , because the Minister seem to care not one iota what the reduction in worker will mean for our elderly parent . where be the impact assessment , and where be the plan to recruit local talent ? can the Minister explain why net migration have treble since his party pledge during the 2019 general election to lower it ? will he admit that the huge surge in work - base migration over recent year be evidence of this Government ' s total failure to deliver on domestic skill and training ? Labour push the Government into scrap the unfair 20 % wage discount for job on the shortage occupation list , which allow company to undercut british worker by hire overseas . can he explain why it take so long for his party to steal our policy ? on asylum , Home Office source have tell the Times that only 400 to 700 detention space be reserve for migrant who be due for deportation to Rwanda . can the Minister confirm that this equate to less than 1 % of the current asylum backlog in the UK ? the Prime Minister promise to detain everyone who have cross the channel on a small boat — over 30 , 000 last year . give that we have only 2 , 200 detention space , what will happen to the remain 28 , 000 ? the Government ' s immigration and asylum policy have fail . we need to put the grown - up back in charge so that we can fix this break system and once again give our country an asylum and immigration system that it can be proud of . what a quite extraordinary response ! the fact be that this be a Government who have a credible plan to bring net migration down by 300 , 000 , and all those measure be now in flight . as I have be able to set out for the House , it be begin to deliver the result we say it would deliver . I will take no lecture from the shadow Front Bench about the issue of domestic employment . I be one of the Ministers in the Department for Work and Pensions that be proud to bring forward the back to work plan and the comprehensive reform of the welfare system that we be take forward as a Government . we be also see enormous cross - Government join - up to support more domestic worker into those role . that be the right thing to do : to support people in this country to take on those role and fill those vacancy . and let we not forget the record of every single Labour Government : without fail , they leave unemployment higher at the time of leave office than it be at the start . under this government , we have see record low unemployment benefit community across the country . we have begin the process of deliver the measure in relation to legal migration , and we be also deliver when it come to illegal migration . we have a plan . we be now get on and closing hotel — 150 asylum hotel have be close . that be a positive thing . it be the right thing to do to make sure that we accommodate people in appropriate accommodation , but get away from the model of provide hotel accommodation for people . what be Labour ' s plan on that ? we have see massive gain when it come to asylum decision making and productivity around those process . what be labour ' s policy on that ? we have see crossing down by over a third last year compare with the year before . we have see albanian arrival fall by 90 % . again , what be labour ' s offer to achieve likewise ? there isn ' t one . we will continue to sustain the progress that we have make , and we know from everything that have be say in recent day that the Rwanda policy be begin to have the desire effect : the deterrent be clear . when it come to the hon . Gentleman ' s meagre offering , I would just say that we have already double funding for the National Crime Agency for organise immigration crime work , and we already have approximately 5 , 000 official work on these matter within migration and border . that be all that Labour Members be offer ; it virtually resemble a blank sheet of paper . the truth be that they offer no deterrent . they have nowhere to send people . they have no plan . they have no solution . they try to bluff that they do , but they be kid nobody . they be terrified that our plan be go to work . they be terrified that they will have to scrap it , and they be terrified that they have no alternative . only we have a plan . it be deliver result and we will see it through . again , no hint of a plan for how we deal with fail asylum seeker from country to which they can not be return without the Rwanda scheme . I be pleased with the progress that the Minister have make on reduce net migration , but I be worried about the figure that come out yesterday . of the 5 , 700 migrant who have be identify for removal , only 2 , 145 can be locate . this reflect the evidence from the second permanent secretary to the Home Affairs Committee early in the year , when some 17 , 000 fail asylum seeker who should have be remove could not be locate . where be these people , and what be the Department do about track they down and make sure that they can be remove , as need to happen as swiftly as possible ? my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not go into the granularity of the operational work that be ongoing to ensure that we can deliver on this policy , but I can say that an initial cohort of suitable case of around 2 , 000 people have be identify for removal , and they have be place on immigration bail with strict reporting condition . for those outside that group , there be still a wide range of tool to maintain contact with they . that include , as I say early , face - to - face and digital reporting , and many individual also reside within Home Office accommodation . the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) lead on this work and he be confident of the whereabouts , once the decision to detain be make , and this be just one of the cohort of people who may be eligible for removal to Rwanda . the policy be clear and we be get on and operationalise it . that include detain people for the purpose of relocation . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . it be hard to know where to start with this complete and utter drivel . the Minister come here today proud of this tawdry , pathetic , self - defeat piece of fascist nonsense — [ interruption . ] the Tories — [ interruption . ] they do not like it , but it be true and I will explain to they why . the Home Office have put out — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , they do not like the truth . the Home Office have issue a promo video this morning of people be detain , and it absolutely turn my stomach . this be a Government who glorify their state - sponsor people traffic plan as they cuff people and take they out of their bed to be send to another country against their will . it be sicken . these plan be damaging to our society , to our economy , to the people who need care and to the people who want to love , live and study here . university be up in arm about the cut to student number . it make absolutely no sense . the draft rule that the Government have issue on adult at risk in immigration detention be release this week , but instead of take action on the serious recommendation of the Brook House inquiry , the Home Office be instead double down on its policy of indefinite detention . and Labour Members be go along with all of this . shame on they . far from what the Minister say , small boat arrival be up this year . Rwanda be no deterrent because none of their other policy have prove a deterrent . the thousand of people they want to send there have disappear , never to be see again , and who can really blame they , if they be go to be pluck from their bed and take away by Ministers and send to country against their will ? indeed , who can blame they ? the risk be that these people will end up be exploit because they have go into hiding . they will be exploit , they will be traffic and they will be vulnerable . why be the Minister not acknowledge the impact that this policy will have on vulnerable people ? finally , if it be indeed the case that the person the Government send to Rwanda have not be grant refugee status in this country , why be they not be return to their country of origin ? be it perhaps that that country be actually unsafe ? if that be true , why be they not give refugee status here in the first place ? it be a perfectly respectable position to want to protect our border . it be right and proper to want to ensure that we have a fair and balanced system of legal migration that be sustainable . I make no apology whatsoever — and nor will this Government or any of the Ministers in the Home Office — for place front and centre the determination to protect people ' s life . we have see too many life lose in the channel at the hand of evil criminal gang with no regard whatsoever for human life who take people ' s money , exploit they and send they out to sea in unseaworthy vessel . candidly , beyond that , I be not go to edify the hon . Lady ' s contribution with anything far . I very much welcome the fact that the Minister be able to come to this House with the first encouraging sign of low migration number , which will be welcome widely outside this House — include , I suspect , in Scotland . do he agree that the lesson we should draw from this be that take practical , detailed measure to crack down on the exploitation of certain type of visa route be the way to make progress on bring immigration number down , rather than the windy rhetoric we hear from the Opposition spokesman ? my right hon . friend be a distinguished former Home Office Minister who have responsibility in the immigration space , and I would argue that a lot of the measure that we have announce , and that be now all in flight , build on the early effort of colleague such as he . he be absolutely right that the policy be balance and measure and that they deliver on the legitimate aim of want to reduce inflow of legal migration into our country , to ensure fairness , to ensure that the model be sustainable and to ensure that people who come here be able to be properly support . I think that that be something that the british people strongly support , and I entirely share his sentiment . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the National Audit Office estimate that it will cost £ 11 , 000 per person to fly people to Rwanda . can the Minister tell the House which airline he will use to transport people to Rwanda ? what be his estimate of the number of people who will be send to Rwanda in the first three month of operate the policy ? the Chairman of the Select Committee , for whom I have enormous respect and admiration , will understand why I be not go to get into operationally or commercially sensitive matter on the Floor of the House . we have consistently see great effort to thwart this policy , in a whole host of sense , over the course of week , month and year . we will not be thwart . we have make commitment , and we will get on with deliver this policy . there be a plan and , as the Prime Minister have say , we will send a flight within the next 10 to 12 week . that be where our focus lie , and it would be entirely inappropriate to share the logistic on the Floor of the House . as mass migration have be show to depress gdp per capita , and as it be clear that it be easy to control the much high number of legal migrant , may I encourage the Government to return to their promise of have migration in the ten of thousand ? again , I be not go to set out today what the Government ' s future ambition may be . what I be able to say be that we have a package of measure that be deliver a reduction of 300 , 000 in net migration , span various different route . I think it be a very credible offer to meet the ambition of the british people to bring those number down , not least for the reason that my right hon . friend touch on : legal migration to this country need to be sustainable . when we consider , for example , that we see 100 , 000 care worker come with 120 , 000 dependant , I do not think that any fair - minded person would , by any objective yardstick , think that that be a reasonable position . that be why we be bring it to an end , and I be pleased that the measure we have introduce be deliver result . the Times report this morning that the number of visa grant for care worker in March this year be 83 % down on the figure for March 2023 . do the Minister expect that reduction to continue ? if he do , who will do the work that those carer would have do , and what impact do he think it might have on the national health service ? we have commit to monthly reporting on the net migration measure we have introduce to allow Parliament and other to take a view on our progress . there be extensive effort across Government to employ more people from our domestic labour force . I wish Liberal Democrat Members be as enthusiastic as I be about the back to work plan and our work on recruitment and retention . we be take forward those credible effort to try to support more people in this country into these role . we be also work intensively to improve the process for rematche individual who be already here on health and social care visa . these be the right step to take , and I will not pre - empt what the figure might look like in the come month . the right hon . Gentleman will be able to look at they in the same way as everybody else . it be interesting to hear the Minister ' s comment and to see the impact of thing that , I think it be safe to say , he and I would have want to do slightly early , such as abolish the 20 % discount on the SOL . do he agree that the core problem be that , all too often , people see immigration as an alternative to policy that affect the domestic labour market , rather than as something that support those policy ? sector and business that will be very keen to have a meeting with he in his new role be not quite so keen to meet he when he be try to promote the Disability Confident scheme as Minister for disabled People . what be the Government ' s plan to make sure that future migration policy clearly link up with our wide policy for the UK labour market , and to make sure that it be not open to lobby to try to avoid it ? my hon . friend speak with real authority and experience on this issue . I recall our conversation in our previous ministerial role , and he be absolutely right that immigration ought not to be the first port of call in meet our skill need and fill vacancy . that be why the Government have a co - ordinate plan , with our immigration policy , our back to work plan , our health and disability benefit reform , and our reform in a host of other area . that should be our focus . I would argue that there be a strong moral case that invest in our domestic labour force to get people into vacancy be the right thing to do . where there need to be a practical approach to migration , we should look at it , but it most definitely should not be the first port of call . I welcome the comment on legal migration , which be very important to many sector in Northern Ireland . on the important and perplexing issue of illegal migration , can the Minister say something about what the Irish Republic ' s Government say this week about push back returnee to Northern Ireland ? can he confirm that the Irish Justice Minister make up the fact that 80 % of the problem stem from Northern Ireland ? will he say something about the Republic of Ireland ' s court claim that the United Kingdom be an unsafe destination to return people to in the first instance ? will he please assure I that Northern Ireland will not become a dumping ground for the right - wing problem be face across the EU ? as the Prime Minister have rightly say , include at Prime Minister ' s question , we be not go to accept return from the EU via Ireland when the EU do not accept return to France , from where illegal migrant be come to the United Kingdom . the UK Government ' s position be clear . we have regular and ongoing work on the abuse of the common travel area , which be right and proper . we also stand by our obligation under the Good Friday agreement . I would argue that the Prime Minister have make our position very clear . Chelmsford be a very welcoming community . we have welcome ukrainian refugee , the family of those brave Afghans who stand beside our soldier , and the Hong Kong Chinese . we have amazing domestic abuse service , and we have welcome woman and their family from all over London and the south - east who be flee violent man . we have build thousand of new home and , because the Labour Mayor of London have so spectacularly fail to build new home , we have welcome social housing tenant from all across London , but this can not go on . we have 400 family who be unable to find a home in temporary accommodation . we have to control migration . I be delighted that the Minister be close 100 hotel . will he please close the atlantic hotel and the Legg Street flat in Chelmsford ? Chelmsford have welcome so many , and we can not home everyone . I be very mindful that my right hon . friend ' s community in Chelmsford have be incredibly generous . the UK Government have be deliver work in conjunction with community to provide sanctuary for those flee the most dreadful conflict around the world , include in Ukraine , Afghanistan and Syria , as well as those flee the situation in Hong Kong . she be also right to touch on the abuse of route , which be precisely why we be introduce great Care Quality Commission oversight and accreditation of the health and social care visa system . I hear my right hon . friend ' s representation on accommodation , on which we have have conversation . reduce inflow be critical to allow we to get on with closing hotel across the country , and to get the accommodation picture into a more manageable state . it be clear that only this Government have a credible plan to reduce the inflow of people come here illegally via small boat across the channel . we will see that through to make sure that we can get on with close more hotel . as the policy be roll out , it be see to be the brutal and inhumane financial fiasco that it be . asylum seeker be detain as they turn up for their normal monthly reporting yesterday , cause immense distress . a number of they will inevitably be send to the detention centre in my constituency . we have experience of what happen when people be distressed in this way . we have see suicide , self - harm and mental breakdown . can I have an assurance from the Minister that the charity that support asylum seeker in detention , include care4calai , will have direct access to these detain individual , and that these individual will have access to legal advice ? there be , of course , establish process whereby people can access the support that be appropriate in the circumstance . I have a principled disagreement with the right hon . gentleman on this point about detention , and I recognise that those in the Scottish National party do not support detention either for the purpose of removal . however , where people be here who have no right to be here , I think it be appropriate that they be detain for the purpose of removal . that be do entirely properly , in accordance with the law , with the proper safeguard around it . as ever , that will continue to be the case during the ongoing work as part of the Rwanda relocation . I welcome the statement and , in particular , the news that in some category at least immigration be finally begin to fall . on asylum specifically , the irish Foreign Minister and former Taoiseach , Miche á l Martin , complain bitterly just a few day ago that large number of asylum seeker be move from Northern Ireland into the Irish Republic . Sky News report yesterday that the Irish Government be seriously contemplate move police officer to the border to interdict that flow . in effect , that would create a hard border on the island of Ireland . some of we be lecture for year , include by today ' s Opposition spokesman , that the Irish Government would never contemplate that in any circumstance , so the stench of hypocrisy be strong . will the Minister assure I that we will never allow the Republic to return those people to Northern Ireland unless and until we can remove illegal cross - channel migrant to France ? as for the contemptible remark of the SNP spokesman , let I say that at least the UK have a Government , which be more than we can say for Scotland this week . my right hon . friend know that this Government be resolutely oppose to a hard border on the island of Ireland . I understand that the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have request an urgent meeting with the Irish Government to seek assurance that there will be no adverse implication for the smooth operation of either the common travel area or the Good Friday agreement . that be an important meeting and he be right to seek it . I reiterate that we would welcome a return agreement with the EU . we think it be right that we explore those opportunity and we will continue to pursue that . when I be first elect to this House , we often debate safe and legal route , but we do not hear much about that any more . many of my constituent be write to I because they want a family reunion scheme for their relative in Gaza . I recently co - author a report with Helena Kennedy recommend that the UK Government have a humanitarian visa for woman in Afghanistan and Iraq . will the Minister therefore tell I whether the Government have any plan to announce any safe and legal route before the next general election ? I be sure the hon . and learn Lady have follow the position closely . through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , we make a commitment , which be reflect in the legislation , to publish the cap and the statutory instrument that sit alongside it , which will support our effort to provide resettlement opportunity in this country for people in the year ahead . that work be on track and we will deliver on that commitment , and I will be able to say more in due course . in December , Care England appear before my Select Committee and tell we that the care sector have be " blindside " by the change to ban overseas care worker from bring dependant to the UK . the Government ' s impact assessment say that the policy would not affect the number of those apply to come here and help look after our constituent , yet today ' s figure show that care worker application have decrease by more than half . we all want to see a care sector sustain by domestic labour — why wouldn ' t we ? however , with 152 , 000 vacancy to the end of March this year , be that decrease the intention or the unintended consequence of these change ? as I have consistently describe , the situation on dependant have be unsustainable . as I say in answer to an early question , we see 120 , 000 dependant come with 100 , 000 care worker . that position could not realistically continue to be sustain . we be in the very early stage of the delivery of these measure ; the health and social care change have only just come into force . my hon . friend will want to satisfy himself on this have look at the figure across a number of month , but I reiterate that there be huge opportunity associate with domestic recruitment and enormous work be go on in government with a focus on retention . that be the right way to deal with these challenge , but a health and social care visa route be still available for people . it be not unreasonable to think that in future individual without dependant will come — they will still be able to come — and that be entirely appropriate . when the Minister give a statement to the House , he say that the Government have extend the hand of friendship to those flee persecution and oppression . be he aware that a considerable number of people who be in Calais , or who have cross the channel and try to get to this country , be victim of human right abuse , environmental disaster and war , some of which this country have be involve in , such as in Afghanistan ? his answer be to demonise they and to try to force they to go to Rwanda . should he not think for a moment of a sense of humanity about people in a desperate situation , through no fault of their own , look for a place of safety in a country that be involve in the war in Afghanistan in the first place ? I be exceptionally proud of the work that this country , support by the Home Office and its team , have do as part of the enormous resettlement effort we have take forward in recent year . only last week , I have the real privilege to spend some time with a team who have be support new afghan arrival through the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . I be incredibly move by that work . those individual have come through a safe and legal route , and we will continue to see those commitment through . the UK have play its part and it will continue to do so . but what be not right , in any sense , be to give the impression that anybody ought to be get in a small boat , have pay an evil criminal gang to do so , and come across the channel and risk their life . we see a young girl lose her life only last week . nobody need to leave those french shore in order to find safety . we do have safe and legal route , and it be right that people come through those . fifteen month after the Government announce that they be take over the whole of RAF Scampton and put 2 , 000 migrant there , not a single one have arrive . we have fight the Home Office to a complete standstill and everything we have say have be prove correct ; the cost be rise exponentially from £ 5 million to £ 27 million , and the building be decay , as be the runway . the Labour party have now join I in my early - day motion against this proposal . we have involve the Levelling up Secretary , who be now impose all sort of condition on the Home Office . will the excellent , first - class Minister before we today now ensure that his attention be laser - focused on work with we and do what we have argue for from the beginning : release the entire site to Scampton Holdings so that we can get the big and good levelling up we have ever have on a former RAF base ? my right hon . friend be a tireless campaigner for his constituent . he know that I be exceptionally sympathetic to try to deliver this regeneration project for Lincolnshire . I appreciate entirely the enormous economic benefit and opportunity that it present for people in the Scampton area , from a perspective of not only amenity but job . we be work intensively with he and with the local authority to move this forward . we do of course need to realise our accommodation ambition for that site in the short term , but I also want to find and agree a way forward that mean that those regeneration ambition can also be realise as quickly as possible . we now know that it be the Government ' s intention to pay board and lodge for five year for anyone voluntarily remove to Rwanda . that commitment will fall heavily on the next Government , if this one be even successful in get anyone to Rwanda . so how much be this nonsense go to cost ? it be fair to say that if we be to adopt the approach of the Labour Front Benchers , which the hon . Gentleman no doubt subscribe to , we would continue to have uncontrolle immigration to our country via the channel . he offer no alternative solution to the one that the Government be take forward . that be an unsustainable position . I be confident that the Rwanda policy will help to bring to an end the channel crossing , put the evil criminal gang out of business and get the issue under control . that have to be right . what be clearly unacceptable be to parade around with no credible policy alternative and just pretend that everything be go to be okay . it be very encouraging to hear the news about the progress on tackle both legal and illegal migration , and particularly about the operationalisation of the Rwanda policy . I push on a number of occasion for further scheme with other third country , because we need to see that deterrent , but I be tell that we be wait for the delivery of the Rwanda scheme . now that we have deliver the Rwanda scheme through Parliament , will the Minister look again at further scheme with other third country , so that we can offer the maximum possible deterrent to those try to come here illegally ? my hon . friend be right on the point about deterrent . he have be very supportive of our work that have see albanian arrival fall by 90 % . again , that show the value that deterrent have . I know the Minister for counter Illegal Migration have be have conversation with the Vietnamese about the small boat arrival we have see from Vietnam . we will continue to work hard to deliver more international co - operation in this space . I also think it be right that the Home Secretary be spend considerable amount of his time and energy on inform the conversation internationally about what more we can do to tackle these migratory flow . we know that where we lead the way in announce our Rwanda policy , other internationally be seek to follow . yesterday , my 21 - year - old Springburn constituent , Abdullah Salimi , be detain . he be then take on a 10 - hour journey from Scotland to England , I suspect because in Scotland he would get legal aid and he would have legal representation , but down here he will have none . during the 10 - hour journey , he be give no water and no food . be that right ? be that acceptable ? what be the reason for that ? he have his phone take off he so he could not contact anybody or tell anybody . be that right ? be that acceptable ? what be the reason for that ? rise — I haven ' t finish . I email the Home Office last night and I go to the Home Office this morning , but official refuse to give I any information . I go with a letter for one of the Minister ' s colleague , but they refuse to take the letter . I be Mr Salimi ' s MP . I have the right to know what be go on in his life and the right to try to represent he . why be I be deny that and why be he be deny the right that the Minister enjoy at the age of 21 ? I be a british citizen who be in this country legally . [ interruption . ] if the hon . Lady will allow I to finish the point , it be entirely right and proper that people be detain on a legal basis for the purpose of removal under this policy , but there be always safeguard around that . I will gladly accept the letter from the hon . Lady and ensure it reach the right destination in the Home Office . we will , in the normal way , look carefully at any concern she wish to raise . I recognise that she be entirely oppose to the policy objective we be seek to advance . there be a principled disagreement there — she think I be wrong about this , I think she be wrong — but if she would like to share those specific point with I , I will gladly ensure that she receive a full response . the sign of a fall in net migration will be welcome across Amber Valley . can I raise my concern about the situation where a young UK national work abroad for a while and form a relationship , but be not yet earn enough to sponsor their spouse to live in the UK ? be there more we can do to help in this situation , perhaps by clarify in the guidance that they can use both their salary to meet the earning threshold ? there have be no change to the way that the various family visa requirement can be meet , through saving and the like . we have a good debate last week in Westminster Hall on the important safeguard of article 8 right . as part of the consideration of any application , all those factor be give proper and due consideration to ensure we get the right decision on individual case . we think it be right to introduce these salary change — they be be increase incrementally and not apply retrospectively — but as I say , there be an important safeguard around article 8 right . we have support this policy , albeit with some reservation , because we believe it be important to break the criminal gang model and ensure the stability of the United Kingdom . however , I be not convince today by the Minister ' s argument give that we be send one person to Rwanda with £ 3 , 000 in their pocket and we be still look for half the people who be mean to be send there . this week , the Irish Government , in an attempt to divert attention from their own domestic failure on housing and immigration , have start a row about immigrant come from the United Kingdom into the Irish Republic and have refuse to publish the deal — it be the usual Brit - bash exercise that they engage in . the Minister have be ask twice today but have not give an answer , so will he tell we what specific measure he will put in place to ensure that the cynical Irish Government do not simply bus immigrant to the border and dump they in Northern Ireland ? the situation he describe would not be appropriate . that be a matter for the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , who lead on that work within the Home Office . we have be clear that if there be a desire for a return deal , that need to be do with the EU in the way the british people would rightly expect . on the right hon . member ' s early point about Rwanda , the voluntary return we see be part of an established approach to voluntary return that be in place even when the last Labour Government be in office . we be now get on and deliver a wide scheme . the Prime Minister have be clear that we will operationalise that over the course of the next 10 to 12 week . we be determined to send individual with no right to be here to Rwanda and to put out of business the evil criminal gang responsible for the misery in the channel . I welcome the news about the reduction in the number of legal migrant . immigration must be set at sustainable level so that migrant can integrate properly into our country . do the Minister agree that to fill any skill gap , it be vital that we ensure that we upskill our own people and not become dependent on immigration ? will he confirm that his Department be work with the Department for Education and the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure we achieve that ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . there be concerted effort go on across Government , build on the back to work plan . I be play my part in discussion with colleague from the Department for Education , the Treasury , the Department for Work and Pensions and a whole host of other Departments , include that of the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who be in his place . we be go sector by sector look at what more we can do to support the domestic recruitment of staff in the first instance . that be the right approach to this . it be not right to resort to immigration as the first port of call . my hon . friend ' s support for those effort and endeavour be appreciate . labour push the Government into scrap the unfair 20 % wage discount on job on the shortage occupation list . will the Minister explain why it take so long for the Government to adopt our policy ? I do not see it like that . labour ' s policy be a blank sheet of paper . this government ' s policy be a credible offering to get on and deliver on legal and illegal migration . the good news be that those effort be deliver result . the Minister have say that the number of application for skilled worker health and care visa and for student visa be down 24 % . astonishingly , he be proud of that . international student bring massive economic benefit to the UK . in my constituency alone , that be worth £ 83 million per annum . they be also highly mobile . if the graduate route be close , we lose out economically but , more importantly , our business lose skill and the ability to develop and expand . will the Minister confirm that there be no plan to close the graduate visa route ? the hon . member present the Government ' s position in , I would argue , an inaccurate and disingenuous light . the fact be that we want to see a balanced approach to migration . the position around dependant be not sustainable . she will also recognise that there be a proper process , which be ongoing , in relation to the graduate route . the Migration Advisory Committee be look at that route , look at the datum and take representation and will report in a proper way to the Department . minister will then take decision around those recommendation , take full account of the fact and have proper conversation within Government about the right way forward , but it be entirely right that we wait for the Migration Advisory Committee ' s finding . can the Minister explain what will happen to the more than 150 , 000 people whom the Refugee Council estimate can not be remove to Rwanda or return to their home country since the introduction of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 ? do he accept that those people , stick in limbo , be likely to be reliant on Home Office support or go underground ? I will not get into the operational specific of the work that be ongoing to operationalise the Rwanda policy . we be clear that there be a basis on which we can send people to Rwanda for the purpose of relocation , with the ultimate objective of put out of business the evil criminal gang who be responsible for bring people here , but we work cohort by cohort and we take appropriate decision for individual accord to the circumstance that be relevant in each specific case . I thank the Minister for his answer to all the question today . clearly , the Government have a policy that they be try to implement , and I think they need some support from member across the Chamber to make that happen . the Home Office have state that a crackdown on visa have lead to an 80 % fall in skilled worker visa . do the Minister agree that our fishing sector rely on the provision of skilled worker ? what step can be take to ensure that the fishery do not suffer as a result of what the Minister have say today ? historically , the Government have be very generous and allow the fishing and seafood processing sector to have a privileged position within the immigration system , with quite considerable support . there have be some legitimate and understandable concern raise around the risk of exploitation and the need to safeguard people properly . I make this offer again have make it previously to the sector : if it have idea about how we can still uphold those duty to safeguard people and about how the english language requirement can still be meet in a way that be conducive to help the industry , I would welcome those representation and that evidence base . UK Trade Performance with permission , I would like to make a statement on the UK ' s trade performance . when I be overseas , as Secretary of State for Business and Trade , other country speak with nothing but admiration and respect for what we be achieve in Britain . as the chief executive officer of Nissan Global recently remark : " it be surprising to hear people ask why they should choose the UK " — because , in his word , " we have both great people and great talent here . " certainly , in the firm that I have visit up and down this country , I be proud to see our employer and exporter fire on all cylinder . yet , when I return to Westminster , some people seem unaware of the progress that we have make as an independent trading nation . today , I want to put that right . the late trade datum , publish by the Office for National Statistics and also by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development , should give everyone in this House cause for celebration and renew pride in our country . they confirm that the strategy the public vote for on 23 June 2016 be deliver . leave the European Union be a vote of confidence in the project of the United Kingdom , and we be see result . since that referendum , the UK economy have grow fast than that of Germany , Italy and Japan , and contrary to gloomy prediction , our manufacture productivity have grow more than that of Germany , France , Italy and the USA . accord to the late UN statistic , the UK , outside the EU , become the world ' s fourth big exporter in 2022 , overtake Japan , the Netherlands and France . the value of UK export be £ 862 billion in the 12 month to February 2024 . that build on progress we have make in grow our export outside the confine of the EU . export be now 2 % above 2018 when adjust for inflation . service export be at an all - time high . a summary of these figure , along with the most recent business and labour statistic , be publish on gov . uk in April . together , they definitively disprove the claim of those who prophesy a catastrophic economic collapse when we leave the EU to become a sovereign nation . today , we be sell not only more service to EU country than ever before , but record amount of service to the rest of the world , too . we be the large net exporter of financial and insurance service in the world . far from an exodus of business out of the UK , european firm have double down on their commitment to the UK . in 2020 , Unilever choose to headquarter exclusively in London over Rotterdam . since 2022 , Cadbury have bring more chocolate production back to the UK from Germany . in the same year , Shell move its headquarters out of the Netherlands and into the UK . we be tear down the barrier to trade . since the start of 2022 , we have resolve barrier all over the world , estimate to be worth more than £ 15 billion to UK business over a five - year period . in 2023 , this be equivalent to remove around £ 1 million - worth of trade barrier every single hour . british pork farmer be benefit from newly agree access to the mexican market , which be worth £ 80 million over the same period . our work on bottle labelling for UK gin and whisky have drive up export to Chile by tonne . we have end the US ban on british beef and lamb . we be work to deliver a strategy on a situation that face the whole world , not just our friend and neighbour in Europe . this be crucial if we be to lock Britain into the future of where global growth will be . in 2022 , the EU take more than 60 % of UK good export . in 2023 , this be 47 % , because UK good export to the EU remain broadly flat , while export to non - EU country rise by around 70 % in real term . we be go far to seize the benefit of an independent trade policy . we have deal with 73 country around the world , with more to come under this Government , plus the most comprehensive trade deal to which the EU have ever agree . later this year , we will join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership , one of the world ' s big trading bloc . this will mean that more than 99 % of UK good will be eligible for zero tariff in some of the Asia Pacific ' s most dynamic economy . british business be set to benefit . as well as service export , where Britain excel , our top good sale be in car , mechanical - power generator , medicine , pharmaceutical product and aircraft component . we have one of the world ' s large manufacturing sector . productivity in our manufacturing industry have grow fast than in every other G7 nation since 2010 . hundred of business in steel , chemical and other sector stand to benefit from the newly introduce british industry supercharger , which be bring energy cost down for key industry . our £ 4 . 5 billion advanced manufacturing plan be open new market and remove obstacle to growth while help to crowd in new funding for plant and factory throughout the UK . every penny the UK Government spend on manufacturing be match fivefold by the growth creator of the private sector . this pro - investment approach be work : the UK ' s automotive sector attract £ 3 . 7 billion - worth of greenfield foreign investment in 2022 alone . the Labour party will remember Mr Alastair Campbell , who assert during the referendum that if we leave the EU , Nissan will leave . Nissan be still here . the two new 100 % electric model be set to be build at its Sunderland this year . More Minis be roll off production line in Oxfordshire today , thank to a £ 600 million investment from BMW . these be firm that look for opportunity the world over and decide that the UK be the place to be . listen to some of the remark make in this House and elsewhere , people would think that our country be not worth invest in at all . let we be clear : the british ingenuity and industry that make this country prosper in the past still exist today , and even if those on the Opposition Benches can not see it , international investor certainly can . the statistic publish by my Department show that the UK ' s inward FDI stock have reach more than £ 2 trillion . our FDI stock be the high in Europe — more than Germany , France and Italy combine . the most recent OECD datum show that our employment rate be high than that of the US , France and Italy . the regulatory freedom that we gain by leave the EU have allow our smart regulation programme to cut the red tape that have be hold they back . we have already reform the work time directive reporting requirement , save business up to £ 1 billion per year . we recently announce that we will raise the threshold that determine company size , reduce burden on small business , and remove low - value and overlap reporting requirement . those change will make report simple and deliver saving of around £ 150 million per year to UK company , with small and medium - sized company benefit by around £ 145 million . it be no surprise that the most recent NatWest SME business activity index show that output be increase strongly , drive by renew manufacturing sector expansion , and company ' activity expectation remain upbeat . these thing do not happen by accident , and I hope that hon . member on both side of the House will welcome those figure . I have no doubt that this statement will disappoint some people , as it do not align with the story that they want to tell of a nation rive by injustice and economic stagnation , cling to Europe for any hope for the future . that be not to say that everything be perfect — of course there be still more to do — but we be not alone in our problem . minister in other country be quick to remind I about supply - chain issue affect everything from get car component to stock supermarket shelf . they tell I about how they be cope with problem in the job market , as society from Germany to Japan get old . only when I be back in the UK be I tell that all these issue be down to Brexit . far from it . our plan be work , and Britain be thrive as an independent sovereign home of free enterprise and free trade . that be what the recent figure publish by my Department , by the ONS , and by the UN tell I . it be what our business , exporter , employer and investor all tell I , and I hope that hon . member present can see it too . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . as usual , I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . I be always pleased to hear any positive news on trade and investment , but she appear , presumably inadvertently , to have miss out one or two fact and issue in her statement . under the Conservative party , business have suffer from endless u - turn and policy change that undermine investment . there have be constant change on policy , from net zero to corporate governance . the Government ' s failure to address the big challenge face business , such as skill shortage , infrastructure issue and net zero , have undermine business confidence . foreign direct investment figure be down nearly 30 % since 2016 - 17 , accord to the Government ' s own figure . without an industrial strategy , and with constant policy uncertainty , more business will not have the confidence to invest in the UK . specifically on trade , british export in the past decade have grow slow than those of any other member of the G7 besides Japan . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , since the Secretary of State be appoint , british export have drop and be expect to decline again this year , with at good anaemic growth in each of the next three year . minister have cut funding to help small business get to the international trade show that they need to attend in order to find new export market , and have cut funding to allow business group to lead their own trade mission to win vital new order for british business . farmer and conservative member think that the Government ' s record on trade negotiation be one of give away far too much for far too little in return . minister deliver a poor trade deal with Europe that have put up barrier to trade , raise cost for business and help to drive up price , and there be no sign of any plan to use next year ' s review of the trade and co - operation agreement to try to address at least some of those issue . then there be the Conservatives ' failure to deliver on the promise in their manifesto at the last general election to have trade agreement in place with at least 80 % of the world , and to have a trade deal with the United States . the target to deliver £ 1 trillion of export have be move many time , and will at well be deliver 15 year late . perhaps the right hon . Lady could answer the follow question . last week , we hear about the impact that the Government ' s constant flip - flopping be have on the automotive sector , with Stellantis air serious warning . what discussion have she have with the Transport Secretary to try to mitigate the impact of the conservative party ' s chaos ? as the devastating news from south Wales continue to come , we have hear next to nothing from the Secretary of State on the damage that she have allow to our steel industry . do she still think that spend million of pound of taxpayer ' money to make thousand of people redundant and leave we as the first develop country with no primary steelmaking capacity be " a great deal " , as she say at the time ? give that this House have repeatedly be promise an amazing trade deal with India , usually by Diwali , will the right hon . Lady update the House on the state of free trade agreement negotiation with India ? lastly , give the medium report at the weekend , which have cause concern , will she update the House on whether FTA negotiation with the Gulf Co - operation Council be still ongoing or have stall ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I could see that it be very difficult for he to find thing to pick at in the statement , so I broadly welcome some of what he say , which imply that the good news be true . the hon . Gentleman start with the OBR . he pick that statistic very selectively . of course export fall during covid ; export overall have grow . many Opposition Members will say , " oh , it ' s just service . " that be because they do not understand the UK economy . the UK economy be 80 % service , so it be good that service export be go up . that be what we mainly do in this country . the hon . Gentleman ask about Stellantis , and talk about u - turn . I remind he that the whole House vote for the net zero by 2050 target . it happen under a previous Conservative Government , but with the consent of the whole House . when business talk , we listen . the opposition criticise we for make the change that Stellantis ask for , so why be he now raise those comment ? the Transport Secretary , the Prime Minister and I have a discussion — we do have discussion — and we extend the zero - emission vehicle mandate to ensure that we be not impose undue cost on people if they be not ready to take up electric vehicle . we listen ; the opposition do not . look at their plan for net zero . I assure the hon . gentleman that business be absolutely terrified about what Labour would do with its new green deal , and all the measure that would just put cost on business and consumer . the hon . Gentleman ask about steel . I be afraid that I need to correct several point . we save job in Port Talbot — 8 , 000 job be go to be lose , and we save 5 , 000 . if we want a net zero transition , we will have to move to electric arc furnace , which require few staff . the opposition can not blame the Government for that while demand a transition to net zero . we save 5 , 000 job in Port Talbot . we invest £ 500 million out of a total £ 2 billion investment make with Tata . it be wrong to say that the Government be not save steel ; we be the only one who have a plan for steel . the opposition have no plan . we have a great plan , which will transform and regenerate south Wales . the other thing that the hon . Gentleman say that be incorrect be about we have no primary steel production . we still have British Steel in Scunthorpe . there may be change in Port Talbot around move to electric arc furnace , but he need to remember that even the steel production that we have there rely on import . we do not have iron ore here , so I recommend that he get a briefing on exactly what be go on with steel production in the UK . on India , the hon . Gentleman be right that a deal be promise by Diwali under a previous Prime Minister , but as soon as I become Trade Secretary , I say in this House over and over that it be about the deal , not the day . we do not sign trade deal that will not make business happy . we be keen to ensure that whatever we do will do right by our farmer . the opposition laugh when I pause the FTA discussion with Canada . that be because what the Canadians be offer be not go to be good . the industry there be complain that the UK get too good a deal from the CPTPP , but the opposition do not talk about that . we be negotiate great deal for this country . I be very proud of the work that my Ministers and my Department be do . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I be grateful for the statement . it be wonderful news on export ; it show that all the pessimism at the time of the referendum be completely wrong . I fully support the approach of the Secretary of State in delay the target for battery vehicle , because people be not buy they in enough quantity , but will she add to that by adopt the advice of Stellantis not to fine motor manufacturer here for produce good petrol and diesel car before people be ready to buy electric one , because that be put off investor ? I understand the point that my right hon . friend make . this be something that we have hear from some body in industry . the auto sector be give we two different message . some people want we to bring the mandate forward and make the change fast ; other want we to delay it . it be a very tricky balance . we understand the concern . we do not want to put additional burden on business , so he be right to make that point . I have make representation to the Transport Secretary , but this be his policy area , and he will make the ultimate decision . I call the SNP spokesperson . with these selective statistic , the Secretary of State would clearly make a good cherry - picker , while clutch at straw at the same time . the reality be that we still have a cost of living crisis , and I would welcome she to my constituency to tell people there how rosy thing apparently be in the UK . real gdp growth in the UK — growth since before the pandemic — be just 1 % . that be one third of the EU average figure , and one eighth of US growth . the here and now figure be even bad . the UK economy shrink in 2023 , whereas there be significant growth in the G7 and the OECD average . now be probably the only time in live history that the UK economy have be on a par with Germany ' s — but sadly that be because Germany be also an international outlier in lack economic growth . volume of UK good import and export be 7 . 4 % small than in 2018 — the big five - year decline for which comparative record exist . the Secretary of State be right that export to the EU be up , but import from the EU be also up , so the trading deficit with the EU have increase by more than 5 % . Allianz Trade have estimate that the introduction yesterday of new custom and check procedure on animal and plant product and good enter the UK will cost british business £ 2 billion a year . UK Energy also estimate that energy bill be £ 1 billion a year high due to post - brexit trading arrangement . instead of talk up the minimal saving from what the Secretary of State call " cut red tape " , I wish she would tell the truth about the trading cost increase result from Brexit red tape for business in the UK , not to mention the impact of labour shortage . this Parliament be set to break a lot of record : we have the big drop in living standard , the long decline in GDP per capita , the steep five - year decline in volume of trade , and the stock market shrink at its fast pace in history . which of these record - break achievement for broken Britain be she most proud of ? it be very interesting to hear the hon . Gentleman talk about his constituent . what he should tell they — certainly what I would , if I be there — be that under the seven - year Administration of First Minister Nicola Sturgeon , the SNP welfare economy grow at half the growth rate of England ' s economy . if the SNP have achieve growth in line with England , it could have increase Scotland ' s economy by £ 15 billion . instead , that welfare economy mean no growth , because of Scotland have the high income tax rate in the UK , and high wage in the public sector than in the private sector . the SNP ' s policy be not help . the hon . Gentleman ask question — [ interruption . ] he do not want to hear the fact , but I will give he the fact . he talk about the real , pre - pandemic gdp figure . of course the pandemic have an impact ; we can not stand here and pretend that it do not . even the statistic I be quote show that covid have a far big impact than leave the EU ever will , just as Russia ' s war in Ukraine will have a far big impact than leave the EU . he talk about international outlier , which show that he be the one who be cherry - picking . we have to look at our peer country , because we will not grow as quickly as develop country . it be astonishing that he be also complain that import from the EU be up . that show that , despite our leave the European Union , trade be do well and thing be go well . if his Scottish Government take some lesson from the UK Government , they would see much well thing happen for their constituent . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and especially the fact that Japan be mention on , I think , five or six occasion . the late statistic show there have be a £ 777 million increase in total trade between our two country , which work out at an increase of 2 . 9 % . I would also welcome she to an event that we be host with Baker McKenzie in the first week of June , launch Baker McKenzie ' s UK Japan Connect , which seek to foster business and trade between our country . I thank my hon . friend for the question ; I will check my diary to see if I be available for the event , but I be glad that he raise the issue of trade with Japan . we sign an upgrade FTA with Japan after leave the EU , so these roll - over deal be no long roll - over deal , because we be add more into they , especially the digital trade chapter . these be deal fit for the 21st century — the age we live in — rather than the 20th century . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . it be good to see the Secretary of State in the House again . I know she have a difference of opinion sometimes with the Office for Budget Responsibility , but can she confirm that the OBR ' s figure for March 2024 show that the UK have the low trade intensity in the G7 ? there be important progress , as she have report today , but much of it rest on progress in our service trade , which provoke the question of why we be not pursue service - only trade agreement in a more expansive way , not least as the Minister for Trade Policy be unable to confirm whether any comprehensive free trade deal would be sign before the election when he come before the Committee yesterday . he say that service - only deal be not allow under World Trade Organisation rule , which of course be flat - out wrong . the question I want to put to the Secretary of State be about our good trade . the Office for National Statistics figure show that our good export have fall by about £ 31 billion over a year . the risk be that that number will be hit even hard by the chaos at the border . the new border operating model involve datum that be submit by trader , but then not share with port ; sometimes two hour ' notice be need for a journey that only take 90 minute ; there be no standardisation of inspection charge ; and British Chambers of Commerce say that many business will be hit by thousand of pound - worth of custom bill that they do not know they be on the hook for . the question be this : do the Secretary of State warn her colleague in Cabinet that there would be complete chaos , and that the EU check that we be introduce would be a disaster ? that be what small business be say to I , and I know it be what small business be say to she . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he ask why we be not pursue service - only deal . we have do two of those : one with Singapore and one with Ukraine about digital trade exclusively . however , it be an area where we need both side to agree , and most country still want a good deal ; for many of the country that we be negotiate with , good be still the large part of their economy . we have to bear that in mind , because trade deal be not a one - way story . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman welcome my statement . he will of course know that I be not somebody who pretend that everything be perfect and nothing could be well . I do think thing could be improve , but one thing we have to acknowledge , in reference to his comment about the border operating model , be that the people vote to leave the European Union . there will be opportunity and there will be cost . farmer regularly tell we that they want well food standard check and other check at the border . that will impose a cost . we have do everything we can to minimise those cost — we have even find cost saving in do so . I have hear many scare story about what business will see at the border , but not all of they will apply . we be do everything we can to minimise the burden , but the fact be that the EU impose the same measure on the other side , and we need to give our producer a level playing field . it be a pleasure to follow the Chairman of the Business and Trade Committee . I be a relatively new member of the Committee ; I join this year . I recall my first meeting , at which we hear that the UK have have the third - high foreign direct investment over the past year ; we be behind only the US and China . this week , at our meeting with the Minister for Trade Policy , we hear about our trade deal with over 70 country , include the landmark CPTPP . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree that that track record of success contrast starkly with Labour ' s track record ? under Labour , the UK ' s share of global trade decline . do she agree that , just perhaps , aside from the Chairman of the Select Committee , there be not a single labour Back Bencher in the Chamber who want to hear about that track record of success , because they do not have a leg to stand on ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . she be right , and I be sure that the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , who be a Labour Trade Minister , could verify those figure about our trade dropping . indicate dissent . he be shake his head . in answer to my hon . friend ' s question , we be often tell that we would never be able to get those 73 trade deal — we be mock — and that nobody would sign any deal with the UK that be like what we have in the EU . we get 73 do , and many of they we have actually improve on . we in this House must remind people that we have do much good ; they may forget . People live in the moment , and we have to remind they of our record — and this be a record we should be proud of . as much as we welcome the good figure that have be produce , Northern Ireland still suffer from not have full access to the trade deal that the United Kingdom have strike throughout the world with 70 country . what measure would ensure that we can take advantage of those deal and get rid of the injustice of the protocol and the difficulty that it cause business in Northern Ireland ? we have be do a lot in Northern Ireland to increase investment and make up for any shortfall , whether through our trade deal or otherwise . the Windsor framework , for example , be one thing that the Prime Minister have work on to iron out some of those issue . we be look at where Northern Ireland can exploit the benefit of be part of both the EU single market and the UK single market , which be a unique position . we know that there be some area in which thing be not exactly the same as in GB , but we can look individually in specific trade deal at what we can do . in service , for example , that should not be an issue ; we really see the difference in good . we can do a lot more and we continue to work on that . do the Secretary of State agree that , if we cast our mind back to the time of covid , when we be spend hundred of billion of pound just to keep the country function , none of we could have imagine set of statistic as positive as those that she have give we ? may I re - emphasise a point that have already be make in slightly different term ? there appear to be eight time as many people sit on the Conservative Front Bench as there be on the entirety of the Labour back Benches . do she take that as a vote of confidence in the Government ' s positive message ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be clear that Labour do not like good news . as soon as there be any , Labour Members exit the Chamber unless they absolutely have to be here . it be disgraceful that there be not a single Back - Bench Labour Member , other than the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , be blush because she know that it be true . that be one reason why it be important for we not to assume that people see these statistic . if we do not talk about they , nobody else will . enough people out there — certainly on the Labour Benches — will tell we how terrible everything be , but we need to remind people about the good that be happen . in complete contrast to the rosy picture that the Government be try to paint , there be some inconvenient truth that have be leave out . from this week , new check on food import from the EU will see cost for importer rise by 60 % , which will have a severe impact on small business and consumer alike . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to lay out how consumer and small business will be protect from those severe new cost ? I seem to remember a time when some Liberal Democrats be complain that we do not have any check at the border , and that that show that standard in this country be low . if we do something , they immediately make the opposite argument — there be no consistency whatsoever . I explain in response to an early question why we be do this and how it be of benefit . it be about maintain standard . the other thing that the hon . Lady should realise be that we have be able to reduce tariff on load of product — thousand of product — from across the world , which also help to reduce price and tackle inflation . I welcome this statement on the Government ' s progress on business and trade . it be fantastic news to hear that the UK have be the fourth big exporter in the world . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Kenya , I have be meet british business regularly to well understand how the Government can help they to export to that key market . during my most recent visit to Nairobi , I have be focus on deliver the UK ' s flagship project , include Nairobi Railway City and the High Grand Falls dam . will my right hon . friend continue to remove barrier for british business to ensure that they can grow their export to key market such as Kenya ? first , I thank my hon . friend for all her work as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Kenya . she will know that official have be engage with their kenyan counterpart to progress work on market access barrier , include work closely with UK industry and Kenya ' s Anti - Counterfeit Authority to address the issue face british exporter . we be do a lot of work to deepen collaboration between the UK and Kenya , which want our expertise , especially in important sector such as healthcare and financial service . I hope that I will be able to work far with my hon . friend to deliver more trade between the two country . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her positivity , which be encouraging for the House , for the country and for this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I ask this question constructively . figure have show that from 2021 to 2023 there be a slight decrease in the number of new job create in the United Kingdom . what discussion have she have with the Department for the Economy , and the NI Assembly , about Northern Ireland ' s contribution to create new employment in 2024 - 25 , so that the figure can remain on the increase , as they do in the year prior to 2021 ? I think the point that the hon . Gentleman be make be that we can not be complacent about what be happen in either country . even as we talk about good news , we need to continue work to ensure that those thing do not disappear . he be right that we should do as much as we can with the Department for the Economy . now that a Minister be in place , it will be a lot easy for we to co - ordinate and see how we can work together to increase employment and improve wage and productivity in both region . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . it be particularly encouraging to hear the news about the manufacturing sector . however , as she will be aware , if growth in that sector be to be maintain , continued Government support will be need . will it be forthcoming ? we have put in place a £ 4 . 5 billion advanced manufacturing plan for the manufacturing sector . firm will need to ensure that they qualify for that funding . we be also do what we can to bring in investment — especially foreign investment — which will help to drive productivity . it be good to see that business and investor globally want to invest all across the UK , not just in London , and not just in financial service but in manufacturing , certainly , and in our green industry of offshore and renewable . there be so much that we can do that will create industry and company fit for the future . I congratulate my right hon . friend on ensure that these superb trade figure be bring to the attention of Parliament . trade between the UK and Morocco have grow consistently since the entry into force of the UK - Morocco association agreement just last month . a UK consortium win the tender to design the Casablanca stadium for the 2030 World cup , which will be the second large stadium in the world by seat capacity . do she agree that it be thank to Brexit that we can forge such one - to - one trade agreement that be of real benefit to british business , and do she share my view , as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Morocco , that we should continue to prioritise work with Morocco , which be a dynamic and grow trade partner ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we should continue to prioritise trade with Morocco and country like it . I remember that when we have a tomato shortage in western Europe , Morocco be one of the country that have cheap supply , and we can drop tariff on such product when shortage be affect all of western Europe , not just the UK . so much flexibility come of be able to have our own independent trade policy . I pay tribute to he for his work as trade envoy to Morocco , as I should have do to my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) for his work as trade envoy to the western Balkans . there be so many trade envoy in the Chamber today , and I be grateful for all their work to support our Department and deliver the good news story that we be talk about today . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , particularly with regard to growth in manufacturing and export . Great Grimsby have a huge amount of opportunity in carbon capture and storage , as well as in our UK seafood processing industry , which be the big such cluster in the country . do she attribute some of the develop growth to UK freeport , one of which be in Grimsby ? I look forward to welcome she very soon . yes , freeport be another policy that have come about from our ability to leave the European Union . we be do everything we can to bring in that investment . carbon capture and storage be one area in which we think the UK can lead . we have the expertise and a lot of the talent and skill . many of the people who want to understand that technology be come to the UK . I hope that we can do more for my hon . friend and her constituent in Great Grimsby , and I will look into what we can do to ensure that I or another Minister come to see the good work take place there . I hugely welcome the upbeat nature of this statement and the Secretary of State ' s reference to Britain join CPTPP . Snowdonia Cheese , which be base in my constituency , also look forward to the UK ' s accession to CPTPP and the generous , tariff - free access to the canadian and mexican market that it will bring . it be understand that that access may be available as soon as later this year , so would my right hon . friend kindly ask one of her official to get in touch with that company to keep it update on progress ? I be very happy to do so . my hon . friend be right that our accession to CPTPP be carry on : as he know , we have ratify the Bill in Parliament , and three of the CPTPP country have complete their own process — there be only a handful to go — so I do think this be something that will be possible . I will arrange for official to meet representative of the business in my hon . friend ' s constituency to have that conversation . we be in the Chamber to talk about the progress of british business , so it be tell that Labour mp have not bother to show up . if today ' s Financial Times be to be believe , that be because they be desperately try to find business to talk about the late reversal of Labour party policy , which be on Labour ' s very damaging approach to the labour market . its approach would place additional law on business that would stifle enterprise and hand out more bung to its paymaster in the trade union , so do my right hon . friend agree that the right way to back british business be to get the right regulation , not the stifle legislation that the Labour party would put in place ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we be do so much to get our regulatory environment right , and I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do in this area . I know it be something that he care about , and I thank he for many of the suggestion and much of the advice that he have provide to I . the right regulatory environment can and will deliver growth . I be terrify by some of the thing that I see the Labour party put forward , and business do not like they either . those flexible right from day one would mean that if a business employ someone and they do not turn up to work on their first day , that business could not sack they , which would be a disaster . we have do so much on labour right , but it be not the area that be go to deliver growth , certainly not with the policy that Labour be put forward . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , particularly when it come to manufacturing and export . I thank she personally for the time she take yesterday to meet Johnson Tiles , Churchill China and Steelite — great manufacturer of ceramic in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke — as well as Rob Flello , the chief executive officer of Ceramics UK . despite what have be a very challenging time for the industry , particularly due to the rise in energy price spark by Vladimir Putin ' s illegal and immoral war in Ukraine , can the Secretary of State assure I that the ceramics industry will be able to take part fully and play a big role in ensure that we export the very good of Britain around the world , particularly through future free trade agreement with country such as India ? yes , that be right . with our fta , we be try to ensure that we deliver for business ; if business be not happy , those fta will not work . the fta be go to be use by business , not by politician — it be not about the photo that be take . I thank my hon . friend for the meeting he organise yesterday with representative of the ceramics industry and ceramic producer in his constituency . we understand the difficulty that they face , with energy cost have rise follow the war in Ukraine , and we be do everything we can ; I talk about the supercharger , which should help to deliver for those who be electricity user . we understand the change and burden that net zero be place on those business , and be do everything we can to mitigate they as we try to deliver that target . like all of my colleague , I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement , and very much welcome her focus on the balance of trade . we do not talk enough about that ; we forget that until 1997 , this country have a broadly neutral or positive balance of trade , but between 1997 and 2010 , that balance go very negative . we have struggle to restore that balance , which have make we dependent on foreign debt and our economy fragile , so I very much welcome these figure — it look like we be turn the tide . I also welcome my right hon . friend ' s focus on manufacturing , which have a very important part to play in our balance of trade , but we must not forget about the small manufacturer . she have rightly focus on the large one , but nearly 6 , 000 job in my constituency be dependent on export . what help be available from the Government to help small manufacturer , which often face more barrier to export , to also be part of this excellent recovery ? my hon . friend make a very good point . through our export strategy , we be do a lot to provide support for business that may not be familiar with export or that need additional help . we do that work with our trade commissioner in every region around the world , as well as with international post . one thing we have say in the Department for Business and Trade be that this be the year of the small and medium - sized enterprise . quite a lot of the time , the news that we give be about the big billion for the FTSE 100 company , but most people who work in this country work for small and medium - sized business . that be one reason why we want to reduce the threshold at which they count for the purpose of corporate reporting and regulation , which should make their life easy and give they few barrier to trade . it will help they to improve their export , as well . Bill present russian State Assets and Reconstruction of Ukraine Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rehman Chishti , support by David Morris , Afzal Khan , Dr Matthew Offord and Henry Smith , present a Bill to make provision about the seizure , freezing and transfer of russian state asset ; to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for the use of such asset for the reconstruction and rebuilding of Ukraine , include an assessment of the need of Ukraine ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time Friday 17 May , and to be print ( Bill 211 ) . Road Traffic ( Testing of Blood ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend section 7a of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to provide that a speciman of blood may be subject to a laboratory test without the permission of the person from whom it be take ; and for connected purpose . since I be elect in 2019 , my team and I have deal with thousand of case to support my constituent across Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke . however , no case have be as move and upsetting , or have have as much of an impact in the community , as the tragic death of six - year - old Sharlotte - Sky Naglis on 19 June 2021 . Sharlotte be out for a walk with her father along Endon Road in Norton Green to get some sweet when she be hit and kill by John Owen , who be two time over the drink - drive limit with class a drug in his system and speeding while on his phone . the impact on the local community be impossible to overestimate . I know that friend of Sharlotte still fear cross the road or walk to school by themselves — a milestone that , as any parent know , be an essential part of grow up — and I know of parent who be so much more concerned about their child go out to play because of the fear that the same thing could happen to their love one . as a father myself , I be humble every time I work with Sharlotte ' s brave and inspirational mother , Claire Reynolds . although she sadly can not be with we today as she be recover from surgery , she have not stop try to get justice for her daughter . Claire and I first start work together after John Owen be give a shockingly lenient sentence . the judge , who tell Mr Owen that he be " an accident wait to happen " , sentence he to just six year and four month in prison , where he would only serve two and a half year behind bar . Claire , Sharlotte ' s family , and I believe it to be an insult that the criminal who kill Sharlotte would spend less time behind bar than Sharlotte be alive . however , I pass on my thank to the Secretary of State for Justice for support Claire and I by block the ludicrous and affrontive suggestion that John Owen could have be move to a category d prison after serve just 12 month of his sentence . that would have rub more salt into the wound of all those close to Sharlotte , and I be grateful that that sicken move do not go ahead . while we be unable to increase John Owen ' s sentence , what Claire and I want more than anything be to leave a lasting legacy in Sharlotte ' s name . we seek to amend section 7a of the Road Traffic Act 1988 by introduce Sharlotte ' s law . this legislative change have one simple intention : to put victim of road traffic incident and their family first . under the current legislation , blood sample can be take without consent when someone be unconscious and have be involve in a fatal collision . however , those blood sample be not allow to be test unless that individual give their consent . that not only delay the conduct of the police investigation , but more importantly , it prolong the pain for victim who be desperately seek answer . Claire tell I that her experience be like torture : for eleven week , the family wait , not know whether John Owen would wake up and be hold accountable for his crime , nor when they would get answer about what lead to Sharlotte ' s life be take . to add further confusion , if an individual regain consciousness but refuse consent for the blood sample to be test , they will be guilty of fail to allow testing and will receive up to two year in prison . however , if that individual have take substance or consume alcohol to a certain limit that would act as a more serious aggravating factor and could increase their sentence beyond that additional two year , we could perversely end up with testing of blood sample be refuse so that the accuse could try to get a less sentence . simply put , this Bill seek to achieve a tidying up of the law , enable answer to be gather by the police much more quickly , avoid potential evidence become contaminate and give answer to the victim by state in law that , once a blood sample be take , it can be test . this seem particularly uncontroversial , especially as the most intrusive part of this process — the blood sample be take — be already legal . Claire have be so brave and courageous since her daughter pass away , and it be a testament to her selflessness , strength and resilience that , in spite of all that have happen , she be prepared to fight for justice and ensure that no other family experience the same fate as hers . the petition support Sharlotte ' s law have have more than 5 , 500 signature . we have receive the endorsement of lead drink - drive charity such as Brake , SCARD and the campaign against Drink driving , as well as the unanimous support of Stoke - on - Trent City Council , Staffordshire ' s police , fire and crime commissioner , Ben Adams , and the Sentinel newspaper . Claire and I have meet the Lord Chancellor and the former Roads Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , to discuss our campaign . I be pleased last week to meet the current Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) — who update I on the upcoming call for evidence and consultation for victim of drink - drive incident . this be absolutely vital because victim of these tragic case need to be able to explain how it feel when the law be work against they . however , have be inform late last year that this process would be start imminently , I urge the Minister to provide a specific timeframe for when this will take place . victim of drink driving incident need to be prioritise , and this can not come soon enough . I hope that during the process , when it come , the Minister and his official will back Claire and I in our ambition to put victim first , and to change to section 7a of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to introduce Sharlotte ' s law . before I conclude , I would like to take this opportunity to praise the hard work of Councillors Dave Evans and Carl Edwards , as well as the Norton Green Residents Association , who have relentlessly campaign since this very tragic accident for new measure to slow down traffic along Endon Road to keep resident safe . I be extremely proud that this Bill have the support of member from across the House . this place always work far well when we work together , and I want to thank my right hon . and hon . friend who be back this important legislation . this law be imperative . the trauma and torture of lose a love one be impossible to imagine , let alone when it then appear that the law be block someone ' s hope for justice . I want to see this legislation change for Sharlotte and other victim of these heinous crime , so that when their family , friend and community go through untold grief , they can have confidence that the legal system will protect and support they , not the monster who get behind a wheel with no thought for anyone else . More than anything , Claire Reynolds , who see the murderer who kill her six - year - old daughter put away for just two year after go through eleven week of pain in not know what put he behind the wheel on that day , deserve to see the law change so that no family suffer as hers do . if anything , her selflessness deserve it . question put and agree to . order , that Priti Patel , Sir Brandon Lewis , Dame Karen Bradley , Jack Brereton , Jo Gideon , Sarah Champion , Jim Shannon , Andy McDonald , Lee Anderson , Cat Smith , James Wild and Jonathan Gullis present the Bill . Jonathan Gullis accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 210 ) . Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Seventh Report of the Transport Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , self - drive vehicle , HC 519 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 264 . ] New Clause 1 - report on use of personal datum in relation to automate vehicle " ( 1 ) within one year of the day on which this Act be pass , and every year thereafter , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report on the use of personal datum collect from automated vehicle . ( 2 ) the report in subsection ( 1 ) must cover but need not be limit to — ( a ) level of compliance with datum protection legislation within the automate motor industry , ( b ) instance where the Secretary of State have make regulation under section 42 ( 3 ) of this Act ( protection of information ) , and the impact of those regulation on personal datum protection , and ( c ) any significant trend in the collection of personal datum and whether further action be need to regulate the collection of personal datum . " — ( Wera Hobhouse . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the collection of personal datum from automated vehicle . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — consultation with the Information Commissioner ' s Office in relation to personal datum — " before make regulation under section 42 of this Act ( protection of information ) , or any other regulation or requirement in relation to the provision of personal datum in automate vehicle , the Secretary of State must consult the Information Commissioner ' s Office . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult the ICO before make regulation in relation to the provision of personal datum relevant to automate vehicle . new clause 3 — establishment of an Advisory Council — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , establish a council to advise on the implementation of this Act , with a focus on learn lesson from any accident involve automated vehicle . ( 2 ) the Advisory Council must include representative from — ( a ) consumer group ; ( b ) organisation represent driver ; ( c ) road safety expert ; ( d ) relevant business such as automobile manufacturer , vehicle insurance provider and provider of delivery and public transport service ; ( e ) trade union ; ( f ) the police and other emergency service , include Scottish and Welsh emergency service ; ( g ) highway authority , include Scottish and Welsh highway authority ; ( h ) group represent people with disability ; ( i ) group represent other road user , include pedestrian and cyclist ; and ( j ) group represent the interest of relevant employee include delivery provider , those involve of likely to be involve in the manufacture of automate vehicle , emergency service worker , and public transport worker . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must designate a relevant officer of the Department to send report to the Advisory Council on the roll out of self drive vehicle and any issue of public policy that arise . ( 4 ) the Advisory Council must include nominate representative of the Scottish Government and the Welsh Government . ( 5 ) the Advisory Council must report regularly to — ( a ) Parliament , ( b ) the Scottish Parliament , ( c ) Senedd Cymru on the advice it have provide , and any related matter relevant to the roll out of self drive vehicle and associate public policy . " new clause 4 — accessibility information for passenger in automate vehicle — " after section 181d of the Equality Act 2010 , insert — ' chapter 2b automate vehicle provide automate passenger service 181E Information for passenger in automate passenger service ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may , for the purpose of facilitate travel by disabled person , make regulation require provider or operator of automate passenger service to make available information about a service to person travel on the service . ( 2 ) the regulation may make provision about — ( a ) the description of information that be to be make available ; ( b ) how information be to be make available . ( 3 ) the regulation may , in particular , require a provider or operator of an automate passenger service to make available information of a prescribed description about — ( a ) the name or other designation of the service ; ( b ) the direction of travel ; ( c ) stop place ; ( d ) diversion ; ( e ) connect local service . ( 4 ) the regulation may , in particular — ( a ) specify when information of a prescribed description be to be make available ; ( b ) specify how information of a prescribed description be to be make available , include require information to be both announce and display ; ( c ) specify standard for the provision of information , include standard base on an announcement be audible or a display be visible to a person of a prescribed description in a prescribed location ; ( d ) specify form of communication that be not to be regard as satisfy a requirement to make information available . ( 5 ) regulation under this section may make different provision — ( a ) as respect different description of vehicle ; ( b ) as respect the same description of vehicle in different circumstance . ( 6 ) before make regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Welsh Ministers ; ( b ) the Scottish Ministers . ' " this new clause mirror exist provision in the Equality Act 2010 relate to the provision of information in accessible format to bus passenger and apply they to automate passenger service . new clause 5 — Publication of list of information to be provide — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , by regulation , make provision for the publication of a list detail — ( a ) the information relate to the datum for authorisation of automate vehicle which must be provide ; ( b ) the party by whom such information must be provide ; ( c ) the party to whom such information must be provide ; and ( d ) the purpose for which the information must be provide . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for the content of the list to be subject to public consultation . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a list of information which be to be provide to and by certain party on the operation of authorise automate vehicle , and to hold a public consultation on the list . new clause 6 — liability of insurer — " section 2 of the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 ( liability of insurer etc where accident cause by automated vehicle ) be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , leave out " when drive itself " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , leave out " when drive itself " . " this new clause would remove the need for people to have to prove that an automate vehicle be " drive itself " if they make a legal claim for compensation under Section 2 of the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 . amendment 8 , in clause 6 , page 5 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) a person may not be an authorised self - drive entity unless they meet the following requirement — ( a ) they have obtain a certificate of compliance with data protection legislation from the Information Commissioner ' s Office for their policy in regard to the handling of personal datum , ( b ) their policy in regard to the handling of personal datum clearly outline who have ownership of any personal datum collect , include after the ownership of a vehicle have end , and ( c ) they be a signatory to an industry code of conduct under the UK General Data Protection Regulation . " this amendment seek to probe a number of concern around data protection and ownership and seek to prevent authorisation of company as self - drive entity unless robust personal data practice be in place . government amendment 1 and 2 . amendment 6 , in clause 50 , page 33 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must obtain and lay before Parliament the write consent of the Scottish Government to make regulation under this section which amend — ( a ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament , ( b ) any instrument make under an Act of the Scottish Parliament . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must obtain and lay before Parliament the write consent of the Welsh Government to make regulation under this section which amend — ( a ) an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru , ( b ) any instrument make under an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to obtain the consent of devolve government before exercise the clause 50 power in relation to devolve legislation . amendment 7 , page 33 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Government before make regulation under this section which amend — ( a ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament , ( b ) any instrument make under an Act of the Scottish Parliament . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Government before make regulation under this section which amend — ( a ) an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru , ( b ) any instrument make under an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to consult the devolved government before exercise the clause 50 power in relation to devolve legislation . government amendment 3 to 5 . I have table three amendment that seek to strengthen the provision make for datum protection in the Bill . new clause 1 would require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the collection of personal datum from automate vehicle within one year of the day on which the Act be pass and every year thereafter . this report must cover " level of compliance with datum protection legislation within the automate motor industry , … instance where the Secretary of State have make regulation under section 42 ( 3 ) of this Act … and the impact of those regulation on personal datum protection , and … any significant trend in the collection of personal datum and whether further action be need to regulate the collection of personal datum . " for sustained public confidence in automate vehicle and the data protection issue that arise , it be important that we have this continue monitoring and reporting . with a new technology , it be inevitable that new issue will arise over time , particularly as automated vehicle learn and change their behaviour accordingly . the reporting be necessary to keep the regulation on datum protection under review as the technology develop . the Government must give further assurance in the Bill that people ' s personal datum will be protect before this Bill become law and commit to the annual reporting set out in this new clause . this Bill would also be strengthen by new clause 2 , which would require the Secretary of State to consult the Information Commissioner ' s Office before make regulation in relation to the provision of personal datum relevant to automate vehicle . as I have mention , new clause 1 would maintain monitoring of the provision make for datum protection , and new clause 2 would make this monitoring and reporting process easier , as advice can be take from the ICO rather than use parliamentary time . again , this will instil public confidence in the legislation as the advice will come from an independent body . in order to operate , automate vehicle must be able to collect datum , and much of this datum will be personal . the information collect will help to make av safe as the system learn more about the road and those use it . strengthen the process of how any change to future protection be make will again assure the public that their personal datum will be secure . further assurance would be give by amendment 8 , which seek to probe a number of concern about data protection and ownership , and seek to prevent the authorisation of company as self - drive entity unless robust data practice be in place . this amendment would ensure that a person may not be an authorised self - drive entity unless they meet the following requirement : " they have obtain a certificate of compliance with data protection legislation from the Information Commissioner ' s Office for their policy in regard to the handling of personal datum , … their policy in regard to the handling of personal datum clearly outline who have ownership of any personal datum collect , include after the ownership of a vehicle have end , and … they be a signatory to an industry code of conduct under the UK General Data Protection Regulation . " I would be very interested , with regard to the latter new clause , if the hon . Lady could explain why she feel — or what feedback or evidence she have to think — that the safety regulation system that be put in place will be inadequate to handle the concern she raise . on Second Reading , I think I be very positive about the Bill ' s introduction , and I see it as the bright new future , but we should be careful to ensure we be take people with we . as I have say , this be basically about make sure that people feel confident that their personal datum be really handle in the most secure way possible . I have table the amendment to provide assurance for the public that the Government and everybody involve in this bright new future will really take a very careful look at all datum protection measure . if I may quickly respond , give that this Bill have have a remarkably untroubled passage through both Houses to date and that both Houses be inform by enormous amount of information from relevant party and member ’ constituent , have she any such reason ? I think what she be say be that she have no reason , apart from a general worry about consent , to think that what she be talk about will be necessary , because she have no reason to think that the regulator will not be able to take this stuff into account when it come to a review ? we will not push new clause 1 to a vote , but I want the Government to ensure that all necessary and possible protection be be put in place . this issue have be debate several time , but we be look into the future and who know what the future hold ? we know that people be increasingly worried about their personal datum , and that sometimes regulation be not as robust as possible . this be basically a plea to the Government to ensure that all possible assurance be in place . there will inevitably be a huge overlap between personal and commercial datum with the roll - out of automate vehicle . personal datum should be ringfence and access restrict so that it can be use only by the relevant party in a pseudonymise form . we must consider question such as how insurance company will be able to access datum . for example , could insurance company track someone ' s movement in an av to raise insurance premium ? if a person be a regular visitor to hospital or mental health clinic , that datum would be attractive for insurance company — that be an answer to the question from the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) . datum sharing be still not as protect as some may wish , and the amendment we have table be there to reassure the public . in the absence of such protection , different party might be able to share datum in an unregulated way . we must ensure that the Bill do not lead to the marketisation of people ' s datum . I be also concerned that the Government have not provide adequate protection for disabled people in the Bill . alongside the provision set out in new clause 1 for continued reporting on datum protection from the Minister , the establishment of an advisory council as set out in new clause 3 would give disabled people assurance that they must be consult if access issue arise . the Bill take the first step towards the creation of a framework within which automate vehicle can operate . new clause 1 and 2 would ensure that strong datum protection be in place from its beginning . as I say on Second Reading , I be otherwise supportive of the Bill . it be an issue we need to consider for the future , and I be glad that the Government be introduce the Bill . I rise in support of new clause 1 and 3 , which be base on measure that we table in Committee . I will also speak to amendment 6 and 7 that stand in my name and those of colleague in Plaid Cymru , but I will not detain the House too long as it be clear that there be broad agreement on the wide principle of the Bill and the implication of the detail in it , notwithstanding the amendment . as a member of the Transport Committee , it have be clear to I for some time that this framework legislation be require . by and large the Government have do a good job , with the sector largely content and no real opposition in this place to the vast majority of the Bill — [ interruption . ] okay , I will change that to " a decent job " ; the Minister be too grateful . that say , I must return to the issue around clause 50 , which give the Secretary of State power to legislate on devolved matter . that may not be the Bill ' s intention , but the possibility remain a concern . I be grateful to the Minister for meet I to discuss the problem with clause 50 . in the end , the meeting come after Committee stage have conclude . that be disappointing , but it be a reflection of the wild agreement and consent on all side for the vast majority of the Bill , result in an extremely swift conclusion to the Committee . the Scottish Government and their Ministers and official have be engage with the UK Government and their Ministers and official on at least two occasion to discuss the implication for devolution of clause 50 , and the proper remit of both government . in Committee , the Minister be forthcoming about discuss matter far with the Scottish Government , and I thank he for that . I believe those discussion have take place . it would be helpful if the Minister give a commitment on the record on the Floor of the House that the Scottish and Welsh Governments will be consult fully before the relevant power in clause 50 be use by the Secretary of State . that be the case , would it not make more sense for the Government to accept amendment 7 , because that be all it seek ? the fact remain that it would be infinitely preferable to have a statutory basis for the change that the UK Government propose to make , and one that respect and acknowledge the legal framework that exist under devolution . in Committee , the Minister maintain the line that the legal advice he and his Government have receive indicate that these matter be all reserve , but the Scottish Government be clear that their similar advice indicate that the matter be devolve . my amendment would simply reflect the legal position as understand by the Scottish Government and outline by the Cabinet Secretary for Transport at the Scottish Parliament ' s Net Zero , Energy and Transport Committee last month . she say that " thing that relate to offence under devolve legislation and offence that would be part of devolved area , these be the area that the provision would allow the UK Government to legislate on or make provision for in the future . . . we think it ' s a genuine issue of concern . " in the same session , George Henry , national operation manager for road safety policy and education for Transport Scotland , say : " I will just try to provide an explanation or an example . there will be devolve legislation that have be bring in either by road authority or even through the Scottish Parliament that clause 50 allow the Secretary of State to change . that be the reason why we be not supportive of that . this Parliament — " that be the Scottish Parliament — " could make a decision to implement a measure for good reason — such as a low - emission zone in an area — that could potentially be change through clause 50 . " whether or not that be the intention , it give the Secretary of State the power to do that . I hope it be clear to the UK Government that this be not an issue of confected conflict — something we be often falsely accuse of — and there be clearly a desire to make the Bill work . equally , however , we need it to work for everyone , include the devolved administration . as I highlight in Committee , if the Government ' s objective be to ensure complete alignment between Scottish and english traffic law , that ship sail a long time ago . we have a different speed limit regime , different drink - drive law , and a different approach to road traffic regulation in general . Wales , too , have indicate different priority to England by , at least initially , roll out a national 20 mph speed limit . clearly there should be consistency across the island , where appropriate , about the basic framework under which automate vehicle will operate , and the devolve administration have work with their UK counterpart to make that happen . however , that can not be allow to undermine the devolved position with regard to enforcement of the law where the Bill will affect devolved law . the Minister have be forthcoming with I , include in Committee , about his commitment to constructive discussion with the devolved administration , and I welcome that again . however , with the great of respect for he , in around six month we be expect a change of Government and he will likely no long be there , and whatever pledge or commitment have be make can not bind his successor . we need a commitment in legislation that it would take an Act in this place to amend or scrap . amendment 6 would ensure that where devolve competence , such as those refer to in clause 50 , be at stake , the devolve Parliaments be guarantee their role as the provider or otherwise of legislative consent for this Parliament to legislate on their behalf , as have be the accept norm for devolve matter under the Sewel convention for nearly 25 year . amendment 7 would in essence codify the pledge make by the Minister in Committee about consult the Scottish Government . that be good , and I wait to hear his response to the debate . however , I believe a well solution with respect to devolution be amendment 6 , which would require a legislative consent motion to be pass by the Scottish Parliament , and indeed the Welsh Senedd , before a UK Minister could act , rather than just a consultation . I do not think that be particularly controversial . if there be such disparate view from legal adviser about where the line of devolve power lie , surely the UK Government , as a self - proclaim champion of devolution , would be happy to codify exactly where that line lie , and guarantee the Scottish Government and Parliament , of whatever political hue , the right to determine their own law and regulation around automate vehicle now and in the future . I will wait to see what representation the Minister make in his remark before decide whether to push amendment 6 or 7 to the vote . I call the shadow Minister . Labour have table four amendment at this stage of proceeding to build on the work in Committee . the context of the amendment be that the Bill follow four year of work by the Law Commission , which include three public consultation , and the commission ' s recommendation represent one of the most thorough piece of work that it have ever carry out . the Bill build on and provide further clarity to the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 , which originally set out the insurance framework for automate vehicle . it be the first piece of legislation to set out an insurance framework for the operation of automate vehicle . the Transport Committee publish a report on self - drive vehicle in 2023 , and its recommendation include a new legal framework in primary legislation . the development of automate vehicle have a number of potential benefit , and after lose our place as a leader in the development of the technology , the Bill can play its part in recover Britain ' s international position and establish one of the most robust framework for av in the world . let we remind ourselves of some of the potential benefit . automate vehicle could create a market worth £ 42 billion by 2035 , and 38 , 000 new job . they have the potential to make road safe , include for pedestrian and cyclist , by remove the human error that cause 88 % of road traffic incident . research from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders suggest that if automated vehicle be deploy in substantial number , 3 , 900 life could be save and 60 , 000 serious incident prevent up to 2040 . well road safety also mean significant saving for the NHS . research by AXA show that in 2022 , road traffic incident cost the economy £ 42 billion , of which £ 2 . 3 billion be a direct cost to the NHS in medical treatment and ambulance service . av can improve connectivity in area where our public transport be fail passenger . however , such an improvement need to be make alongside long - overdue improvement in bus service rather than see in isolation . well access to transport be important for a great many people , include in rural area , for old people and for disabled people . an Age UK study find that drive remain the most common form of transport for old people . Most US state , Germany and France be move forward with their own av framework , so it would be a mistake for the UK to fall far behind in an industry that could be worth £ 750 billion globally by 2035 . the UK be already run numerous automate vehicle programme , include those by Wayve , Oxa and Starship . let we consider where we be with the legislation in front of we and how we might build on the Bill . labour ' s four amendment cover the following issue : the establishment of an advisory council ; the accessibility format require of automated vehicle if use as public transport ; the requirement for the publication of a list of datum require to be supply ; and remove the need for people injure by an automate vehicle to prove that the vehicle be drive itself if they make a legal claim for compensation . let we start with new clause 3 . in Committee , the Minister say — multiple time , in fact — that he be in agreement on the need for proper consultation , and he insist that the Government will consult properly . however , there appear to be something of a gap between the Government ' s state commitment to consultation and what be happen in practice . for example , Government guideline on minimum engagement for AV trial do not currently specify that disabled people ' s organisation need to be consult . if the Minister agree on the importance of consultation , why be that not state in the Bill ? if I may say so , that be a remarkably weak criticism . as the hon . Member acknowledge , the Bill have be develop — I say this with a degree of ownership — over a considerable period of time , with enormous input from involved party . it be obviously of direct relevance to old people , people with difficulty with mobility and people with disability . the suggestion that somehow the Government have , by implication , neglect those constituency be wholly mistaken . I will give the right hon . member credit for his role in get the Bill to this stage , and he be quite right that the Bill largely have strong support on both side of the aisle and across society . I think it do set the framework , but there be concern about it , and this be one of they . I will far set out the evidence base for that , but before I do , I turn to the impact of deindustrialisation and its legacy of inequality , which have be sow into the fabric of our country . the failure to work with trade union mean that the voice of work people be ignore . community across the country be still pay the price for the reckless approach take . the Bill do not address directly the potential impact on job from the introduction of automate vehicle . automate vehicle must be use for public good , and consideration must include the future of job . as much of the detail will be address through secondary legislation , it be essential that union and other stakeholder be consult on it , not least to ensure a job transition . will the Minister clarify , once and for all , whether he and the Government will commit to consult trade union throughout the roll - out of automated vehicle , so that we avoid repeat over and over the mistake make in deindustrialisation ? labour ' s propose council would include a wide scope of group , include those represent people with disability , pedestrian , cyclist , emergency service , road safety expert , highway authority , public transport service , manufacturer , driver and insurance provider . I turn to the comment of the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) . transport for all have highlight that there be still no requirement in the Bill for disabled people to be consult or involve in develop the legislation , which be crucial because of how much of the detail will be finalise in secondary legislation . it have warn that if disabled people be not consult before this become statute , " inaccessibility could be become weave into the fabric of this new mode of transport , before it even hit the road . " what discussion have the Minister have with Transport for all to address those concern ? how do he propose combat the risk that it have outline ? the approach to new clause 4 be consistent with the approach that we have suggest in new clause 3 . new clause 4 mirror the provision in the Equality Act 2010 on provide information in accessible format to bus passenger , and apply they to automate passenger service , bring the Bill into line with the Bus Services Act 2017 . the question for the Minister be : if there be such provision in the Bus Services Act , why be there not in the Bill ? the point about consultation with disability group apply to new clause 3 and 4 . the Law Commission ' s report repeatedly stress the importance of co - production with disabled people , and recommend that an accessibility advisory council be establish . it seem odd that the Government accept many part of the Law Commission ' s report but not that one . I turn to new clause 5 and datum sharing . in Committee , the Minister recognise the significance of the availability of datum to investigator and insurance company . how do he plan to ensure that availability if there be no requirement for datum sharing in the Bill ? that be a concern for the industry . he say that safety datum will be collect by the vehicle , monitor by the operator , and scrutinise by the Government . will he explain how that approach will address the intricacy of insurance access and dispute resolution ? how will the approach avoid dispute between vehicle operator and manufacturer ? the Minister ' s response to the Committee be limit to the subject of share datum about safety concern . however , for the successful growth of this emerge market , competitive market condition be need , so in - vehicle datum can not be restrict to vehicle manufacturer , or withhold in real time from other market player . that be recognise by the Competition and Markets Authority in the guidance on motor vehicle agreement publish in June 2023 to accompany the Competition Act 1998 ( Motor Vehicle Agreements Block Exemption ) Order 2023 . the guidance state : " in particular , the advent of ' connected vehicle ' place supplier of motor vehicle in a privileged position , enable they to access and use vehicle information in a way which may restrict competition between they ( include their Authorised Networks ) and independent operator . " the Bill intend to allow the UK to be world leader in automate vehicle . however , our international competitor be make stride ahead of the UK ; they be hold comprehensive consultation to prevent anti - competitive practice by vehicle manufacturer , and undertake ongoing policy development . for example , the EU have extensively consult on this broad issue in address the regulation of datum under the propose EU Data Act . could the Minister therefore address the concern outline in new clause 5 ? on new clause 6 , a victim involve in a collision with an automate vehicle currently have to prove whether the vehicle be in self - drive mode at the point of collision . could the Minister explain how we can guarantee that victim will be compensate when the burden of proof be always on the claimant in a legal claim , and neither the Bill nor the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 change that ? could he provide absolute clarity on whether that be the case ? if it be , how will costly and lengthy legal dispute over insurance be avoid ? our four new clause and amendment be design to clarify matter and build on the framework of the Bill , which we support . I look forward to the Minister ' s response to my question . I thank the opposition party for their broadly positive approach throughout Second Reading and Committee . there be clear consensus across the House that we should embrace this new technology , give all the opportunity set out by the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) . I also thank my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) . as have be mention , he help steer the legislation through this place , and clearly still have great interest in the Bill , which I welcome . I will be brief . all the new clause and amendment apart from one be raise in identical form in Committee , and my comment will not change much from what I say then . by and large , we agree with their various objective , but we do not think they be necessary , and in a couple of case we think they be inappropriate . on new clause 1 , 2 , 5 and 8 , datum protection be clearly very important , and the Government support it , but the new clause largely duplicate measure that be already in the Bill , or in other legislation . this Government take protection of personal datum very seriously . it be an important issue and require careful consideration . the Bill do not seek to replace or change personal datum protection legislation , nor do it enable that legislation to be contravene . it be not a Bill about data protection . any change to data protection legislation be beyond the scope of the Bill . it be the role of the Information Commissioner ' s Office to regulate data protection issue . the ICO have an obligation to report annually to Parliament on the commissioner ' s activity . any report by the Department for Transport , such as that require by new clause 1 , would risk duplicate that work . also , the Department for Transport be not the data controller of information collect by regulated body , which mean that reporting would be inappropriate . the purpose of the Bill be to create a comprehensive and effective safety framework for self - drive vehicle . information may need to be share to achieve that ; public safety and security must come first . any regulation make under the power in the Bill that permit further sharing or use of information would be develop in discussion with stakeholder and subject to consultation , and would be lay before the House before come into force . that provide multiple opportunity for input into and scrutiny of proposal . regulation will also be subject to a data protection impact assessment . the Secretary of State already have a duty under article 36 ( 4 ) of the General Data Protection Regulation to consult the ICO on proposal for legislative measure . new clause 2 therefore duplicate a requirement already in law . new clause 5 be unnecessary because all information - relate regulation make under the power in the Bill will already be subject to consultation under the requirement of clause 97 . clause 14 specifically require that regulation that require information to be share by an authorised self - drive entity or license operator must specify the purpose for which that datum be to be share . it would be unnecessary and onerous to duplicate those publication and consultation requirement . turn to amendment 8 , the protection of personal datum will be consider alongside the detailed development of authorisation requirement . these requirement will be set out in secondary legislation and will be subject to consultation and impact assessment . the amendment would place an additional burden on industry over and above what be require under exist datum protection legislation , such as the legislation that cover the datum in our mobile phone . at present , a certificate of compliance be not mandatory under GDPR . in addition , the scheme refer to in the amendment be industry - lead and therefore not within the control of Government , so there be a risk that they would not achieve the intend result . on new clause 3 , the hon . member for Sefton Central talk at length about the inadequacy of government consultation . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire say , there have be incredibly extensive consultation throughout this process . I have count five different way in which we will ensure consultation and engagement . the Law Commissions of England , Wales and Scotland have be look at the issue for four year , and have be consult throughout . the Secretary of State for Transport , who have join we in the Chamber , and I hold a roundtable with a whole range of road user group , include group represent disabled people , about the impact of the legislation . I will also meet disabled group once the legislation move through this House to consider some of the issue . we recognise that engagement with all group , include the devolved Administrations , be incredibly important . the Bill will provide new power relate to technical safety requirement , which will be set out in statutory guidance and secondary regulation . there will be consultation on those requirement with stakeholder , include but not limit to the stakeholder identify clause 2 ( 4 ) . follow the passage of the Bill through the House of Lords , we have include a statutory requirement to consult the three group with the most direct interest when develop the statement of safety principle : road safety group , road user group and the self - drive vehicle industry . that be not a comprehensive list of those likely to be consult , but it show the breadth of the consultation . once in place , the safety requirement for authorisation , licensing and in - use regulation will be monitor and enforce by the Department for Transport and its motoring agency , on behalf of the Secretary of State . in line with all public body , the Department and its agency will be subject to scrutiny . in addition , there be an expert advisory panel on the Department ' s self - drive vehicle safety assurance work , which have be consult . it provide advice and challenge . the panel include representative from industry , academia and road safety group . we have give a non - statutory commitment to set up an accessibility advisory panel . the Bill establish a new independent no - blame incident investigation capability , which will ensure that we learn effectively from incident that involve self - drive vehicle . finally , the hon . member for Sefton Central will be reassure to learn that clause 38 already create a general monitoring duty that require the Secretary of State to publish an annual report on the performance of self - drive vehicle . I hope that all those engagement that I have make demonstrate that the Government share the hon . member ' s view that scrutiny of implementation and learning from experience be vital . all those future engagement be there , which be why new clause 3 be not necessary . on new clause 4 , accessibility be an incredibly important issue . I have make it clear , as have the Secretary of State , that accessibility be one of the strong argument for legislate for self - drive car . for many disabled people , particularly partially sighted or blind people , self - drive car could have an incredible impact on their quality of life . I thank the hon . member for Sefton Central for the new clause , but it replicate power hold by the Secretary of State on the provision of accessible travel information about bus to automate passenger service . automate passenger service provide a great opportunity to make travel more accessible and inclusive . under the Bill , we already have the power to mandate that information be provide to user in accessible format , through the permit condition . that be more flexible tool than the regulation . condition attach to individual permit can be adapt to fit a wide variety of service . some service may have alternative to the provision of accessible - format information ; for example , there may be a member of staff in a vehicle who can focus entirely on help passenger and provide that information . in addition , the Bill expressly require the appropriate national authority to consider accessibility in decision to grant permit . that ensure that accessibility consideration be build into service from the start . it enable innovation to come forward in this nascent sector , and operator to consider the good way for their service to be accessible and inclusive . finally , licensing and franchising authority will also be able to steer requirement about accessible information format . they can champion local need through their role in provide consent for grant permit . as a result , we do not think that new clause 4 be necessary . new clause 6 extend insurer first - instance liability for incident involve automated vehicle to all circumstance , even when an individual be drive . the compulsory insurance regime in the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018 be create to ensure that victim of incident cause by automate vehicle receive prompt compensation . the Bill amend the 2018 Act to ensure it apply to authorise automate vehicle . however , there be no change to the principle that insurer first - instance liability apply only when the self - drive feature be switch on . new clause 6 would create an unnecessary discrepancy in insurer liability for manual driving , depend on whether the vehicle have a self - drive feature or not . I therefore ask the hon . member for Sefton Central to withdraw new clause 6 . on the SNP amendment relate to clause 50 , we consider that the user - in - charge immunity be a reserved matter . indeed , the immunity will predominantly affect the application of reserved traffic offence , as the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) recognise . there be a limited range of devolve legislation in this area and immunity will have only a minor incidental impact on the Bill . we do meet to talk about it and we discuss it in Committee , but just to make it absolutely clear , this be not about what the traffic regulation be in Scotland — what the speed limit be , whether it be an offence to break the speed limit or drive in a bus lane . it be about whether liability rest on the driver or on the software company ASDE in a self - drive car . it therefore have no impact on direct legislation in Scotland . more generally , public understanding and confidence will be key to realise the benefit of self - drive vehicle . it be vital that we have clarity and consistency across Great Britain about how these vehicle can be use , and what individual ’ responsibility be . this be the first recommendation by the Scottish Law Commission and the Law Commission of England and Wales in their joint report . they state that they do not think the public would be able to understand different or partial immunity base on distinction between devolved and reserved law . the power in clause 50 be necessary to ensure clarity and consistency in the immunity ' s application . as the hon . Member acknowledge , I meet he and the Cabinet Secretary for Transport in the Scottish Government to talk about that . I send a letter of assurance afterwards and I repeat what I mention in that letter . I assure he that where we propose to use the regulation - make power in clause 50 , we will always consult with the Scottish Government and with other devolved administration . I understand that the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) wish to withdraw new clause 1 . be that correct ? I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . clause 43 - fee Amendments make : 1 , page 29 , line 19 , after " State " insert " or by a traffic commissioner " . this amendment correct a draft omission , by allow no - user - in - charge operator licensing function confer on traffic commissioner to be take into account in set fee under Part 1 . amendment 2 , page 29 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) money receive by a traffic commissioner as a result of regulation under section 13 must be pay into the Consolidated Fund in such manner as the Treasury may direct . " — ( Anthony Browne . ) this amendment be one of two that clarify what happen to fee , penalty or cost under Part 1 if they be make payable to traffic commissioner by regulation . clause 89 - Procedural and administrative matter Amendment make : 3 , page 63 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 7 ) make by the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh Ministers — ( a ) if they apply to a function in respect of which a fee be payable , must also apply to the function of charge and receive that fee ; ( b ) if they apply to the function of issue a notice under paragraph 1 or 2 of Schedule 6 ( compliance notice and monetary penalty notice ) , must also apply to the function under paragraph 4 of that schedule ( cost notice ) so far as exercisable in connection with the first function . ( 9 ) money receive by a traffic commissioner as a result of regulation under subsection ( 7 ) must , unless subsection ( 10 ) apply , be pay into the Consolidated Fund in such manner as the Treasury may direct . ( 10 ) money receive by a traffic commissioner under paragraph 2 ( 2 ) of Schedule 6 ( monetary penalty ) as a result of regulation under subsection ( 7 ) make by the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh Ministers must be pay to those Ministers . " — ( Anthony Browne . ) this amendment make provision about fee , penalty and cost make payable to traffic commissioner by regulation under Part 5 . schedule 1 - enforcement action under Part 1 : procedure Amendments make : 4 , page 78 , line 7 , after " Part " insert " ( other than section 43 ( 1 ) ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 1 . amendment 5 , page 78 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) money receive by a traffic commissioner as a result of regulation under this paragraph must be pay into the Consolidated Fund in such manner as the Treasury may direct . " — ( Anthony Browne . ) this amendment be one of two that clarify what happen to fee , penalty or cost under Part 1 if they be make payable to traffic commissioner by regulation . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be go to say a number of thing , but the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Anthony Browne ) cover they in his response . I will resist the temptation , which be not often resist , to repeat they . all I will do by way of my remark be say a few thank yous . we be debate a Bill to have self - drive vehicle , but since we have not yet reach the point where we have self - drive Bills , I want to thank my hon . friend the Minister for his work in steer the Bill not just on Report today but through Committee . I thank the Chairs and the member of the Public Bill Committee for their work both in Committee and in take evidence . I also want to thank hon . member on both side of the House , even where there be difference on some of the detail , for their overall support for the Bill . the Bill be part of our strategy to ensure Britain be at the forefront of this exciting new technology ; to ensure that we can create well - pay , secure job in this country and lead this industry ; and to ensure that we have safe road , with technology which will contribute to an improvement in road safety and continue Britain ' s leadership in that position . I be grateful for the support of colleague and hope the Bill will be read a third time without a Division . I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State about the desirability of the Bill . we have have a very good series of discussion on it . I be grateful to the Minister for the way he have engage with all member who take part in Committee and the other stage . I add my thank on the record to the Clerks , the Law Commission , those who submit write evidence and the Minister for his response , through letter , after the Committee stage . I agree on the benefit of improve road safety and the potential economic opportunity that the introduction of automate vehicle provide . we look forward to the rest of the transport legislation come forward , in however many week the current Government may have , on e - scooter , e - bike and minimum standard for taxi in the transport Bill that they previously promise . but today we can agree that the Bill should get its Third reading and I be grateful to all who take part in its consideration . I thank the Clerks , the Chairs , the member of the Public Bill Committee and all those who submit evidence to it . as the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) say , the engagement by the Minister have be excellent . I will be keep a close eye on the Minister — and indeed his Secretary of State , who have come in at the last minute to steal his thunder on Third Reading ! — to ensure that the commitment make specifically with regard to clause 50 be meet . if they be not , they will be hear from I . [ laughter . ] may I say that , very far from the sentiment just express , the Secretary of State have be a very strong friend to the Bill from the very beginning ? have steer the Bill until the point where the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Anthony Browne ) take over , as he note , I pay tribute , as he have , to the quality of the work do by official at the Department for Transport and the Bill team . I remind the House that this be an extraordinary moment . we have take the next step in pioneer a technology , as a single polity , in advance of anywhere else . it build on the work do in 2019 , and presage a very important , safe and , in many respect in transport term , more prosperous future . I add my thank to everybody who work so hard to bring the Bill forward . as I have say before , the liberal Democrats have be very supportive . this be a brave new world and I assume that , as we go along explore the new technology , we will keep a very close eye on the data protection issue that I raise . this be not the end of the road ; it be the beginning , but it be an exciting beginning . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Immigration Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Immigration ( leave to enter and remain ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 March , be approve . — ( Mr Gagan Mohindra . ) question agree to . I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , and I commend the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Neath , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002939 ] UK Trade : Aviation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Paul Holmes . ) I thank Mr Speaker for grant I this debate on the importance of aviation to UK trade and to the future of our nation ' s economy more generally . let I start by declare my interest as the founder and current chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the future of aviation . I believe that aviation be a strategic enabler of the kind of export - lead , high - growth economy that member on both side of the House want to see . research be prepare by Manchester Airports Group and WPI Economics , of which I have be give advance sight , show not only the potential for the UK to become a service sector superpower but the way in which we , as an island trading nation , be disproportionately reliant on aviation in comparison with similar economy . my argument this afternoon be that we should recognise that the UK aviation network — the third large in the world — be a vital asset and a key component in the economy that we be seek to build far , and that we therefore need the right kind of supportive policy environment to help it to flourish . that include lean into the benefit and opportunity on offer from decarbonise aviation for the sake of environmental protection , go fast and far than other country precisely because of how much we have to gain economically from the sector , include the great british export business that rely on aviation for their own success . figure publish recently by the Office for National Statistics show a 63 % real - term growth in the export of service in the 14 year to the end of 2023 . as for good , the UK air freight contribution across all sector of the economy be more than £ 87 billion . against that backdrop and give that the UK be already the second large exporter of service after the United States , respected think - tank such as the Resolution Foundation be say that the path to transformative economic growth for the country lie in its become a service sector superpower , and strike up new service trade agreement with country such as Singapore , Japan and Australia . the World Bank recently conduct a survey in which it look at the future of world trade . it say that service be the area in which trade be mostly likely to grow and that Britain be very well place to take advantage of that , especially in the light of all the trade deal that we be do . my hon . friend be entirely right . the United Kingdom have a strong record of be a service economy , and we could go still far now that we have leave the European Union and be realise those trade deal , both trans - Pacific and involve other part of the globe . the UK should be sell more high - value service in area such as banking and architecture , in which we have a competitive advantage , to boost productivity and tax revenue and raise the trend rate of growth . in the light of that , Manchester Airports Group have commission WPI Economics to study the export growth potential of key sector such as technology and financial and professional service , in which — as my hon . friend have just point out — we clearly have great strength . give the UK ' s status as an island trading nation and our distance from some of the key export market that we need to target , the research be also explore the importance of aviation and international connectivity to the growth and trade prospect of british business in those sector . the research finding will be publish later this month and its publication will be mark by an event here in Parliament , but I be pleased to be able to share a few of the key headline with the House today . the sector in the economy that be most reliant on air travel , from real estate to finance and insurance , create or induce some £ 1 . 5 trillion of gross value add — or economic contribution — for the United Kingdom . key growth sector of vital importance to the economy and reliant on air travel , such as financial service , creative industry and real estate , be project to grow by 54 % , 25 % and 54 % respectively in the period to 2033 . in 2023 the UK be rank fourth out of 132 country in the global innovation index , and the researcher have find that innovation and international connectivity be positively correlate . if the UK want to grow an innovation - base economy with a concentration of knowledge - intensive industry , it must maintain and grow its direct connection with the outside world . the UK have be rank fourth in the global knowledge index — the global economy would lose almost 1 % of GDP be the UK not to send business traveller abroad — and in respect of the total value of export , add more than £ 900 billion to the british economy and support hundred of thousand of UK business . have more direct flight from the UK region to international destination could help to boost investment , trade , tourism and education opportunity as local business seek to leverage the additional connectivity at their disposal . in the north of England , for example , that could play a supportive role in the Government ' s levelling - up policy . as for London and south - east England , Gatwick airport ' s northern runway proposal would support more long - haul service , enable increase volume of cargo and service trade to and from key destination such as north America , the middle east and Asia . London ' s Heathrow airport account for more than £ 200 billion in UK trade pass through in 2022 , deliver a positive trade balance of more than £ 300 billion . business in these sector have be interview and have set out the role that international connectivity play , and will continue to play , across a range of key activity : secure investment , clinch deal , building , maintain and inspect global supply chain , and promote knowledge transfer . if we accept that business travel and a healthy , grow aviation sector be precondition for the type of service - lead economic growth that expert say the country should be go after , we need to be clear - eyed about the no . 1 strategic challenge that it face , namely the achievement of net zero in carbon emission by 2050 that be the Government ' s ambition . as the UK be disproportionately reliant on aviation to support growth , give its status as an island nation , we should lean into the economic benefit available from its decarbonisation , go far and fast than other country . the key technology to decarbonise aviation in the medium term be SAF , or sustainable aviation fuel , which can reduce lifecycle emission by 70 % in comparison with conventional jet fuel . the choice for this country be between import SAF from other country to decarbonise UK aviation and reach net zero by 2050 and invest in our own domestic sector , which provide a secure , home - grow supply of low - carbon jet fuel to build resilience into the economy and generate thousand of skilled job in the process . if we end up import SAF , we will be at the mercy of volatile international energy market and , in the event of global scarcity of supply , it will push up airfare , which in turn will push up the cost of do business for precisely those company identify in the research I refer to — company that UK business need to be travel and export more to grow our economy . it have to be say that last week the Government make a very positive announcement about measure concern SAF . first , they be enshrine a sustainable aviation fuel mandate , which mean that 10 % of all jet fuel need to come from low - carbon fuel by 2030 . secondly , they be consult on a revenue certainty mechanism , which could help to incentivise and encourage the building of SAF plant and infrastructure here in the UK . however , a wide package of policy support be need to create the right environment for this industry to take off , and for the UK to become a global leader . for example , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ' waste hierarchy need to be amend to secure domestic — or " black bin bag " — waste as a viable feedstock or input into make sustainable aviation fuel . use household waste to make green jet fuel be not just important because of the way it protect and help to sustain a strategic enabler in aviation ; research from transport sustainability expert ICF show that use such waste to make SAF , instead of its current use in incineration to produce electricity , would help cut UK carbon emission too . indeed , the reduction in carbon emission would be at least five time great , not least because nearly half of all electricity in the UK already come from renewable source — again , thank to the great stride that have be make over the last decade by this Government . a cross - departmental plan be need across Whitehall to recognise aviation ' s role in our make - up as an island trading nation , and in the type of economy we need to grow to become even more competitive . my suggestion to the Minister be that the Department for Business and Trade have a critical role to play in this plan because of the sector ' s role in underpin the success of service export on which this country ' s future prosperity rely . the UK do not have to choose between grow our economy through international travel , or travel less and protect our environment . by innovate and be global leader in new sustainable aviation fuel technology , we can increase our service and good sector , and be at the forefront of new green technology . we have some iconic british brand that have already demonstrate this . last November I experience the first transatlantic flight to use 100 % sustainable aviation fuel when Virgin Atlantic , headquarter in my constituency , fly from London Heathrow to John F . Kennedy airport in New York , power by Rolls - Royce Trent 1000 engine use sustainable aviation fuel . I believe that we should be optimistic about our future economy and our environmental protection , with Britain a global leader in both . may I pay tribute to my hon . friend ? he have be an extremely persistent advocate of the aerospace industry and Gatwick in all the year I have serve with he in Parliament . I be sure that if , after he retire , he go through all the meeting in his diary that he have about aviation , his life will whizz past he , because he not only always stand up for the industry , but think very carefully about where it need to go if it be to continue its success , grow and deliver the prosperity that our country need . I agree with my hon . friend that , have go through covid , many of we wonder whether the aviation industry would bounce back as quickly as it have do . I notice that Heathrow say the other day that it be busy than it have ever be . the last time I go to Gatwick , I get the same impression — it really be back on four cylinder now . we be very good at aviation . it be probably one of the legacy of the second world war , when a large amount of our gdp go into fighter , bomber and technology . post war , we have always punch above our weight in aviation . I be surprise the other day when I see some figure from the Treasury that show that half of all airliner sell across the world in an average year have wing make in Wales — of course , Airbus have half the world market . they be very good wing , and they provide some very good job . we still have Rolls - Royce punch above its weight and produce innovative engine , many of which be design to run on new fuel . it mean that the company be go to be a major player in future year . I do not think we will ever have a hub airport in the same way that other do . I have one observation for the Department for Business and Trade : some of the express railway to our airport go very slowly , and more investment in the link between central London and the airport would help the sector substantially . there be a great opportunity there . we have some really good airport circle London , and we have some very good regional airport , include Manchester and other . we have Bournemouth airport in Hurn , which be in the local authority of Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole . all the airport generate lot of job and opportunity , and there be a world of great competition out there . many other country be put in runway and terminal . they see the advantage of invest in aviation , and we have to keep up with they and continue to punch above our weight . I thank my hon . friend for what he have do for aviation . I look forward to hear what the Minister be go to say in response . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Henry Smith ) for introduce this debate , and for his work in establish and lead the all - party parliamentary group for the future of aviation . I be glad to hear he refer to the report by Manchester Airports Group and WPI Economics , which have do some important research . I wish they well for the launch of their report . my hon . Friend give an excellent speech , and he be right on so many count . the air transport sector be critical to the UK ' s success as a trading nation . its speed and efficiency give our exporter the edge and connect this country to the world , enable the face - to - face meeting that be the lifeblood of our world - lead service sector , as my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Sir Robert Syms ) rightly highlight . I entirely agree that the Government must keep strive to ensure that this vital sector thrive and continue to act as an enabler of global trade . as my hon . friend the Member for Crawley point out , the world be change fast . to succeed tomorrow , the UK ' s aviation industry need the right fundamental in place today . that be why my colleague at the Department for Transport have develop " Flightpath to the Future " , which be the Government ' s 10 - point plan to ensure that the UK continue to develop aviation as part of our critical national infrastructure . it be our blueprint to make sure that we have the skill , technology and infrastructure to deliver for aviation over the next 10 year . it will ensure that the UK maximise the benefit of aviation , deliver economic growth , increase trade and improved service for business and passenger . I also highlight that aerospace as a major export be , in its own right , integral to the UK ' s achievement as a trading nation , as my hon . Friend rightly say . it add some £ 11 billion a year to our economy and employ over 100 , 000 people across the country . factory in north Wales , Bristol , Derby , Prestwick and Belfast deliver critical component for the world ' s airliner and air freighter . almost every aircraft that hon . member have fly on relie on british engineering . I always find it inspire that roughly half the wing of all new commercial airliner be make in the UK and that a third of global aircraft seat be make in Northern Ireland . here again , we be strive to ensure that we keep our leading edge and seize the advantage of a jet zero future , which my hon . friend have so rightly highlight . that be why the government and industry together have create the Aerospace Technology Institute and the ATI programme , deliver long - term and predictable funding that allow industry - lead mid - stage R & D project to get off the ground . the ATI ' s objective be simple : grow the UK ' s share of the global aerospace market while reduce aviation emission . the result have be nothing short of transformative . consequently , the UK ' s aerospace industry ' s productivity have soar . thank to the ATI co - investment alongside industry , the UK be lead the Airbus Wing of Tomorrow programme , explore radical new approach to aircraft wing manufacture and design . we be also power ahead in the field of engine manufacture , with the world ' s most efficient jet engine — the Rolls - Royce UltraFan — on the horizon . the ATI have support over 400 R & D project worth £ 3 . 6 billion since it be found , help some incredible innovation develop by industry disruptor to take flight and attract foreign investor to these shore , include Boeing and Safran . give these achievement , it be only right that we continue to strengthen the UK ' s position in the global aerospace manufacturing sector , and in the Government ' s most recent autumn statement we extend the ATI programme budget for a further five year . in addition , our jet zero strategy set out our plan for achieve net zero aviation by 2050 . it include the new aircraft technology develop in partnership by industry and the ATI programme . there be clearly a bright future ahead . last year we get a glimpse of this promise — as my hon . Friend mention , he get more than a glimpse — when the first net zero flight cross the Atlantic power by Rolls - Royce engine and use 100 % sustainable aviation fuel . I turn next to airport , the beat heart of the UK ' s trading economy . already , the UK — and therefore its business — boast the third large aviation network in the world after the USA and China . as my hon . friend know , Gatwick continue to demonstrate incredible innovation with its exist asset , with the busy and most efficient single runway in the world . I know that there have be various proposal over the year to construct another runway at Gatwick , and I understand that Department for Transport Ministers will be look carefully at the late proposal . all our airport be support by our world - lead supply chain , which be at the forefront of digital innovation and sustainable technology when it come to develop airport ready for the future . for example , NATS , the UK ' s air navigation service provider , lead the way in provide next - generation solution to enhance airport capacity and performance . I reassure my hon . friend that my Department fully recognise the importance of airport in underpin the connectivity that be so vital to trade . we will continue to work closely with other Departments , particularly the Department for Transport , and airport stakeholder to encourage investment into the sector , while support our supply chain to export their expertise to the world . I also commend to the House our recent " future of Flight " action plan , which provide a strategic plan to deliver the economic , environmental and social benefit that could be unlock by exciting technology such as drone and electric vertical take - off and land aircraft . I want to thank my hon . friend again for his work as a passionate advocate for the aviation sector . I reiterate my thank to he for provide this opportunity to celebrate the achievement of aerospace and aviation in the UK and to discuss how this Government can even well support the sector and our exporter . the Government have a clear vision for the future of aviation in the UK . we see it as a critical enabler of trade long into the future , allow community across the country to benefit from the prosperity it bring . from Crawley to Havant , from Poole to Uxbridge via the Hamble Valley and across the entire United Kingdom , the future of aviation be bright . I thank my hon . friend for his leadership in this sector . question put and agree to . House adjourn .