Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — House Building Targets what plan she have to support council with house building target . the Government be support local planning authority to facilitate the delivery of more high - quality , well - design home , but we know that capacity be a problem with council and that be why we have also announce a £ 46 million package of investment to support capacity and capability in local planning authority , include 300 new planner and support to local authority with deliver their local plan and green belt review . we will also make change to planning fee so that council can recover the cost of planning application . in Waverley and East Hampshire , housing target from this Government be double . when my constituent move into those home when they be build , the infrastructure and service be simply not there . by " service " , I do not mean a phalanx of civil servant to help they move house ; I mean the school , play area , supermarket and road network . will the Secretary of State come to my constituency of Farnham and Bordon to see where we need that infrastructure , so that she can understand the implication that her housing target have for my community ? we know that we need infrastructure as part of our planning reform and the mandatory housing target that we have put forward , and this Government will make sure that that infrastructure be there . I would say to the hon . Gentleman that it be his Government who allow speculative housing development , who fail to meet their housing target and who leave people without the house they desperately need . we have a number of scheme for social housing in Cornwall that rely on the affordable home programme that end in 2026 . can the Secretary of State confirm that there will not be a gap in the provision of funding so that the provision of those home can continue ? we have set out another £ 500 million for the affordable home programme and we will set out further requirement as we get to the spending review . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the increase in housing delivery that the Secretary of State be commit to require a 50 % uplift across the board in housing number , yet accord to the House of Commons Library , urban and major conurbation have see an increase of 17 % while mainly rural area be see an average increase of 115 % . how be that fair ? the shadow Secretary of State will know that our mandatory housing target be base on affordability and be introduce to ensure that people be able to get the house they desperately need . his government remove the mandatory housing target , we see speculative development , and they fail , year on year , to deliver the housing that this country desperately need . we be go to deliver the house where they fail . Leasehold Reform what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what assessment she have make of the potential merit of abolish residential leasehold . what step she be take to ensure that not - for - profit freeholder be accountable for their management practice . by the end of this Parliament , this Labour Government will have finally bring the feudal leasehold system to an end . on 21 November , I make a detailed write ministerial statement set out how the Government intend to honour that manifesto commitment , include the step we will take to implement reform to the system already in statute . every week my constituent in Poole , many of whom be retire , contact I with their concern about the leasehold property they live in . they be worried about excessive service charge , unfair ground rent , and exit and event fee . can the Minister reassure they and I that the Government will tackle those problem once and for all , and will do so as a matter of priority ? I sympathise with the plight of my hon . friend ' s constituent . with regard to service charge in particular , we know that opaque and unaffordable charge be put leaseholder and tenant across the country under immense strain . the Government be commit to improve service charge transparency and make it easy to challenge unreasonable increase . in the come month , we intend to consult on how the provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 relate to service charge and legal cost should be enact , with a view to bring those measure into force as quickly as possible thereafter . many of my constituent can not afford to buy their freehold under the current leasehold legislation . when do the Minister think the legislation to ensure that leaseholder can enfranchise easy , cheap and quick will come into force ? I fully appreciate the desire of my hon . friend ' s constituent to take advantage of the provision in the 2024 Act that will make it cheap and easy for exist leaseholder in house and flat to buy their freehold . unfortunately , we discover on assume office that the previous Government have pass the Act with a number of specific but serious flaw that prevent certain provision , include those relate to enfranchisement valuation , from operate as intend . we need to fix those flaw through primary legislation , and we intend to do so at the early possible opportunity . early this month , together with about 40 Labour mp , I meet the manage director of FirstPort . I raise the case of 90 - year - old Tom , who live in a retirement complex in Bingley in my constituency . like many of the resident whose story we share , he have be hit by extortionate service charge that have rise way above inflation . do the Minister agree that strong regulation of manage agent be need to protect pensioner like Tom and other in leasehold flat from unaffordable housing cost ? we be very much aware that some manage agent provide a very poor quality of service to people like Tom and leaseholder across the country . manage agent play a key role in the maintenance of multi - occupancy building and freehold estate , and their importance will only grow as we transition towards a commonhold future . as such , we have make it clear that we will strengthen the regulation of manage agent to drive up the standard of their service , and we be consider carefully the recommendation make in Lord Best ' s 2019 report on regulate the property agent sector . resident of a housing development in Maidenhead buy their property 10 year ago on 99 - year lease . now they be come to sell their flat , they be face with a charge of £ 15 , 000 to £ 25 , 000 each to extend their lease so that the new owner can get a mortgage . what will the Minister do directly to help those resident ? in term of lease extension , there be provision in the 2024 Act that will provide some assistance to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . as with other part of that Act , those provision , in many case , require a detailed programme of secondary legislation . in some specific circumstance , we can not switch on the provision until we have make the fix through primary legislation that I refer to in answer to a previous question , but we be work at pace . I be more than happy to have a conversation with he about what we be do in this area . resident live in Mytchett Heath , a retirement community in my constituency , have report the regular and repeat withholding of invoice , excessive insurance charge and £ 107 , 000 - worth of maintenance without any support rationale . all of this add up to a 70 % increase in service charge since 2020 . what be the Minister do to ensure that not - for - profit company such as Cognatum Estates , which be , to be very clear , not a social landlord , be hold to account ? will he accede to a meeting with I and resident of Mytchett Heath and other Cognatum leaseholder to understand the challenge and anxiety they face ? in addition to the measure I have set out , we intend to proceed with implement the service charge transparency provision of the 2024 Act so that resident in all tenure can more easily challenge unreasonable increase . I think complaint about not - for - profit freeholder can be make to the housing ombudsman . I be more than happy to hear more from the hon . Gentleman about the particular circumstance of this case and give he further advice . I thank the Minister for his reassurance to leaseholder , but what message do he have for freeholder , such as the resident of the Wolds View development in Driffield , who be trap at the mercy of an unaccountable management company ? will he legislate to protect not just future homeowner but those currently stick in these contract ? we be determined to end the injustice of fleecehold entirely , and we will consult next year on legislative and policy option to reduce the prevalence of such arrangement . we remain committed to protect residential freeholder on exist estate from unfair charge . similar to my previous answer , we need to implement the 2024 Act ' s new consumer protection provision and bring those measure into force as quickly as possible . that be our intention . second home : Use Class if she will make it her policy to introduce a new planning use class for second home . the Government recognise that excessive concentration of second home impact on the availability and affordability of home for local resident to buy and rent , as well as on local service . from April , council will be able to charge a council tax premium of up to 100 % on second home but , as the hon . Gentleman will know , we do not think this be enough . we be consider what additional power we might give local authority to enable they to well respond to the pressure they face . I be encourage by the Minister ' s reply . town and community in my constituency , such as Coniston , Hawkshead , Pooley Bridge and a whole range of other beautiful place , have so many second home that up to 85 % of property be not live in for most of the year , mean that the very survival of those community be under serious threat . the Government have do a number of thing , include talk about short - term let be a separate category of planning use . however , will the Minister agree to look at also make second home a separate category of planning use so that we can prevent these beautiful place from become ghost town ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the previous Government consult on make short - term let a different use class , but do not consult on second home become a use class . as part of our wide consideration about the additional power we might give local authority , I be more than happy to have a conversation with he . I understand that the pressure in his part of the world be particularly acute because of both second home and short - term let . UK Shared Prosperity Fund : Northern Ireland what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the UK share prosperity fund on local community in Northern Ireland . the UK share prosperity fund support people , business and community across Northern Ireland , and be an important part of this Government ' s local growth funding . the Department be commit to evaluate the impact of the fund , include in Northern Ireland . the UKSPF evaluation strategy be a publicly available document set out our approach , and the Department be commit to publish ongoing evaluation finding , as they become available . the voluntary and community sector in Northern Ireland have say that the reduction in share prosperity funding available in the next financial year , couple with the increase in employer national insurance contribution , present a perfect storm at a time when even more be be ask of it . will the Minister agree to meet I , member of the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary Action and representative of the voluntary and community sector to discuss those issue ? we inherit a situation in which the previous Government have not make any money available for that work . I have no doubt that the transition year create significant challenge for local organisation . I have visit the hon . Gentleman in South Antrim before and meet representative of some organisation , and I would be delighted to do so again . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . Cornwall ' s allocation from the share prosperity fund be good news and well need . the Government be rework the outcome for the share prosperity grant , and council such as Cornwall be await the memorandum of understanding for the grant before they can make agreement with provider . ongoing scheme need certainty , as employee with three - month notice period be rely on the contract , and the old SPF scheme expire on 31 March . will the Secretary of State confirm — order . that must obviously be connect to Northern Ireland when we look at it . I know that local authority from Northern Ireland to Cornwall be interested to know their allocation , information about which be make available to they in recent week , and that some have concern about make spending commitment . the money be there and have be commit , but my official be work — they have have conversation directly about Cornwall — to ensure that local authority have the confidence to make those commitment , so that we do not see 90 - day redundancy notice . High Street Rental Auctions what step she be take to support local authority on use high street rental auction to help regenerate town centre . I be very excited that high street rental auction be capture the imagination of local community and colleague in this place . a common view for all of we be that vacant shop be a blight and that high street rental auction be a great tool with which to tackle they . we be work with some early adopter , but I encourage all local authority to come forward and be active in this space . as of 15 January , we have make a £ 1 . 5 million fund available to support the delivery of those power across the country . Crewe town centre , in my constituency , be in desperate need of " new year , new I " . for too long , we simply have not have the tool at a local level to tackle the irresponsible , absent landlord preside over empty shop unit . for example , the old M & S unit be own by an absent landlord who have leave that crucial anchor unit in our town centre to go to rack and ruin . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can remove the obstacle to bring that crucial unit back into use ? I be sad to hear about Crewe ' s experience , but I know it be share up and down the country . Crewe have a proud record in the retail space and I believe it can have that again , but as my hon . Friend say , the right tool and power must be assemble to make that happen . I would be very happy to meet he . he be slightly unkind , because he know that Crewe town centre be the site of my big personal and professional embarrassment , some 17 year ago . provide I be still allow back in , I will very gladly meet my hon . friend . rickmansworth high street in my constituency be a thriving hub for the community , support by its fantastic local business . have speak to many of those dedicated business owner , I know the challenge they face . what step be the Minister take to support local authority in deliver initiative , such as high street rental auction , to help high street like the one in Rickmansworth ? we be aware that with new responsibility for local authority come new cost . local authority want to spend their money as effectively as possible , so we have make £ 1 . 5 million available , include to the hon . Gentleman ' s local authority , to ensure that they have the capacity to make these power a reality . private Rented sector : Housing Standards what step her Department be take to help improve housing standard in the private rent sector . we will deliver on our promise to transform the life of million of renter through our landmark Renters ' Rights Bill , which will make renting fair , more secure and more affordable by ban no - fault eviction , end bidding war and extend Awaab ' s law to protect private tenant . I be sure my hon . friend will agree that it be disgraceful that the Tories decide to play politic last week and try to vote down this vital Bill , which would have deny renter the protection they deserve . recent datum show that 75 % of private rent sector property in Blackpool have damp or mould , leave tenant to suffer unacceptable condition . I welcome the Renters ' Rights Bill , which will introduce a decent standard for home in the private rent sector . what step be the Department take to ensure that council have the resource they need to enforce those standard ? I be sorry to hear of the experience of many of my hon . friend ' s constituent . Most private landlord provide a good service to their tenant , but for the few landlord who fail to take reasonably practicable step to keep their property free from serious hazard , local council will be able to issue fine of up to £ 7 , 000 . that will allow local council to target their enforcement effectively on the small minority of irresponsible and criminal landlord . late last year , Bradenham parish council in my constituency contact I , concern that the National Trust , which own a high number of rental property in the village , be leave they empty and not put in new tenant to avoid the burden that the Government be place on landlord . do the Secretary State agree that there be a balance to be strike here , and what advice can she give area such as Bradenham , which face be an empty village ? the Government have take action . we will ensure that empty home be bring back into use . we make no apology for ask that home be of a decent and safe standard . People should be able to live in their home without the risk of hazard that be dangerous to their health . in my constituency , one of the big challenge for the private rent sector be the need to house family who be in temporary accommodation . it be very often a five - year tenancy ; sometimes it be long . such family really should not be in these sort of home , which be often overcrowded , lead to damp and mould , whatever the good intention of the local authority that house they . in order to improve standard across the board , will my right hon . friend pledge to ensure that we be push for much - need affordable social rent housing , so that those tenant can move into it , and other private tenant can move into these home , which will then be improve ? my hon . friend be right : 160 , 000 child and family be in temporary accommodation at Christmas . we need to build the social and council home that we desperately need so that people have a home for life , and stop local authority spend huge sum of money on temporary accommodation that do not help the life chance of those young people . during the last Parliament , I visit a family in Stanton Hill in Ashfield who live in a private rent property . it be disgraceful : the property have damp , electrical problem and flooding . not only be the property cover by the landlord licensing scheme ; the landlord be the leader of Ashfield district council . will the Secretary of State please remind council leader that if they or their councillor rent out private property , they should be hold to a high standard ? the hon . Gentleman highlight an issue across the board : we do not have decent home standard . we want to introduce they in not just the social rent sector but the private rented sector . we have see far too many situation where tenant be too frightened to come forward with mould , damp and health issue in their property . we have to ensure that those standard be uphold . it do not matter who it be or where it be ; people should have safe , secure home . affordable Housing what step she have take with Cabinet colleague to increase the supply of affordable housing . our plan for change set out that the whole of the Government be commit to the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation . the previous Government fail to take social and in particular council housing seriously . I be determined to put right that wrong . we have already take decisive step , include an injection of £ 500 million into the affordable home programme , our consultation on the rent settlement and reform to right to buy . we will set out more detail in the spending review . after 14 year of Conservative Government , Ealing council have thousand of family wait for a council home and have an affordable housing programme that it do not have the money to deliver . a report from Southwark council release on Sunday find that 71 % of council will have to delay or cancel house building project . will the Secretary of State look at way to finally make local council ' housing budget sustainable so that we can build the affordable home that my constituent in Ealing Southall desperately need ? my hon . friend raise an important point . since take office , we have set out a series of measure to support council to increase their capacity , confidence and motivation to invest in new home . we be provide £ 450 million to council to house some of the most vulnerable in society through the local authority housing fund , as well as inject an additional £ 500 million into the affordable home programme to deliver 5 , 000 new home . we be help council borrow from the Public Works Loan Board at a reduce cost until the end of 2025 - 26 . we need a steady supply of affordable home as well as home in the private rent sector . far to the question by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , it be easy to sound morally righteous while demand ever high standard , but if the housing market be wreck , ultimately it will be the tenant who pay . will the Secretary of State answer my hon . friend ' s question and tell we how she will ensure that the private rented sector remain investable so that tenant have somewhere to live ? a balance have to be strike . People need home that be safe . be the right hon . Gentleman say that they do not want to provide home of a decent standard ? the majority of landlord provide that decent home standard , and it be a few who do not . where they do not , they need to be hold accountable . local Growth Funding what discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on use local growth funding to help increase economic growth . what discussion she have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on use local growth funding to help increase economic growth . local growth funding be crucial to our growth mission and to tackle regional inequality . the Government will set out a refreshed approach to local growth funding at the multiyear spending review in the spring . that will end the beauty parade and short - term decision making and put local community in charge of their own destiny , just as we commit to at the general election . Ilford be a hub of regeneration , offer opportunity to independent business in new space such as Mercato Metropolitano . Ilford have thousand of small and medium - sized business that make our high street more vibrant and offer choice to local . what be the Government do to support those business so that they can thrive on our local high street ? as have be a theme of early question , revitalise our high street be a priority for this Government . we have announce a number of measure , include permanently lower business rate multiplier for retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 , introduce high street rental auction and provide additional funding to tackle retail crime , all of which will support business and our high street . the Ayrshire growth deal , worth over a quarter of a billion pound , have the potential to stimulate growth and create job across the region , yet local delivery of the ambition be slow and stagnant . what message would the Minister send to spark action from the three Conservative - SNP run administration in the region so that Ayrshire can realise its potential as a world - class business region ? I be sorry to hear that . for our part , the UK Government be work closely with local partner and the Scottish Government to deliver the Ayrshire growth deal , which , as my hon . Friend say , be worth over a quarter of a billion pound . as part of that , we be support a programme review so that , if any strategic change be need to ensure that the originally envisage benefit be realise , they be make . on the message that she ask for , we need to move at pace , exactly as the Government have commit to do , so that the people of Ayrshire get what be promise . the village and town of Mid Norfolk be reel from the cost of live crisis and the Government ' s taxis attack on job and small business . rather than tax rural area and spend the money in the city , may I suggest that minister allow rural council to keep the proceed of their growth and incentivise they to support business out in our rural community , rather than allow the Government to milk rural area to spend the money in city ? I can not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . this government ' s decision — whether on the support go into rural community and rural policing , or the different business rate reduction — show that we want to support business in those community to thrive , and we will continue to do so . I thank the Minister very much for his answer . he be a regular visitor to Northern Ireland , and that be because he love Northern Ireland and want to ensure that we play our part in the economic boost . since come into government , have he have an opportunity to speak to his Northern Ireland counterpart , to ensure that we can go forward together as we should ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind point . I have a strong personal enthusiasm for Northern Ireland — its potential be huge . I speak frequently to Ministers in the Northern Ireland Executive and will continue to do so . as part of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister ' s reset of our relationship with the devolved administration , we meet they regularly and plan together so that our investment and their investment get the good value . I will continue to do that , and I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman as well . I call the shadow Minister . we share the Government ' s ambition on local growth , but Companies House be report the high level of business closure in 20 year . will the Government commit to publish an assessment of the impact that their national insurance rise , business rate rise and change to business property relief be have on local growth plan ? I have no doubt that the opposition will have all the information they need to scrutinise the Government of the day — we always provide that with full transparency . what I will not accept be that the sand our economy be build on after the past four year , under the Conservative Government of the shadow Minister and the shadow Secretary of State , be somehow this government ' s failure . in reality , the hon . gentleman know , exactly as we do , that we be fix the mess that they leave . of course , they will have the chance to oppose we along the way , but we will get on with deliver for the british people , and they will get on with carping from the sideline . I know where I would rather be . Social Housing Providers : section 106 if she will take step to support social housing provider to fund house make available under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 . I recognise that social housing provider need support to build their capacity and make a great contribution to affordable housing supply , include via section 106 . to assist in that , we have propose a new five - year social housing rent settlement and permit council to keep all their right - to - buy receipt . I know that my hon . friend be commit to increase the provision of social housing . in the past few year , most social housing have be provide through section 106 agreement . accord to the National Housing Federation , thousand of house around the country be available but can not be purchase under section 106 agreement because register social landlord simply do not have the resource . I be sure that he be aware of that problem , but do he have any plan to deal with it and bring those house , which be badly need , back into use ? the Government certainly recognise the ongoing challenge pose by the reduce appetite of register provider of social housing to buy affordable home deliver under section 106 agreement . as I hope my hon . friend be aware , the Homes England section 106 affordable housing clearing service be launch back in December alongside the revise national planning policy framework , with the aim of support buyer and seller of section 106 home to find each other more effectively . we be call on all developer with uncontracted section 106 affordable home , as well as provider and local planning authority , to engage proactively with that new service . we will consider what further measure may be necessary to address the problem , inform by datum from that service . private developer in my constituency have obligation to build social home under section 106 , and they be ready to do so . the difficulty they face be that there be no social landlord available to take those unit . when I raise this issue with the Deputy Prime Minister in October , she say that she be aware of the problem and be work to tackle it . will the Minister update the House on the progress make ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman hear my previous answer , but I have just make it clear that we act on 12 December to establish a matching service . I would advise he to ask the developer whether they have take advantage of that service . we want to learn lesson from the datum that come out of it to see whether we need to take further step . we think that the matching service will allow registered provider and developer try to offload section 106 unit to come together to see if agreement can be reach . local Government reorganisation : Devon what plan her Department have for local government reorganisation in Devon . on 16 December , I write to all council in two - tier area and neighbour small unitarie , include in Devon , to set out plan for a joint programme of devolution and local government reorganisation . later this month , I intend to formally write out to those council on the shortlist to ask for interim proposal by March and full proposal later in the year . we will confirm that as soon as possible , because we know it be important to have clarity . obviously , any reorganisation will impact council finance . my constituency of North Devon have coastal town with real pocket of remote deprivation , isolation and poverty . now that the Minister ' s Department have cut the rural service delivery grant , what methodology will be use to ensure that local government funding do not overlook those area ? with respect , the hon . Gentleman be conflate two entirely separate issue . one be reorganisation , which will take money away from the back office and put it on the frontline where people can see the benefit of that investment , but to be absolutely clear on rural service , the provisional settlement that be lay out ensure that primarily rural council get an average increase of 5 % , and no council see a net reduction in its income level . that be our commitment to rural community , and it be firm . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a serve councillor on Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council . many council have already undergo significant reorganisation , from move to share service right the way through to full unitarisation , and the cost of that have always be underestimate . although transformation lead to low long - term revenue cost , we know that council everywhere be teeter on the edge , so find fund to pay for reorganisation , transformation and redundancy will be problematic . the mayoral authority add an extra complication , so can the Minister confirm that funding from central Government will be provide to fully cover both devolution and local government reorganisation , so that council do not have to factor extra cost into their 2025 - 26 and 2026 - 27 budget or risk reduce local service far ? the Government be not require any area to reorganise . what we do be write out and invite proposal to be submit , and I pay tribute to councillor across the country for the leadership they have show in put those proposal forward . investment to support LGR or devolution will follow a bit later , but to be clear , this be a bottom - up reorganisation be request by local council , and they have our full support in that process . Homelessness what step her Department be take to work with the devolved administration to support people sleep rough in winter 2024 - 25 . fund for homelessness service in England be increase next year by £ 233 million , take the total to a record £ 1 billion . this will help prevent rise in the number of family in temporary accommodation and in rough sleeping . today , I have announce the tripling of emergency winter pressure fund from £ 10 million to £ 30 million . housing and homelessness be a devolved responsibility , but we engage with devolved administration on a regular basis to share good practice and inform our cross - government strategy on homelessness , which be be chair by the Deputy Prime Minister . I thank the Minister for her answer and welcome today ' s announcement . give that young people ' s experience of homelessness differ considerably from those of other age group across all country in the UK , will the Minister commit to address their need specifically in the homelessness strategy that be come up ? my hon . friend make a really important point about the impact on child and young people . it be an absolute scandal that nearly 160 , 000 child be in temporary accommodation , and we be determined to ensure that the Government ' s long - term strategy address the underlie issue affect youth homelessness . we be work with mayor , council and key stakeholder , include in the charitable sector , to get we back on track to end homelessness . I call the shadow Minister . St Mungo ' s have report a 27 % rise in rough sleeping in London under this government compare with the same period under the last government . will this Government commit to remove the ringfence that they have introduce around the homelessness prevention grant , heed council ' call to give they back the flexibility they need to get rough sleeper and homeless household into accommodation and avoid the cost shunt they impose on council tax payer ? I thank the shadow Minister for his question . the fact be that this Government be invest record amount of funding to tackle the root cause . that require action on prevention , and we be work with council to ensure that we address those underlying cause . we have inherit a mess — record level of homelessness and rough sleeping — and we be determined to get a grip on it . that mean action on prevention as well as address the impact of homelessness and rough sleeping , and that be what we be determined to do . one strategy that council use to address homelessness be to move homeless household elsewhere in the country . that can be an appropriate response , but it need to be do in consultation with the receiving authority . do the Minister share my concern that Labour - lead Rushmoor council be use the standard procedure to attack its own member for bring this legitimate matter of concern to public attention ? the shadow Minister will be aware that the shortage of housing be drive out - of - area placement . I be very happy to come back to he on his specific example , but the Deputy Prime Minister have write to council set out their responsibility and that out - of - area placement should be a last resort . we will continue to work with council to support they as they deal with the challenge of the underlie problem , which be the housing shortage and the crisis that have be leave behind . we be determined to ensure that we get a grip by provide the support they need with funding , as well as the 1 . 5 million home that this Government be determined to build . english Devolution Bill : local Public Services if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the english devolution Bill on local public service . if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of the english devolution Bill on local public service . the english devolution Bill will strengthen public service by deliver local government reorganisation and establish more directly elect mayor , who will have the new power to convene public service . the Bill will also deliver a new health improvement duty for strategic authority , and enable more mayor to take on responsibility for police and crime commissioner function , and health function as well , to co - ordinate well on local public service . beyond mayor , the White Paper reassert the role of local authority as leader of place and the delivery arm for the Government ' s mission . the catastrophic impact of the level of debt leave behind by the previous conservative council be be feel all over Thurrock . our service have be cut to the absolute quick , and delivery for resident be at an all - time low . although I welcome the impact that devolution will have on growth and value for money , what reassurance can the Minister offer that devolution will finally give we the chance to turn the page and deliver where it matter for my constituent ? that be a shared ambition . the Government be determined to take power away from Westminster and put it into the hand of local community . we know that drive well outcome and well public service rest on fair funding , and for too long council have be impoverished , while more expectation have be place on they . the funding reform we be consult on will be part of rebuild the foundation , but this be a very significant project to get power away from this place to local community . english devolution provide a generational opportunity to unlock the potential of town such as Nuneaton . I thank the Minister for his time and support in ensure we get these option right . will he continue to meet I and council representative to discuss the good option for unlock growth and opportunity in Nuneaton ? I thank my hon . friend and the many other mp with whom I have have meeting to talk about devolution — at the last tally , about 140 one - to - one meeting with mp have take place , such be the interest be show in devolution for the right reason . I be more than happy to continue those conversation and to welcome the local leadership be show . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . several Mid Leicestershire village such as Glenfield , Birstall and braunstone town be extremely anxious at the prospect of be force into a large city unitary as a result of the english devolution Bill . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss this matter , and will he give my constituent the assurance that they will not be force into a city unitary against their wish ? it be important to say that any request for local government reorganisation be propose to Government by the local area . it be for the Government to provide the process by which those application be hear . over at least the last four year , local authority election have be postpone countless time to allow reorganisation to take place . to be clear , there be a bottom - up approach for both the postponement of election and the boundary that be draw for the unitarie . our job be to ensure that the process support that approach . I want to ask about the interaction between the planning reform and devolution , which be two huge bit of legislation . in Tunbridge Wells we have a local plan , but we have be ask when we do our new local plan to have a 66 % increase in house . except , we will not have a new local plan because Tunbridge Wells borough council will cease to exist — it will become part of the West Kent unitary authority . how will these two huge reform interact and what will it mean for housing number in Tunbridge Wells ? in a sense , a council be only an organisation at a point in time , but there will always be a local authority responsible for the area . we want to ensure that the authority be strategic but also take that wide view . reorganisation be of course part of that , but , importantly , a strategic authority can also take wide responsibility for align public service reform with local growth . the hon . Gentleman talk about housing number and we can sometimes miss how important that be : housing target be one thing , but we must not forget that for every one of those number there be people and family who currently do not have a safe and affordable place to live . this agenda be about tackle exactly that . planning Reform what recent progress she have make on planning reform . in December 2024 we publish a revise national planning policy framework , follow extensive consultation . we be also make progress on develop our planning and infrastructure Bill , which will be introduce in the come month . a constituent of mine be endeavour to prevent her neighbour from build an extension that would affect the right of access set out in her restrictive covenant . she be initially quote £ 80 , 000 to £ 100 , 000 to take the neighbour to court . such cost make civil law inaccessible to ordinary people . will the Minister consider look at way that restrictive covenant can be bring into the planning process as a material consideration ? I be sorry to learn of the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent . legal restriction on property be not usually treat as material planning consideration ; the planning process only address whether the development be acceptable in plan term . material consideration must relate to a planning purpose such as the character or use of the land . if my hon . friend wish to write to I with further detail on this , I will endeavour to explore it far . in Gosport we be face a massive increase in our housing number , and planner be put in application to build across the very last green space , in the strategic gap between Gosport and Fareham , which already have air quality issue and overstretch local infrastructure . we do have an abundance of disuse military site , however , so what priority be the Minister give to encourage development on brownfield site rather than eat up the last remain green field in area such as Gosport , which be already overdeveloped ? the Government have a " brownfield first " approach to development . we strengthen that approach in the recently revise national planning policy framework . we also publish last year a brownfield passport work paper to explore further way in which we might prioritise and accelerate the release of brownfield land . on plan make , we be ask local authority to take a sequential approach — brownfield first , densify those brownfield site if possible and work cross - boundary where possible , and only then explore grey belt release and greenfield release in extremis . we be in conversation with Departments across the board about how we can well optimise the use of public sector land across all Departments . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . no one in Britain today should face the cold and indignity of have to sleep in a doorway , so the Minister for Homelessness and Democracy , my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , have today announce the tripling of the rough sleeping winter pressure fund . this will ensure that as many people as possible have access to a safe roof over their head and a warm bed to sleep in . safety expert have raise concern about 95 high - rise block and nearly 300 other building in Scotland find to contain high pressure laminate panel . shockingly , eight year on from Grenfell the Scottish Government have spend less than 10 % of the £ 97 million receive from the UK Government for deal with cladding in 2020 . do the Minister agree that the Scottish Government have drag their foot on this for far too long and must act now to make these building safe ? I agree that remediation have be too slow . this government be laser - focused on speed up the remediation of dangerous building , and I encourage the Scottish Government , for which this be a devolved matter , to increase their effort , as we be , to up the pace of remediation in Scotland . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Secretary of State agree that everyone should be treat equally and be see to be treat equally before the law , include plan law ? I do not know where the shadow Secretary of State be go with this , but yes , I think people should be treat equally . great . why , then , be it that the Secretary of State , the Foreign Secretary , the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have all intervene in the planning application for the chinese super - embassy , override the wish and concern of local resident , the local planning authority , the Metropolitan police , the security service and , most likely , the incoming US President ? these be live issue , but the security of our country and nation always come foremost , and that be always what this Government think of first . constituent of mine in High Green be tell that a social housing repair project for their home would take 12 week . the project have now be ongoing for 64 week , with contractor leave the work in a disgraceful condition . I welcome the Government ' s boost to the building of more social housing and the extra £ 350 , 000 of homelessness funding announce for Sheffield this week . how do the Minister plan to empower local authority to ensure that contractor deliver social house building and repair to a high standard and on time ? all social housing tenant deserve to live in decent home , to be treat with fairness and respect and to have their problem quickly resolve . under the Regulator of Social Housing ' s safety and quality standard , housing association and council must provide an effective , efficient and timely repair service for their home , include set timetable for completion and clearly communicate with resident . as my hon . friend know , we will also introduce Awaab ' s law and a new decent home standard to set the minimum quality that social home must meet . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recently , a 1 - acre site in Corfe Mullen in my constituency be sell . it be a house surround by lot of beautiful garden , and I think the House can see where this be go . the neighbour raise the alarm that the tree be go to be take down . they flag it with the council , which do not see a problem , and a week later , in the dead of night , the developer bring chainsaw and destroy every bit of nature on the site . will the Minister commit to bring forward legislation to auto - protect tree above a particular size or age in their planning reform , so that developer do not get away with environmental vandalism ? protection be already in place , but if the hon . Lady wish to write to I with further detail of that particular case , on which I do not have the full information to allow I to comment now , I will endeavour to look into the matter more carefully and to provide she with a full response . More than 600 household across Luton be live in temporary accommodation , with family scatter across hotel and bed and breakfast wait for home to become available . the previous Government ' s inaction on housing have make that painful wait even long . it take nearly a decade for a four - bedroom property to become available in Luton . can the Secretary of State outline what step she be take to shorten waiting time and increase social housing stock for people in Luton North ? the Secretary of State be lead the charge in build 1 . 5 million home to tackle the supply challenge that we face as a country , because of the housing crisis we inherit . we also announce £ 500 million for the affordable home programme in the Budget and funding for homelessness service have go up by £ 233 million , bring the total to a billion pound . I be pleased to say that Luton will receive more than £ 6 . 3 million . furthermore , we be invest £ 210 , 000 in the emergency accommodation reduction pilot . follow the Grenfell tragedy , the resident of Northpoint in my constituency have have to pay charge of nearly £ 700 , 000 for a wake watch , fire warden and alarm . give the Government ' s manifesto commitment to well protect leaseholder from cost , what step can the Minister take to help my constituent with the reimbursement of those charge ? sadly , I hear these story across the country as well . the reality be that the good step that can be take be for the developer to enter into the cladding safety scheme , to get the building remediate and to get the cost remove . in the meantime , we have make money available through the wake watch replacement fund , so that that particularly expensive way of keep a building safe can be replace . there be way of tackle the pain in the short term , but the reality be that the only solution be the remediation of building , and that be why we be push on so hard through our remediation acceleration plan . Transparency International recently report that since 2010 , £ 38 . 6 million of donation into UK politic have come from unincorporated association , which be not require to report their source of income . with that in mind , will the Minister close political donation loophole to protect our democracy from foreign influence by ban unincorporated association and shell company that have never turn a profit from donate to political party ? effective regulation of political finance be crucial for maintain trust in our electoral system and our democracy . the UK already have a strong framework that make clear that only those with a legitimate interest in UK election can make political donation , but the Government commit in our manifesto to strengthen the rule on donation to political party in order to protect our democracy from foreign interference . we will bring forward proposal in due course . I recently speak to Chris Dodson , a local thatcher in Sawtry , who raise with I the shortage of thatch straw , and particularly long straw thatch . with Historic England insist that grade II list property should use like - for - like material in replacement and the chance of list building consent to change from straw to water reed unlikely to be grant , will the Minister confirm what the Government be do to ensure that thatcher be not hinder by the current guidance and the shortage of thatch straw ? I confess that that be a question to which I do not have the answer . the Government intend to amend building regulation later this year as part of the introduction of future standard , and it sound like this issue , which I think come up in the debate on a private member ' s Bill on Friday , be one that we need to consider . I be more than happy to sit down with the hon . Gentleman and have a further discussion about it . last week I meet a young dad at Derby City Mission who have be sleep rough until he use its Safe Space night shelter . he be then able to move into one of its bedroom , and he have just be inform that there be a home for he to move into : another step towards have somewhere his son can visit he next Christmas . will the Minister consider whether that step model could be use to help more rough sleeper become ready for permanent accommodation ? I thank my hon . friend for share that excellent example of the vital work of Derby City Mission . I be pleased that it receive £ 272 , 000 of Government funding through the night shelter transformation fund , to help people off the street and into their own accommodation . the Government ' s investment of nearly a billion pound will allow partner to develop vital service for those in need , and we will draw on those lesson . the hugely increase housing target for East Hampshire get far skew by the extent of its overlap with a national park . will the Housing Minister meet I to discuss our unusual situation and the case for have two separately set housing target ? there be issue in such case , particularly around the datum that be available , and we be in conversation with the Office for National Statistics about that . I be more than happy to meet the right hon . gentleman to discuss it far . resident in Oakwood , which be part of the city of Derby , be concerned about the impact that potential development on the last field adjoin Chaddesden wood would have on the rich biodiversity of this designate local nature reserve . what step be minister take to ensure that we meet our much - need housing target while protect nature and historic woodland ? ancient woodland and ancient and veteran tree be already strictly protect in national planning policy , while tree preservation order safeguard individual tree or group of tree of particular value . it be for local planning authority to apply the protection effectively as they have principal responsibility . I be more than happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend . my constituent , particularly in Great Glen , have just experience devastating flooding . under the last government , we open up the flood recovery framework so that they could get grant to protect themselves . when will they be able to access that money under this government ? the hon . Gentleman will know that these decision be take on a case - by - case basis , generally depend on the extent of damage from flood . we will look at that closely . I would be willing to talk to he to ensure that the accountability be there . tomorrow , it will be 1 , 000 day since the repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 be give Royal Assent , yet that outdated , vindictive and utterly ineffective Act be still drive people away from the support they need and into an already overload court system . there be no need for a replacement as exist antisocial behaviour law be sufficient . may I urge the Minister to please drop the peculiar and cautious civil service group - think ? we be 201 year on . will she advise when the commencement of the repeal will happen ? the Vagrancy Act be antiquate and no long fit for purpose . no one should be criminalise for sleep rough on the street . we want to ensure that we avoid criminalise the most vulnerable , while also ensure that the police and local authority have the tool they need to make community feel safe . we be currently consider our next step . will the Government look at redefine affordable housing in national policy so that it be peg to average local income rather than at the whim of an overheated housing market ? we do make change to some of the definition around affordable housing in the recently revise national planning policy framework , by separate out the definition of social rent , but I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . I will certainly bear they in mind as we develop policy . for fire safety remediation work for building over 11 metre , there be a cap on non - clad cost and leaseholder be give 10 year to pay remediation cost . however , my constituent in a building under 11 metre have be inform that he may have to pay cost within 12 month because the freeholder be a housing association and because of restriction around credit and debt . will the Minister meet I to resolve the issue and allow some flexibility ? I would be very happy to take that meeting . we approach building under 11 metre on a case - by - case basis to seek a solution . I be happy to do so with my hon . friend . Bathford village shop and caf é have become a lifeline for local people in my Bath community , but it be at risk of lose its premise . the £ 150 million community ownership fund be crucial to sustain these local asset . will the Minister comment on the future of the community ownership fund ? the community ownership fund come to an end with its round in December ; the previous Government , of course , leave no future funding for it . the hon . Lady know that we have make a significant commitment around the community right to buy and a significant commitment around local growth funding . future ownership fund will be a matter for the multi - year spending review in the spring . it be freeze over the weekend in York . despite work with North Yorkshire emergency accommodation service , I be unable to find accommodation for a very vulnerable constituent of mine . will the Minister ensure that in the homelessness review we hold local authority to account and that no resident ' s case be put in the " too difficult to manage " box ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that deeply troubling set of circumstance . we will not only ensure an immediate response through the funding that we be provide , but ensure that we bring to our cross - government strategy the perspective and experience of those who be affect . the Planning Inspectorate have overturn the democratic decision of Walsall council and decide to allow a battery energy storage system to go ahead at Chapel Lane in my constituency , a green - belt site in a historical open space . as this create a dangerous precedent , will the Secretary of State clarify whether we will see more of this under her new policy on the grey belt ? the right hon . Lady will appreciate that we can not comment on live or conclude decision , as to do so would prejudice they . our policy on grey belt and on how grey belt be release be set out in full in our response to the NPPF consultation . recently , I visit the Royal Mail delivery office in Huyton . postie speak to I about serious problem with low - level letterboxe , include bad back and joint issue and an increase in bad dog attack . one postie even show I scar across his hand from a dog attack . will the Minister meet I , the Communication Workers Union and postie to discuss the matter in regard to new build ? hear , hear ! not least with a view to make myself the most popular Member of the House , I will happily do so . on Friday , I meet the leader of Wiltshire council , who assert that the way the Government have calculate the distribution of compensation between in - house and commission service mean that Wiltshire have not fare well in the local government settlement that be announce on 18 December . will the Minister meet I so that I can well understand the thinking and relay it back to the leader of my council ? we know that local government be feel the pressure after 14 year that do not bode well for local and public service . we understand the pressure associate with national insurance , which be why the Treasury have commit £ 515 million to support council in that endeavour . I be more than happy to meet the right hon . Gentleman about his particular circumstance . be the Government consider compensation scheme for homeowner who have suffer financial loss due to reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in their property ? if so , I be especially interested in the Barnett impact for the Scottish Government of any such scheme , as I have constituent from Tillicoultry whose life have be seriously impact . as my hon . Friend allude to , RAAC be a devolved matter . the responsibility for ensure that building be safe be , of course , that of the owner , but we keep RAAC under active consideration in case any support be need . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry on the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . at Teignbridge district council , I oversee the commencement of council house building for the first time in 30 year . will the Secretary of State meet I and other to discuss what can be do to make it easy for other council to build more council home ? I commend the hon . gentleman for that work . we want council to be able to contribute to council housing . I will happily get the Housing Minister to meet the hon . Gentleman . I welcome the Government ' s triple of the emergency housing budget , but one of my constituent be about to be make homeless because debt incur as a teenager mean that she be not eligible for social housing . be the Government willing to look at that ? I be sure that they do not think that debt should be a reason for homelessness . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the case . he will be aware that we be act as quickly as possible to support local authority to provide the necessary support to those affect , such as his constituent . many resident of West Suffolk who live in new build home put up with management company that fail to do the basic thing expect of they , from sort out road and plant tree to maintain share space . they often pass the buck to the developer , who pass it back again . what plan have the Government to get to grip with these cowboy company ? as I make clear in a previous answer , we remain committed to protect residential freeholder on these estate from unfair charge . this year , we will consult on implement the consumer protection provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , which will cover up to 1 . 75 million home subject to those charge . we intend to bring the measure into force as quickly as possible . I be more than happy to discuss the matter far with the hon . Gentleman . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , there be 160 , 000 child in temporary accommodation , and in many case the definition of " temporary " be be stretch to breaking point . do she agree that the Government ' s homelessness strategy need to look specifically at the outcome for child who have experience long - term or repeat spell in temporary accommodation ? I absolutely agree . that be why we have an inter - ministerial group — we be determined to tackle homelessness . this be not just about child in temporary accommodation ; it affect every single aspect of their life and outcome . with our opportunity mission , we be determined to give every child the well possible outcome . the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill — the sunshine Bill — receive a sunny disposition from all side of the House among the private Members ' bill we debate on Friday . in the upcoming uprating of building regulation , will the Housing Minister confirm that solar generation will be part of the requirement for all new house ? the Government ' s position be set out in some detail on Friday when I respond to the debate on the private Member ' s Bill . as the hon . Gentleman will know , I be in conversation with the promoter of that Bill , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , to shape the design of the future standard that we be bring forward . in Scotland , we have record level of child live in temporary accommodation without a home to call their own . some 10 , 000 child have be leave homeless on the SNP Government ' s watch . the SNP be take Scotland in the wrong direction . do the Secretary of State agree that Scotland need a new direction and a Scottish Labour Government in 2026 ? yes . Suffolk have a huge flooding problem . part of the problem have be drive by overdevelopment in low - lie rural area . in her step to reform the planning system — as well as build more house , which I totally accept we need to do — can the Secretary of State promise to force council and developer to properly account for flood risk , ensure that developer be hold accountable to resident when development be badly impact by flood , and ensure that housing target favour home build in dense urban area ? as I have make clear , we be prioritise development on previously develop brownfield land wherever possible , and we encourage local authority to look to that option in the first instance . we have make change to the NPPF to clarify flood risk and issue that relate to it . if the hon . Gentleman write to I , I will be more than happy to look at the specific in his area in more detail . UK - Ukraine 100 - year Partnership with permission , Mr Speaker , before I turn to Ukraine , I want to begin by welcome the release of Emily Damari . after 471 day of captivity , she have be bring home . it be deeply move to see the picture of Emily and her mother Mandy reunite . I pay tribute once again to all those who campaign so tirelessly for this moment . the Government will continue to work closely with our partner to secure the release of all the hostage , get aid into Gaza and see the deal implement in full . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will now make a statement on Ukraine . last week , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister visit Kyiv . it be his seventh meeting with President Zelensky , but this visit have a special purpose : to sign a historic 100 - year partnership with Ukraine . the partnership enshrine both side ' commitment to a relationship benefit the whole of our nation : business as well as the Government , community as well as our military . it consist of a legally bind treaty and a political agreement outline our co - operation in great detail . we will lay the treaty before this House for scrutiny in the usual way . the partnership cover the full breadth of our friendship , across nine pillar . in each area , deep co - operation can enhance our collective security and help we both to build resilient , flourish economy . on maritime security , through joint exercise and training between the Royal Navy and the ukrainian navy , we can enhance their effectiveness and learn from their success in secure the Black sea . on air defence , the supply of 15 Gravehawk missile system , produce in Yorkshire by BAE Systems , be a direct benefit to our economy and an innovative new capability for Ukraine . on the energy sector , the agreement cement the United Kingdom as Ukraine ' s preferred partner , open up opportunity for we and they in area such as renewable and green steel . the Prime Minister see at first hand what our work together can mean for the people of Ukraine , while visit a burns unit support by specialist national health service doctor , help they to treat victim of indiscriminate russian attack and join a ukrainian class speak to a primary school in Liverpool . it be these young people who will reap the reward of the effort we be make today . a partnership last 100 year , beyond the lifetime of even the young member of this House , be unprecedented , but it reflect the unique nature of our friendship — a friendship that member on all side do so much to strengthen . I pay particular tribute to the work of my predecessor the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , the noble Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton and the former Member for Welwyn Hatfield for their work under the previous Government in support this partnership . this cross - party unity be a source of strength for our country and a source of strength for Ukraine . it be a unity that go well beyond this House . member will have witness it in their constituency , from the more than 200 , 000 Ukrainians who have find refuge in our home to the countless ukrainian flag fly proudly outside church and town hall across the country . this government have show strong support for Ukraine since our first day in office . for my part , I have call out Putin ' s modern - day imperialism in the United Nations Security Council , I have be use the full force of our sanction against Putin ' s war machine , with the UK have lead the way in sanction Putin ' s shadow fleet , and I announce over £ 600 million in humanitarian and fiscal support during my own visit to Kyiv in September . my ministerial colleague have be play their full part as well . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Defence have accelerate the delivery of military aid , extend our training of ukrainian soldier to at least the end of the year and sign a defence industrial treaty with Ukraine , allow it to draw on £ 3 . 5 billion of UK export finance to acquire military equipment . this month , legislation introduce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor come into force , enable a loan of over £ 2 billion more to Ukraine , all of it repay through the use of profit from frozen russian asset . that funding come on top of the Government ' s commitment , make by the Prime Minister in our first week in office , to provide £ 3 billion a year in military aid in every year that it be need . we do not know for how long it will be need ; it be for Ukraine to decide at what point and in what way to have any form of talk with Russia , and Ukraine will continue to need support from its friend even after Putin ' s barbaric , illegal war come to an end . we have always say that we want to see a just and last peace , but our priority right now , together with our ally , be to put Ukraine in the strong possible position to achieve that . three thing be clear . first , Ukrainians want to live at peace with their neighbour . they do not provoke this war , whatever the false claim of the Kremlin or its army of bot online , but now that Putin ' s mafia state be prey on they , they be fight back courageously . their cause be just : quite simply , the freedom to choose their own future . secondly , Putin show no sign of want peace . he could end this war tomorrow by withdraw from Ukraine , yet he insist that the war will not end until he have achieve his objective — objective that amount to the subjugation of the ukrainian people . that be no basis for meaningful dialogue , and Putin ' s action speak far louder than his twisted word : inhuman strike on civilian on Christmas Day , dispatch north korean troop to the frontline , and wave after wave of attack on the brave people of Ukraine . finally , Putin ' s position be not one of strength . the invasion have be a monumental strategic failure , and pressure be mount . Russia ' s casualty rate be staggering , the high number of military casualty that the country have suffer since the second world war , and Russia be more insecure than it be before the war — and for what ? Russia gain some territory last year , yes : field and small settlement , leave barren by relentless bombardment , and take at a rate so slow that the Russians would need a century to conquer all of Ukraine . meanwhile , their economy struggle increasingly to sustain the war through this year alone . spiral inflation be make basic good such as butter unaffordable , welfare cut be hit the most vulnerable , and interest rate have be hike to a record 21 % . we be approach the third anniversary of this conflict , and , as the Prime Minister say in Kyiv , we must not let up now . Putin hope that the world lack his resolve , and we need to call his bluff to prove he wrong . this be not simply a moral necessity , although I know that the whole House have moral clarity on the righteousness of support Ukraine . it be also a strategic necessity for Britain and our ally . if Putin win in Ukraine , the post - war order found in great part by my predecessor Ernie Bevin , which have keep we all safe for more than eight decade , will be seriously undermine . foundational principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity will be shake , and a more dangerous world will result . that be why the Government will not falter , it be why the Prime Minister travel to Kyiv , and it be why we stand firmly with Ukraine , today , tomorrow , and for generation to come . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . may I start by join the Foreign Secretary in welcome the release of Emily Damari yesterday ? our thought be with she , with her family and with all the hostage at this time . I associate those on this side of the House with the Foreign Secretary ' s comment . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for provide advance sight of his statement . for nearly three year the House have stand united and steadfast in our support of the people of Ukraine . we admire their determination , courage and bravery in the face of such horror , terror and brutality be inflict on they , and our heart bleed for the pain , the loss and the suffering that Putin have cause through his illegal war and invasion of a sovereign country . from day one — in fact , since before russian troop start the late wave of aggression in 2022 — the British Government have back President Zelensky in defence of Ukraine ' s freedom . we recognise the threat pose since the invasion of Crimea in 2014 , and the ongoing incursion in the east . we quickly provide the Ukrainians with military equipment , aid and finance . we set up bespoke route to provide safety in the UK for those need to leave Ukraine , and the british people open their home . through Boris Johnson and Ben Wallace , we lead global diplomatic effort to rally the world in support of Ukraine and to isolate Russia . that include one of the most comprehensive package of sanction ever impose on a country , member of its rule regime , and business with link to Putin and the war . when we be in government , our commitment to Ukraine be solid , and we be grateful for the support of the then opposition . in three year , we have provide £ 12 . 8 billion - worth of support for Ukraine , include £ 7 . 8 billion in military assistance , and we welcome the ongoing commitment to provide at least £ 3 billion a year in military aid for as long as it be need . as the Foreign Secretary will know , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) and my noble Friend Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton be instrumental in lay the foundation for this partnership . the partnership reach commitment to a long - stand and deep relationship between our two country . at this time of uncertainty for Ukraine , the prospect of future stability and our ongoing friendship and support will be welcome . can the Foreign Secretary provide more detail about the follow element of the partnership ? first , on security and defence , reference in article 2 and 3 , can he give an update on when he expect the propose maritime partnership to be conclude , and on how any such partnership can be impact in the future ? the partnership also enshrine our support for Ukraine become a future NATO ally , so can the Foreign Secretary give an update on his discussion with the incoming US Administration on their plan , and on how we can ensure that there be consistency in this partnership ? on defence alliance , can he give an update on the progress be make towards spend 2 . 5 % of gross domestic product on defence ? secondly , the partnership commit to increase economic and trade co - operation , partnership work on energy , and work on science , technology and innovation . will the Foreign Secretary elaborate on the level of investment that he expect to be make , and on what work be under way within Government and with the private sector to facilitate that ? what discussion be under way with our international partner to boost the contribution that they be make ? thirdly , can the Foreign Secretary give an update on the further step be take to isolate and undermine Putin and Russia , include response to the use of north korean troop fight for Russia ? do he expect to announce further sanction and activity to mobilise asset , to fund the rebuilding of Ukraine ? fourthly , the partnership refer to commitment to " combat foreign information manipulation and interference " in article 7 . will the Foreign Secretary give an update on how that will work in practical term , and on the step be take to prevent and combat russian interference in other country , include Moldova , Romania and Georgia ? there will continue to be difficult day ahead for the people of Ukraine , but their fight for freedom be a just cause , because they be not only fight to free their country from Putin ' s aggression ; they be fight for our value and freedom , too . that be why we must continue to stand by they , and to make sure that this partnership be a success and give Ukraine hope for a bright future . Slava Ukraini ! I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her word , which underline the bipartisan support in this House . it be very useful for I to be in Washington DC with the Defence Secretary last May , when we underline to colleague across Capitol Hill that here in the United Kingdom this remain a bipartisan issue . it be a great indication of what we can achieve in this Parliament on matter of the great concern . on the right hon . Lady ' s last point , she will understand that today be inauguration day and it would have be a bit pre - emptive to have have discussion with the incoming Administration on the security guarantee and on Ukraine ' s path to NATO . she know that we set out an irreversible pathway to membership at the NATO conference when we come into office , and that remain the position . she also ask I about the security pillar , and that be important . help Ukraine to reach NATO ' s standard , particularly across its military structure , to support Ukraine ' s irreversible path to NATO membership , be something that we in this country take very seriously . Ukraine have defend itself resolutely in cyber - space in the face of russian aggression , and the UK have be proud to support that defence , both in Ukraine and also in the next - door country . the right hon . Lady mention cyber . I be in Moldova see the work that we fund , which begin before we come into power . it be good , hugely important work , and when we see the interference across the region in Romania and Georgia , the importance of this work be underline even far . the right hon . Lady rightly talk about the maritime context and strengthen our maritime capability . work with Ukraine to protect Black sea security be essential to its future security and prosperity . some 49 % of Ukraine ' s pre - war trade go through the Black sea , and I might say that that be why , for a substantial period of history , Russia have want total control of much of the Black sea . through the agreement , we will work together to ensure the safety of trade in the Black and Azov sea through joint naval tasking and de - mining activity , which will be hugely important once this war come to an end . more broadly , it be important for I to be absolutely clear on the issue of third - party support . I raise concern with my chinese counterpart when I be in China on 18 October about the supply of equipment to Russia and the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea ' s relationship with Russia . the right hon . Lady know that I go on to designate company that we see deal with that dual - use technology . the direct participation of DPRK troop in combat operation be another dangerous expansion of Putin ' s illegal war against Ukraine and further proof that he have no interest in peace . we have also impose sanction on a number of iranian individual , on 10 September and again on 18 November , include Iran Air , in response to Iran ' s transfer of ballistic missile to Russia . I want once again to thank the Foreign Secretary , the Defence Secretary and the Prime Minister for will this partnership into life . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , I fully support all nine pillar of the agreement , as I be sure all member of the all - party group do . pillar 4 deal with the economy and trade , and there be many thing we can do now to deepen and strengthen our trade relation with Ukraine , one of which involve joint venture . what work will be do to remove insurance barrier and trade barrier , for instance , to give access to kindre or joint venture partnership between UK and ukrainian company in all area , include defence ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all his work on the all - party group . he will be pleased that there be active conversation on this very issue at this time . he will know , too , that because of some of the change that my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary have make on procurement , we be do all we can to assist trade in Ukraine , as complicated as that be at this moment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the Foreign Secretary ' s remark on the release of Emily Damari , and I thank he for advance sight of his statement . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment last week to a 100 - year partnership with Ukraine , and today I be think of those in Ukraine who have face 35 month of continuous conflict since Russia ' s illegal invasion in 2022 . I be also think of the many community across the UK that have welcome thousand of ukrainian family since that time . the courage and resilience of our ukrainian guest have be match by the solidarity and generosity of british community . Cross - party support for our ally Ukraine have be unwavering . I assure our ukrainian ally that we will continue to support they , for in the face of expansionist russian aggression and threat to democracy , Ukraine ' s fight be indeed our fight . yet today be a critical juncture , for a man who describe Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine as " genius " will today become President of the United States , while his vice - president have advocate for a deal that would reward Russia with the territory that Putin have seize , so I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement that the Ukrainians must have the freedom to choose their own future . in that context , what initial contact have the Foreign Secretary have with the incoming US Administration about Ukraine ? what assurance can he give the House that the US will stay the course and not press Ukraine to capitulate to Russia ? if the Foreign Secretary be unable to give that assurance , will he agree that we must redouble our effort to work with our european ally to secure Ukraine ' s future and our own security ? I welcome the Prime Minister ' s tour of Ukraine and eastern Europe last week , but it leave some question that I now put to the Foreign Secretary . what new action and investment will the UK take to support security in Europe ? how will the UK demonstrate the strengthen leadership in the joint expeditionary force that our european partner expect ? and do the Prime Minister raise with our ally the support express by member across this House for mobilise the frozen russian asset hold in the UK and Europe to support our ukrainian ally ? we must stand with Ukraine for the long haul . the ukrainian people must be in charge of their own destiny . if the UK ' s new pledge be to be real , it must address the uncertainty generate by President Trump . the Prime Minister ' s 100 - year commitment must outlast the President ' s desire for a quick deal in his first 100 day . order . I remind the front Benches of the set time that they be mean to stick to . can they please look at this and make sure they get it right next time ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) for his question and their bipartisan spirit . we welcome the bipartisan support that we eventually get from the United States after a lot of lobbying , include from my predecessor . it should not be forget that it be a £ 61 billion package to support Ukraine , notwithstanding the work that Europe be currently do . it be also important to say that Europe now shoulder two third of all aid to Ukraine , include over half of all military aid . in President Trump , we find someone who have be consistent in urge those colleague across Europe who be still not spend 2 % of gdp on defence . since Roosevelt , successive US president have raise this . when President Trump first come to office , just six country be meet their commitment . by the time he leave , it be 18 . that must be something we can welcome . I encourage the hon . gentleman to look at my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary ' s announcement in December in relation to procurement and the assistance we will continue to give to Ukraine , and on the ease with which Ukraine can now use our process to get the equipment it need to modernise its system . the UK will provide £ 2 . 26 billion of additional support to Ukraine as part of the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan scheme , which will be repay use the profit of frozen russian sovereign asset , and that must be welcome . the hon . Gentleman also mention the JEF , which be hugely important . the support from the baltic nation be extraordinary . the JEF be a very important partnership , and it have be one of the most proactive grouping in support of Ukraine . all JEF nation have sign their own bilateral security agreement with Ukraine . JEF nation be some of Ukraine ' s strong supporter and will continue to be so . I also commend to the hon . Gentleman the Interflex training that we be do with Ukraine , which we have say will continue until the end of this year . I be proud of my constituent in Hampstead and Highgate who open their door to ukrainian refugee , and those at South Hampstead synagogue who offer free history and english lesson . last year , I meet some of those refugee to talk about the enormous cultural contribution they be make to our country . turn to the pillar 9 of the partnership , what be the Foreign Secretary do to ensure those who have be force to flee their home retain cultural link with their country and preserve their sense of heritage ? I be grateful to take my hon . friend ' s question and to see she back in her place . she be right to commend the work of her constituent in offer their home to ukrainian family , as many of our constituent be do . three year into this war , it be important that we commend their effort . under pillar 9 , which be about the strong people - to - people link that exist across the country , we be work with the Premier League and the British Council to help young people in Ukraine to develop the skill , education and confidence need for they to be asset in society , and to promote the power of the english language . over time , I hope we will see the power of the ukrainian language in our country and our school . I find myself thank the right hon . gentleman for the second time in quick succession for his gracious recognition of the work do by his conservative predecessor , include I . I be remind of conversation I have have with President Zelensky and , particularly , Prime Minister Shmyhal about our collective desire that when the scar and pain of the conflict have diminish , the bond of friendship between the UK and Ukraine be maintain . to that end , what can the Government do now to make it easy to de - risk some British - base business and potential investor go to Ukraine to start the rebuilding work now , in preparation for that glorious day when Russia be eject from Ukraine sovereign territory and the Ukrainians can properly start to rebuild their homeland once again ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . as he know , friendship can exist across the House , and I have greatly value his over the year . I put on record my thank for the work he do ; I know this partnership be first mention in a meeting he have with the former Member for Welwyn Hatfield and I be pleased to be able to take that work forward . the idea he mention be a good one . he will be pleased that one of the thing that flow from the Prime Minister ' s trip to Ukraine be the possibility of such a delegation to Ukraine , perhaps lead by a Business Minister , at some point in the future , when it feel safe to make such a visit . that will mean we can assess the opportunity , which go well beyond Kyiv . a huge industrial base exist in Ukraine before the war . there be huge opportunity because it be " the bread basket of Europe " and because of the innovation present in the country , which a lot of people do not realise , that have lead to one of the big drone industry on the planet . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and his announcement that the UK will continue to do all it can to keep Ukraine in the fight in the face of Putin ' s unlawful war of aggression . he mention sanction . will he update the House about what discussion he have have with international counterpart on seize and repurpose russian state sanction , to the tune of the £ 300 billion hold in G7 country , to finance Ukraine to keep it in the fight ? that be a very good question . I reassure my hon . friend that the subject remain under active discussion with our colleague , particularly in Europe . we have make progress in relation to interest . we recognise that more fund need to be find to keep Ukraine in the fight . there be difference of opinion about the lawfulness and legality of do this , and the implication for the market particularly at this time . those discussion be live and active , and I be with the Weimar group of not just Foreign Ministers , because Prime Minister Meloni and Chancellor Scholz be there as well , discuss these very issue just before the Christmas break . it be welcome to hear that this partnership agreement be a bind treaty . as such , it contrast with the Budapest memorandum , which be non - bind and not worth the paper it be write on . there be a lot of talk about how Ukraine be on an irreversible path to NATO membership , but it will be difficult to get a consensus for that anytime soon among the 32 NATO member . in lieu of NATO membership , what security guarantee might the UK seek to develop for Ukraine with european ally ? this be a very live issue . as I say in my statement , we do not see Putin ready to halt his aggression and come to the table for serious negotiation , but just as this country have stand by Ukraine throughout , and provide very important intelligence in the run - up to this war , we will recognise our part in work with other on security guarantee . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement on this 100 - year partnership with such an important european ally . we absolutely understand how our future be link . I want to recognise the ukrainian community in Milton Keynes , which have establish the Sunflower school and hold the first Holodomor memorial event . these community be very worried . they be come to the renewal of their visa because they never think that they would be here this long . they have build new business , family connection , and friend and community connection . can we reassure Ukrainians in the UK that they will continue to have our support for the duration of the war , and potentially support afterwards for some of they to continue their life here ? I reassure Ukrainians in the strong term — I hope that they might see the 100 - year partnership as a signal of this — that the UK will stand with they long after none of we be in this Chamber . that be the nature of the partnership . they should be reassure , and remember that war strike indelible bond ; just as it do between we and the United States after the second world war , it will do so between we and Ukraine . I be sure that the Foreign Secretary ' s statement will be as welcome in Kyiv as it be in this House . he refer to the 200 , 000 refugee in this country . far to the point that the hon . member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) make , many of those people would like to return home , but home be a war zone , particularly in the east , and they can not do so . they therefore have child in school here , and have build life here . it would reassure they to know that they be safe and secure in the United Kingdom for not just the future but the immediate future , and will be able to be here for as long as it take . none of we know when the war will complete , but across our constituency we all recognise community that continue to be here , come out of other conflict . I be think of Kosovan community , for example , which exist right across the country ; I can think of a significant community in south London in particular . many Ukrainians want to return , and we should make it possible for they to do so , but in some area there will have to be a lot of de - mining , let we face it , in order for they to go back to their home . let we see where we get to at the end of the conflict . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the statement . exeter ' s large and vibrant ukrainian heritage community will welcome this further strengthening of our cultural , security and economic tie . go back to sanction , will he confirm that the UK will continue to keep up the pace and pressure of sanction on Russia and , indeed , strengthen they where necessary to close the loophole , in full partnership with our ally ? I have be very proud of the work I have lead on sanction since come to office . it be now the strong sanction package against Russia anywhere in the world , with more to come . I welcome the Government ' s effort on the 100 - year partnership . President Zelensky have make great stride in crack down on corruption in his country , but he have a long way to go — he have probably get rid of most of the low - hang fruit . what extra effort will the UK Government make in assist the Ukrainian Government to crack down on corruption , which will aid its ability to get NATO membership ? I also push the Foreign Secretary on whether he have further view on how maritime support can work in conjunction with the Montreux convention . the right hon . Gentleman will be pleased to know that the Minister for Europe , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , meet official from Ukraine on the issue of anti - corruption just a few week ago . this be an issue I have speak about directly with President Zelensky in the past , and it be an issue that the US traditionally have take a big interest in . I be first in Ukraine look at those issue in opposition . at that stage , the UK be fund a lot of work with non - governmental organisation . that work must continue to break the corruption — a lot of it a legacy , frankly , of the Soviet Union . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . we have already see the extensive role of the russian shadow fleet in the Black sea and across the world , most recently in the Baltics . what further action can the UK Government take to tackle the role of the Russian Black sea fleet in the conflict ? one of the issue be how third country , some of they significant country , be still facilitate the russian shadow fleet because of the illicit oil that find its way into various economy . those be conversation that we and our european partner continue to take forward . if we be serious about tackle Putin ' s aggression , we have to be serious about the revenue that finance it . this morning , I be strike to hear the Foreign Secretary describe Donald Trump as a man of " incredible grace , generosity … very funny , very friendly , very warm " and say that most of the world be glad he be back in power . yet , as Trump re - enter the White House , there be significant concern about whether support for Ukraine from the US — so far Ukraine ' s big backer — will continue . with Trump boasting that he will stop the war in Ukraine in a day , and with his choice for US Secretary of State say on Wednesday that Ukraine will have to make " concession " to Russia , do the Foreign Secretary think that Ukraine be as happy as he be to see trump back in power ? I encourage the hon . Gentleman to actually read the word of President Zelensky , who say that he welcome Donald Trump and his approach of " peace through strength " . I encourage he to take all opportunity he get over the come year to meet Donald Trump and make up his own mind . I welcome the announcement of the new grain verification scheme , which will help track steal grain from occupy ukrainian territory . do my right hon . friend agree that this be an important UK contribution give Ukraine ' s role as a major agricultural producer , which give it a critical position in global food security ? my hon . friend be exactly right . People forget that before this war , Ukraine be effectively the breadbasket of Europe . this be an issue that I speak about with Ms McCain of the World Food Programme . it be hugely important that those grain supply be able to leave the country . it be hugely important that they be not sabotage . that be one of the reason why the pillar on the Black sea be important : there must be the mean for the grain supply to leave Ukraine . the work continue . I join other in very much welcome this declaration of solidarity between London and Kyiv on the future of Ukraine , but there be something surreal in these exchange . everything be about to change very dramatically ; we all know that this be a kind of pre - position statement in advance of Mr Trump assume the presidency . what assessment have the Government make — the Foreign Secretary have give we no idea of this at all — of what President Trump be likely to do and of how they will respond ? how ready be they to ensure that we do not falter and that we step up our support for Ukraine along with our european ally — or will President Trump call all the shot ? I say to the hon . gentleman — in whose question be a seriousness about the cost of war and what it take to negotiate — that when I meet Donald Trump , my sense be that he do understand acutely the importance of this war , and he strike I as a man who be not prepared to be a loser . it be become clear and clear that Putin show no sign whatsoever of want to negotiate , and we must therefore continue to support Ukraine as strongly as we can . the hon . Gentleman will also have pick up — I read about it in the paper — that there be a sense previously of a rush towards negotiation . that have move over time somewhat , and that must be right as a new Administration pick up the file and fully grip this , understanding of course that we all want peace . I warmly welcome this bold new partnership . I think it be a source of pride for everyone in the House that we have more than 200 , 000 ukrainian live among we as our friend and neighbour . will the Foreign Secretary offer a tribute to the ukrainian community in Welwyn Garden City , who have set up a thriving Saturday school that I have the pleasure of visit just before Christmas ? I encourage he to look favourably on their ask for we to fast - track Ukrainian as a GCSE and a - level language , because many young people would love to study it but do not currently have the opportunity to do so . my hon . friend will be pleased to know that the partnership between school under pillar 9 be fundamental . it be what give we the bedrock on which to build both the english language capability in Ukraine and , I hope , the ukrainian language capability in this country . it be to be hope that , as have be say , President Trump can indeed bring significant additional pressure to bear on the dictator Putin to end this horrific war . will the Foreign Secretary give additional reassurance to the british people that , although we have invest billion and billion of pound in support Ukraine , we be commit to recover it from the frozen asset of the russian state in due course ? I know that the hon . Gentleman understand history . he will know that after the second world war , we be in quite a lot of debt to the United States as a result of lend - lease , which it take we many year to pay off . today , no trading relationship of our be big than that with the United States : it total over $ 300 billion , with $ 1 . 2 trillion invest in each other ' s economy , and 1 million british people work in US company and 1 million Americans work in british company . this partnership set up something similar for the next 100 year . it be the result of war , but it have bring our two nation together . he be absolutely right to centre on how we can well use those russian asset . that be a matter of close discussion across the european family . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to 100 year of friendship with the people of Ukraine . in pillar 4 , which talk about economy and trade , there be a commitment to " broaden mutual market access " and raise " awareness and utilisation of the UK - Ukraine Free Trade Agreement " . how long will it take for that work come into effect and for both country to benefit from it ? I be so glad that my hon . friend have draw attention to pillar 4 . that allow I to remind the House that the Prime Minister announce £ 40 million for a new economic recovery programme , which will create opportunity for UK company by support key growth sector in Ukraine . that be the bedrock of an enhance trade and investment opportunity , and eventually a trading relationship when Ukraine get back to the normality that I know it be so keen to achieve . I very much welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . as he will know , in order to have an endure peace , there will need to be credible deterrence for Ukraine . we have already see the development of deterrence in eastern nation such as Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania through the enhance forward presence . be the Foreign Secretary thinking of open up discussion about how we could do that in Ukraine in the future , establish an enhance forward presence to underpin its security ? I be very grateful to the right hon . member for raise this issue . Ukraine ' s rightful place be in NATO — ally agree at the July summit in Washington that that be the rightful place of Ukraine over time . however , he be right that guarantee will be necessary . it be a matter of intense discussion . we have be the european country that have lead on our military support for Ukraine , so he be absolutely right that we would expect to play a role in that when the day come , work with other ally . as President Zelensky have say , the US would have to play a role in that , too . I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , for their leadership on sanction . we know that Putin ' s shadow fleet be still a major source of financing for the war , and that cut it off be vital to bring he to the negotiating table and , crucially , prevent he from rearm later on . how do the Secretary of State plan to persuade ally and counterpart — include some of our own british overseas territory — to clamp down on sanction evasion and expand the capture of the shadow fleet to the full extent of that fleet ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for the work he do on these issue prior to come to Parliament , and for the work that he continue to do . he will be pleased that this be a subject we have raise , particularly with the overseas territory . it be also something I have raise with both the Indians and the Turks , where we have see some go behind the rule that we have make in order to inadvertently benefit Russia . the score of Ukrainians live in my constituency will be very happy to hear today ' s statement , because they be fearful about their future due to the length of time that the war have go on . I just hope that the Foreign Secretary stand by these promise more so than the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland have do today for the people of Northern Ireland — he have surrender to the EU , rather than protect Northern Ireland business . however , do the Foreign Secretary have any concern about the effect that either the resolve of EU country or the attitude of the forthcoming American Administration be likely to have in undermine the message of support to the ukrainian people and the message of defiance to Putin ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that I be a man of my word , and that I be not as worried as some be . the reason be that while there be this debate — which Donald Trump have continue to push — about our commitment to defence spending , it be important to say that if we let Putin win , defence spending across all of our country will rocket . during the cold war , defence spending rise to about 7 % , so I think all country need to concentrate their mind on stand by Ukraine . the ukrainian defence and tech sector have prove themselves resilient and innovative under the harsh pressure of war . will the Foreign Secretary say a bit more about how , under the new 100 - year partnership , the UK defence and tech sector can support their ukrainian counterpart ? likewise , how can we learn from the innovation of our ukrainian friend and ally ? the Ukrainians recognise our huge strength in high education and , as result , innovation , which my hon . friend will that reference in the eventual treaty . prior to the war , there be immense expertise in tech and it in Ukraine . the innovation in drone technology be extraordinary and , frankly , be change the nature of warfare , from which we should benefit . for all those reason , that be an important pillar , from which we will gain as much as Ukraine will over the come year . pillar 2 . 3 state : " throughout the duration of the Declaration , neither Participant will be leave alone in the face of an attack or aggression . " to what extent do that act as a NATO article 5 commitment in lieu of Ukraine join NATO ? do it , like article 5 , facilitate direct UK military action in support of Ukraine should it be attack again in the future in violation of the UN charter ? be other NATO ally also negotiate similar pact , and to what extent do they complement this one ? unusually , the hon . Gentleman be jump ahead of himself somewhat . we continue to support Ukraine with every military effort . that be go on now , and in a sense that be the reference he be make . I have indicate an irreversible pathway to NATO , as we agree back in September . this be not article 5 . I welcome the statement , and I thank the Foreign Secretary and his colleague for work on the partnership . as he will know , the House , in its first debate of the year , call on the Government to investigate how we might seize russian asset . notwithstanding his statement about the ongoing conversation and the sensitivity , will he update the House on when he will be able to report back to we on that ? I simply say to the hon . Gentleman that this be the most sensitive of time . we all recognise that this be a critical year for Ukraine , and further fund will need to be find . I be pleased to see that the $ 50 billion loan through the G7 will eventually be get into ukrainian coffer , but there be more to do , and the conversation be live at this point in time . it have be report — indeed , it be mention by the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) — that Putin have deploy north korean troop in Ukraine . what be the Government ' s response to what be now an axis of operation against Ukraine ? this be incredibly dangerous , as we see the Euro - atlantic theatre and the Indo - Pacific theatre coalesce . it be important to emphasise that our assessment be that those troop be be use in Kursk . we see that , we recognise it and we will use all mean necessary to deal with that issue with the tool we have as good we can in the come day . while the bad of humanity be be demonstrate with Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , our nation be show the good of humanity , in our rich tradition , by open our door to those displace by war . one of those family be that of my constituent Professor Ivan Waddington , who have adopt a ukrainian refugee family , whom he see as his own . he have ask I to ask the Government whether they be plan to continue with the scheme , and will those Ukrainians who have assimilate and be make a positive contribution to our country have the right to remain in this country when the war end ? I recognise why hon . member have raise this issue , but that must rightly be a determination for the Home Secretary at the appropriate time . however , I want to strongly indicate our support for those family in this country , and our recognition , as the war continue and may go on for some time , of the huge contribution they continue to make . I hope that the 100 - year partnership that we have sign be an indication of the inextricable link that we think now exist between Ukraine and the United Kingdom . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . it will give the almost 300 ukrainian family live in my constituency the encouragement they need . it be our desire and their desire that the war in Ukraine will come to an end shortly , for which I be a know advocate , along with many other member . do we still intend to send the £ 3 billion annual military assistance until 2031 whether the war be be fight or not ? what will " no less than £ 3 billion " mean , and will we be expect to fund the Ukraine defence wholly if ally such as the United States of America do not make the same deal ? our commitment be for that £ 3 billion for as long as it take . it be a solemn and important commitment to Ukraine , and it underline the cross - party support in the House and the strength of support among the british people . New Hospital Programme Review with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the new hospital programme . of all the damage that the conservative party do during their time in office — the break public finance , the broken economy , the broken NHS — perhaps the most egregious be the broken trust between the british people and their government , not just through their scandal or by break the rule they impose on the rest of the country , but by make promise that they never intend to keep . in 2019 , the Conservatives tell the british people that they would build 40 new hospital over the come decade , but there be never 40 new scheme and many of they be extension or refurbishment . put simply , they be not all new , some of they be not hospital , and there be not 40 of they . five year pass , start date be delay , spade remain out of the ground , and it become clear the announcement be a work of fiction . yet what do the conservative party manifesto at last year ' s general election say on the matter ? it say : " we will invest in more and well facility , continue to deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 " . they repeat the promise even though the Department of Health and Social Care be put contract out to tender for hospital building that run until 2035 . they repeat that commitment even after the National Audit Office find that the Government " will not now deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 . " they repeat it even though the Government ' s own infrastructure watchdog deem it to be " unachievable . " no one think that the promise would be meet , yet the Conservative party make it anyway time and again . despite know this , when I walk into the Department of Health and Social Care on 5 July , what I discover shock I . the scheme be not just year behind schedule ; the money provide by the previous Government be due to run out in March , just week from today . on 25 May 2023 , the then Health and Social Care Secretary , the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , stand at this Dispatch Box and tell the House : " today ' s announcement confirm more than £ 20 billion of investment " . — [ Official Report , 25 May 2023 ; Vol . 733 , c . 480 . ] the truth be that no funding have be set aside for future year ; the money simply be not there . this be a programme build on the shaky foundation of false hope . if I be shock by what I discover , patient ought to be furious — not just because the promise make to they be never go to be keep , but because they can see when they go into hospital how badly the health service need new building . the NHS be quite literally crumble . Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation find that the NHS be starve of capital investment by the previous Government . its outdated estate have hit productivity , with service disrupt at 13 hospital every day during 2022 - 23 . I have visit hospital where the roof have fall in and where pipe regularly leak and even freeze over in winter . the Conservatives literally do not fix the roof when the sun be shine . on Thursday , the Infrastructure and Projects Authority publish its annual report for 2023 - 24 . its assessment of the new hospital programme read : " there be major issue with project definition , schedule , budget , quality and / or benefit delivery , which at this stage do not appear to be manageable or resolvable . the project may need re - scope and / or its overall viability reassess . " that be what this Government have do . our review of the new hospital programme and the announcement I be make today will do two thing : first , it will put the programme on a firm foot with sustainable funding , so that all the project can be deliver ; and , secondly , it will give patient an honest , realistic and deliverable timetable that they can believe in . this Labour Government be rebuild our NHS , and as we do so , we will also rebuild trust in politic . the seven hospital build wholly or mostly from reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — RAAC — be outside the scope of the review . these will be rebuild at pace to protect people ' s safety . also out of scope be the hospital already under construction or with an approve business case , where building work have continue without delay . work closely with my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , we have secure five - year wave of investment , back by £ 15 billion of investment over consecutive wave , average £ 3 billion a year . that funding be in addition to the £ 1 billion that the Chancellor announce at the Budget to tackle dangerous raac and the backlog of critical maintenance , repair and upgrade across the NHS estate . it be also in addition to the £ 1 . 5 billion we be invest in new surgical hub , diagnostic scanner and bed . together , it form part of the £ 13 . 6 billion of capital investment announce at the Budget , which be the large capital investment in our national health service since Labour be last in office . I will now set out the new timetable . project in wave zero be already in the advanced stage of development and will be complete within the next three year . these be : the Bamburgh unit , phase 3 of the care environment development and re - provision , or CEDAR programme ; the national rehabilitation centre in Nottinghamshire ; Oriel eye hospital ; Royal Bournemouth hospital ; St Ann ' s hospital ; Alumhurst Road child ' s mental health unit ; and Dorset county hospital . wave 1 scheme will begin construction between 2025 and 2030 . these include the seven RAAC hospital : Leighton hospital ; West Suffolk hospital ; Frimley Park hospital ; Hinchingbrooke hospital ; Queen Elizabeth hospital ; James Paget hospital ; and Airedale general hospital . the other wave 1 scheme be : poole hospital , Milton Keynes hospital ; the 3Ts hospital — trauma , tertiary and training — in Brighton ; the woman and child ' s hospital , Cornwall ; Derriford emergency care hospital ; Cambridge cancer research hospital ; Shotley Bridge community hospital ; North Manchester general hospital ; and Hillingdon hospital . wave 2 scheme will now begin main construction between 2030 and 2035 . they be : Leicester general hospital and Leicester royal infirmary ; Watford general hospital , the specialist and emergency care hospital in Sutton ; Kettering general hospital ; leed general infirmary ; Musgrove Park hospital ; Princess Alexandra hospital ; Torbay hospital ; and Whipps Cross hospital , where I should declare an interest , as it serve my constituency . Wave 3 include nine scheme that will start construction between 2035 and 2039 : St Mary ' s hospital in London ; Charing Cross hospital and Hammersmith hospital ; North Devon district hospital ; Eastbourne district general hospital , Conquest hospital and Bexhill hospital ; Hampshire hospital ; Royal Berkshire hospital ; Royal Preston hospital ; the Royal Lancaster infirmary ; and the Queen ' s medical centre and Nottingham city hospital . follow this statement , further detail of the hospital building programme will be publish on my Department ' s website and a copy of the report will be place in the House of Commons Library . in addition , the Minister for Secondary Care will hold meeting tomorrow , to which mps of all party be invite , to answer any further question about these project . to ensure that every penny of taxpayer ' money be well spend and every hospital be deliver as quickly as possible , we will shortly launch a new framework for the construction of the new scheme . this will be a different way of contracting by work in partnership with industry to mitigate cost , schedule and delivery risk and save money through a standardise design approach . that will speed up the process of open new hospital and provide a foundation for a collaborative supply - chain partnership . we will also appoint a programme delivery partner in the come week to support the delivery of crucial hospital infrastructure across the country and provide programme , project and commercial expertise . I know that patient in some part of the country will be disappoint by this new timetable — they be right to be . they be lead up the garden path by three conservative Prime Ministers , all promise hospital with no credible plan for funding to deliver they , and by conservative mps , who stand on a manifesto promise they know could never be keep . we will not treat the british people with the same contempt . we will never play fast and loose with the public ' s trust . the plan that we have lay out today be honest , fund and can actually be deliver . it be a serious , credible plan to build the hospital that our NHS need . it be part of the big capital investment that the NHS have see since Labour be last in office , deliver not just more hospital but new surgical hub , community diagnostic centre , ai - enable scanner , radiotherapy machine , modern technology , new mental health crisis centre and upgrade to hundred of GP estate . it will take time , but this Labour Government be determined to rebuild our NHS and rebuild trust in politic . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful , as always , to the Secretary of State for his typical courtesy in give I advance sight of his statement . labour be prepared to make all sort of promise in opposition to win power — it promise not to raise taxis on work people , it say that it would not cut the winter fuel payment , and it promise to deliver the new hospital programme — but just as work people , pensioner , farmer and business have find , this be a Labour Government of broken promise . they have cynically betray the trust of the british people . the Secretary of State and the Chancellor travel the country to meet candidate who be promise a new hospital in their local area . in fact , despite my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) call they out in this very place in May last year , warn that Labour have say in the small print of its health mission that it be plan to pause all this capital investment , the Secretary of State be quote in the Evening Standard in June last year to have say : " we be committed to deliver the New Hospitals Programme " . those be seemingly hollow word now that those hospital be at risk , with the investment and upgrade they deserve push back potentially to start in some case as late as 2039 . voter put their trust in the Labour party to deliver on its promise , yet today they have be let down . in response to claim that that be perhaps because of labour ' s economic inheritance , that simply do not reflect reality . before the Secretary of State warm to the theme of the mythical £ 22 billion black hole , he will know that the Office for Budget Responsibility have simply fail to recognise that figure . let we also be clear that , due to the Labour party and the Chancellor ' s financial mismanagement at the Budget and the rise in gilt , the BBC recently estimate that the cost of borrowing could be £ 10 billion high over this Parliament . just imagine what the Secretary of State could have announce today if the Chancellor of the Exchequer have not cause that . to govern be to choose : what to spend money on , what to invest in , and what not to invest in . the Secretary of State rightly point out that the Darzi review highlight the need for more capital investment in the NHS , yet he have decide not to prioritise the delivery of these new hospital in a rapid fashion . he will also know how the Treasury allocate funding , with cash earmark to the end of a spending review period but not go across it until that comprehensive spending review formally conclude — that be what his government be now do . the Secretary of State will be aware that the previous Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , be very clear about the £ 20 billion anticipate in the next CSR to fund this . let I be clear : we prioritise the delivery of these new hospital , as my right hon . friend do in his statement on RAAC on 25 May 2023 , set out the Government ' s commitment to fund they . this Secretary of State have not replicate that . we have a clear plan , with that funding commitment to be formalise at the CSR , to approve , build and complete new hospital to a definition akin to that use by Tony Blair when build new hospital , which be already be design to a standardised approach with modern method of construction . the Secretary of State have put that progress at risk . will he confirm that in his CSR discussion with the Chancellor of the of the Exchequer about the capital departmental expenditure limit — cdel — allocation for his Department , he will prioritise the new hospital programme ? when will the Secretary of State set out to local people in each area exactly when construction will start ? I declare an interest : University Hospitals of Leicester NHS trust serve my constituent . in each case , when will the door actually open ? if the Chancellor fail to get the economy grow and start look yet again for cut to fill the hole that she create with her Budget , will the Secretary of State rule out any further delay ? what be his assessment of the effect of his lengthen the programme ' s timescale on cost , give inflationary pressure ? be all other previously approve capital project and programme safe from review ? can he possibly update the House — via the Library if not here — on his late assessment of the impact of RAAC in those hospital , which rightly he be continue to prioritise ? today ' s announcement will come as a bitter blow to trust , staff and , crucially , patient , who believe the Labour party and will now be leave wait even long for vital investment . yet again , before the election , they talk the talk , but patient lose out when this Government fail to deliver . in yet again kick the can down the road , as be increasingly their habit , they have sadly betray the trust of the british people . this weekend the Leader of the Opposition say that she will be honest about the mistake of the Conservative Government . it seem that the shadow Health Secretary do not get the memo . if the Leader of the opposition be serious about show some contrition , she might want to start here . in 2020 the Department of Health and Social Care request fund from the Treasury to rebuild the seven RAAC hospital . that request be deny , set back the necessary rebuild of those hospital by year . the shadow Secretary of State will remember this , as he be a Minister in the Department at the time . which of his colleague be a Treasury Minister when it block the rebuild of the RAAC hospital ? the Leader of the Opposition . that be her record . she should apologise . once again , like the arsonist return to the scene of the crime to criticise the fire brigade for not respond fast enough , the Conservatives have the audacity to come here and talk about a failure to deliver , when promise after promise be break . the shadow Secretary of State be the Chief Secretary to the Treasury who have to come in to clean up the mess cause by Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget . that be what crash the economy look like . they still have not have the decency , even under new leadership , to apologise . if the shadow Health Secretary genuinely believe that all these project could be deliver by 2030 — the commitment in the Conservatives ' manifesto — I invite he to publish today their plan for do it . how would he ensure the funding , labour supply , building material and planning to build the remain project in the next five year ? which capital programme would he cut ? which taxis would he increase ? he know as well as anyone that those be the choice that face Government . while he be do that , can the shadow Health Secretary tell we what he can see that the National Audit Office , the Infrastructure and Projects Authority and the eye in my head can not see ? what be the Conservatives ' plan past March , when the money run out ? what taxis would they have raise ? I wonder what capital project they would have cut in order to invest even more than we be in hospital building — the big capital investment since Labour be last in office . while he be answer those question , the shadow Healthy Secretary might want to reflect , with the shadow Cabinet and with member on the Benches behind he , on the other mess that this Government be have to clear up . as I look around the Cabinet table , I see an Education Secretary deal with crumble school , a Justice Secretary without enough prison place , a Defence Secretary deal with a more dangerous world , a Transport Secretary have to rebuild our crumble infrastructure , and a Deputy Prime Minister build the home we need — in short , deal with multiple crisis of the Conservatives ' make . there be a massive rebuilding job to do in Britain , and we be get on with it . I think my point will be unlike that of any other Member in the House . the specialist emergency care hospital in Sutton be in tier 2 of these scheme . can I say to the Secretary of State , as I have say to every Health Secretary over the past 25 year , that no one want this ? we want the service at St Helier hospital to remain at St Helier , where the people who be poor and most ill need they . will he look at this £ 500 million - pound scheme to see if it be really necessary ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : I think that will be a unique representation this afternoon . I can already hear the vulture swoop , look for that capital allocation and slot in the pipeline . she have make the case repeatedly , forcefully and with conviction that these service should remain in a community with high level of deprivation and high need . I know that the Minister for Secondary Care , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , have already commit to meet she , and we be very happy to have those conversation with she . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in Hampshire and across the country in 2019 and 2024 , conservative mp stand on the promise of deliver new hospital , include one for Hampshire . however , it turn out that there be never any funding for that , and that those be just false promise to try to get vote . I have fight tirelessly to save and improve Winchester ' s A & E and consultant - lead maternity unit . with the announcement that construction of a propose new hospital in Hampshire will not even start until between 2037 and 2039 , we absolutely need to ensure that the current service be invest in and improve so that they remain fit for purpose . give that the new hospital programme be delay , it be more urgent than ever to increase capacity by fix social care , so that those who be well enough to leave hospital can be care for in the community , thus free up bed immediately . we can not endure both insufficient social care package and crumble hospital . give this delay to the new hospital programme , will the Secretary of State commit to prioritise more social care package now , rather than wait three year for a review to be complete ? although the Health Secretary be not responsible for the state of the NHS or the state of the economy , which the Government inherit , the new hospital programme be see as part of the solution to the crisis in the NHS , and people across the sector have warn that delay the programme will only mean more treatment cancel and more money waste plug hole in hospital building that be no long fit for purpose . we be therefore concerned that one of the big announcement to affect the NHS over the next few year be come out right now , during Donald Trump ' s inauguration , because it will not get the medium attention it deserve . liberal Democrats therefore urge the Health Secretary to promise to release a full impact assessment on how the delay to the new hospital programme will affect patient and NHS staff . I will take those point in turn . with enormous respect for the momentous democratic event take place in Washington today , I do not think that the new President , last time I check , have declare an interest in any of our hospital scheme . I be sure he will forgive we for get on with the job of british government , even as the american handover take place . I commit some time ago to come to the House in the new year . I have keep that promise and I dare say that the decision that we be take and set out today will receive good coverage . I reassure the hon . Gentleman , and other member across the House with an interest in particular scheme , that my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care and official from the programme team will be happy to meet as early as tomorrow to take question on individual scheme . the hon . Gentleman raise broad challenge for the NHS and social care pressure in our country . that be why the Chancellor prioritise investment in our NHS and social care service in the Budget , with £ 26 billion of additional funding for my Department of Health and Social Care . on social care specifically , we have take a number of action in our first six month : fair pay agreement for care professional , the big expansion of the carer ' s allowance since the 1970 and an uplift in funding for local authority , include specific ringfence funding for social care . we will be set out further reform throughout this year , as well as phase 1 of the Casey commission report next year for the duration for this Parliament . opposition Members can not have it both way . they can not keep on welcome the investment and oppose the mean of raise it . if they do not support the Chancellor ' s Budget , which be their democratic right , they have to say which service they would cut or which alternative taxis they would raise . welcome to opposition , folk . we ' ve be there . enjoy the ride : you ' ll be there for some time . finally , let I just say this to the Liberal Democrats , who have constructively raise a range of challenge . this be at the heart of the challenge face this government . the hon . Gentleman be right to mention the capital challenge face the secondary care estate . the same be true of the primary care estate and of the community and mental health estate . as I have spell out , every single one of my Cabinet colleague also have significant capital pressure . that be the consequence of 14 year of under - investment in our public infrastructure and in our public service , which mean that we be pay a hell of a lot more for the Conservatives ' failure than we would have if they have build on , rather than demolish , Labour ' s record of the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . today ' s announcement be welcome for my constituent . it confirm that we be keep the promise we make in 2023 to deliver Hillingdon hospital in the first term of a Labour Government . I thank my right hon . friend for that commitment . we also know that , shamefully , my predecessor and his predecessor mislead my constituent . my predecessor stand here , almost where I be stand today , and tell my constituent that Hillingdon hospital be fully fund and that construction have start . we now know that that simply be not true . do my right hon . friend agree that it be vital that today ' s statement outline a fully fund programme that be deliverable and an honest assessment of when hospital will be deliver ? can he confirm that that be the case ? first , I thank my hon . friend for his strong representation on behalf of his constituent , not just since his election , but before it . between the by - election and his election to this place , he do not give up ; he continue to fight for his community . I stand outside Hillingdon hospital , have have a good look around at the state of the hospital and the plan for the reconstruction of the site . I be delighted to have keep my promise and this Government ' s promise , so that construction at Hillingdon hospital will begin in 2027 - 28 . my hon . friend be quite right to say that his predecessor and his predecessor ' s predecessor make claim about Hillingdon hospital that be not true . this government will not make those mistake . we will keep our promise . what we have set out for all scheme in the new hospital programme be a credible , realistic , funded timetable that this Government , for as long as there be a Labour Government , will actually deliver . I call the Father of the House . will the Secretary of State forgive I if I give the House a few second ' respite from the blame game by try to make a positive suggestion ? everyone accept that the real problem face our hospital be the number of frail and elderly people who do not need to be in hospital and should be in some sort of care facility . do the Secretary of State agree that while build brand - new , all - singing , all - dance hospital be very expensive , there be a future for small cottage hospital such as the one in Gainsborough and a case for open other facility so we can move elderly , frail people out of those big hospital into a caring environment and free up space ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for a rare constructive contribution from the conservative Benches — not rare from he , for he be regularly constructive ; it be the rest of the conservative party that we have a problem with . let I reassure he that one thing we be determined to do be deliver a shift in the centre of gravity , out of hospital and into community , with care close to home and indeed in people ' s home . as I see on a visit to Carlisle over the new year , good intermediate step - down accommodation sometimes provide well - quality and more appropriate care and well value for the taxpayer . that intermediate care facility in Carlisle , fund through the NHS by a social care setting , be provide great - quality rehabilitation in a nice environment at half the cost of the NHS bed up the road . this government will deliver both well care and well value for taxpayer . I be really glad that my right hon . friend have a grip on the hospital building programme and have develop a pipeline for schedule the new hospital . York be not on the list , but give that it be one of the cheap hospital to build , it will certainly need to be there in 10 to 15 year . how will my right hon . friend review hospital that be not on the list and schedule they into future programme ? we keep a regular eye on the capital need of the NHS across the board . subject to the usual constraint on resource , supply chain construction industry capacity and so on , we will continue to do so . we be determined not to repeat the mistake of our predecessor , but to ensure that the promise we make be promise we can keep . before the general election be call , there be a clear indication from the Government that they intend to fund the — only — £ 25 million reconstruction of the maternity unit at the QEQM hospital in Margate , which emerge from the Bill Kirkup report . I will be grateful if the Secretary of State can tell I whether it be his intention to ensure that that funding be make available . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the number of house that the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government be determined to see build . could he explain , for the sake of East Kent , how the primary and secondary healthcare service will be provide to meet the need of the people who will live in those house ? I be very aware of the challenge in East Kent and the challenge of provide good - quality care and the facility that people need . I be sure that Ministers will be happy to receive representation from the right hon . Gentleman . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Government ' s commitment to build 1 . 5 million more home . let I reassure he and the House that the Deputy Prime Minister and I , as well as other member of the Cabinet , be discuss very carefully how we can make sure that alongside the new home that our country need , we have the infrastructure and the public service that people deserve . my predecessor in Chelsea and Fulham claim to have secure funding for Charing Cross hospital . that claim go out on election literature throughout the constituency . at the time , I doubt it . today ' s announcement confirm beyond any doubt that the money be not there . what he be say be not true . I welcome the honesty and realism of the Government ' s statement today . it be about time the british people have a Government play straight with they and tell they the truth . [ interruption . ] instead of laugh and jeering from the Conservative Benches , which be of no use to my constituent in Chelsea and Fulham who be promise the money for Charing Cross hospital when it be never there , I would like to see some contrition . on a more positive note , can the Secretary of State assure my constituent that the timetable that he have set out will be meet ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . I thank he for the very strong representation that he have make on behalf of his local trust since his election to this House . I be afraid that the extent to which promise be make about this scheme that could not be keep be shameful . I can reassure he that pre - construction work will take place between 2030 and 2035 . as he know , this be not a straightforward project , but it be one to which we be very much committed , with construction due to start around 2036 . I be very happy to continue to work with my hon . friend and with neighbouring right hon . and hon . member to make sure that the trust be support during that period , give the day - to - day challenge that it face . the acute hospital that serve most of my constituency be the Royal Lancaster infirmary . it be an overcrowded victorian hospital ; part of it be fall to bit , it have inadequate parking and it be at the wrong end of a one - way system . with the Secretary of State ' s help , the local hospital trust have acquire an almost perfect site for a rebuild . the trust have design the new hospital and even begin consult the public on it , so today ' s announcement that we face a 10 - year wait until a spade be dig into the ground will come as something of a bombshell . will he reconsider the timescale ? the long we leave it , the more the cost will spiral and , I be afraid , the less likely it be that people will have confidence that it will even happen at all . on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , I can well understand why people across the country will be cynical about commitment make on hospital , give the experience that they have under our conservative predecessor . even if not every decision that we be take be universally popular , I hope that people will appreciate our up - front candour and honesty in not try to pull the wool over their eye , and in set out in today ' s report , in term , the timetable for pre - construction work and for start construction . in the particular case that the hon . Gentleman raise , I hope that the fact that land be acquire by this Government in December 2024 signal our absolute commitment to the scheme . if we be not commit to the scheme , we would not have make the land purchase up front ahead of pre - construction work , which be plan for 2030 . we do so because we absolutely accept the case that he make about the desirability of the site and the need for investment and the new hospital locally . in addition to the representation from the hon . Gentleman , my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) win the award for be the first MP to collar I straight after the election to say , " buy this land and do it now . " after year of broken Tory promise on new hospital , can the Secretary of State confirm today that , follow this review , my constituent in Blaydon and Consett can at last be confident that we have an honest , realistic and deliverable timetable that they can believe in ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the representation that she have consistently make since before the general election . I think her constituent will particularly welcome the investment in Shotley Bridge community hospital , which will be in wave 1 , with construction start in 2026 - 27 . I know that that be not the only need for health and care provision in her constituency ; we will continue to work together to make sure that her constituent experience an improve nhs , as oppose to be lumber with the broken one that be leave behind by the Conservatives . this announcement will come as a terrible blow to the people serve by Basingstoke and North Hampshire hospital , particularly after the very personal commitment make by the now Prime Minister in June 2024 . we assume from what the Secretary of State have say today that , come the spending review , the Government will set out detailed capital budget stretch into the 2040s . can he tell we in the meantime what his announcement will do to his projection for operating cost , for repair and maintenance cost and for the provision of stopgap facility where they be need ? give that the right hon . Gentleman serve in the Cabinet under successive conservative Governments , he have some brass neck , frankly , in turn up today and complain in the way that he have . he want to talk about the cost place on the country , but he should look in the mirror and consider the cost that he and his colleague in government lumber this country with when they impose over a decade of austerity , of Trussonomics and the bad sort of kamikaze ideological project that this country have experience in modern time . I would just remind the right hon . Gentleman — [ interruption . ] I remind he and those on the conservative Benches who be live in an alternate reality where they bear no responsibility for their action of only month ago , that the National Audit Office say : " by the definition the government use in 2020 , it will not now deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 . " the Infrastructure and Projects Authority give the scheme a red rating , say that " the project appear to be unachievable … the project may need re - scope and / or its overall viability reassess . " what on earth do he think that record do for NHS manager , give the stop - start , stop - start ? what on earth do he think that do to community who be seek certainty and assume that the promise make by the Conservatives would be keep ? they say in their manifesto only last July that they would deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 . well , accord to the NAO ' s definition and the IPA ' s report , that promise be never go to be keep . they know it . they do not care . they just say what they want to try to win vote , and that be disgraceful . rise — order . member will have see how many people be on their foot want to ask the Secretary of State a question . could I ask Members please to try to keep their question and answer quite short ? I want to try to get everybody in , if at all possible . my right hon . friend ' s statement stand in sharp contrast to that make on 25 May 2023 by the previous Secretary of State , when he completely forget to put in his statement , both write and verbal , North Manchester general hospital . I be pleased that North Manchester general hospital be today in the first wave , but I would be grateful if my right hon . friend could spell out in detail when the work will continue , because in one of the area of the country with the bad health outcome , it be not only a hospital scheme ; it be an urban regeneration scheme , and some work have start . will that work be allow to continue ? can he give I some detail , please ? my hon . friend be right about the sorry state that North Manchester general hospital have be leave in by our conservative predecessor , not least the critical infrastructure risk at that hospital . Most of the exist estate date back to the 1870 , and NHS leader , manager and staff be have to deal with multiple day - to - day operational issue , include poor fabric and fire safety , ventilation , asbestos and water management issue . that be why I be delighted to confirm to my hon . friend that the work will continue and construction will start in 2027 - 28 . I be look forward to work with he , other Greater Manchester MPs , the leader of the city council and the Mayor of Greater Manchester to make sure that this project deliver for the health and the wide economic benefit and need of the people of Greater Manchester . give how Government finance work , the Secretary of State know that he have , in effect , cancel the replacement of Basingstoke and North Hampshire hospital . that be despite , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) say , the now Prime Minister go there during the election campaign and make a specific , unequivocal and unconditional promise that the hospital would be replace by 2030 . sadly , it look like that will now not be the case . I be sure the hon . member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) , who be in the Chamber , will be consider his position , give the promise he make . be we able to rescue something from this wreckage by purchase the site ? as the Secretary of State will know , we be now likely to lose the land . it be a critical site , so can we please buy it before it slip from our grasp ? we be happy to receive sensible representation from member about their project , as we have from my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) . it be a bit rich for Conservative Members to talk about understand how public finance work . last autumn , I meet the Secretary of State to discuss the rebuild of the RAAC - infest Airedale general hospital . I reiterate my thank on behalf of my constituent , who be be treat in ward with prop - up ceiling , for his and the ministerial team ' s commitment to ensure that this vital new hospital go ahead with a deliverable timetable and a sustainable funding plan . do my right hon . friend agree that the previous Government ' s commitment to deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 be , as the NAO conclude , disingenuous and " unrealistic " ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . we be very fortunate to have in the House someone with her experience of social care and health issue . she have already do an outstanding job represent her constituent , who I know will not only welcome the news that Airedale general hospital will begin construction in 2027 - 28 but will be appal that , as a RAAC hospital , work could have be well under way have the Department ' s request for funding not be deny by the woman who be now the leader of the Conservative party . I sympathise with the Secretary of State for have to pull these project out of the fire of non - funding , and I thank he for the announcement on the woman and child ' s hospital in Cornwall . I know that all my parliamentary colleague in Cornwall will be delighted at today ' s news . I sympathise with colleague who find themselves in wave 2 and 3 . what can the Secretary of State do to crack on with the enable work to ensure that this project be deliver in double - quick time ? it be desperately need , and a 2030 finish date will be challenge for Cornwall . it would be much appreciated if it could be bring forward . I be grateful for the way in which the hon . Gentleman pose his question . I can confirm that pre - construction work be ongoing , with construction due to start between 2027 and 2029 . a lot have be say about what my party say before the election , and I will give Opposition Members a role model in how to do honesty ahead of an election . I stand outside the Royal Cornwall hospital and be ask by local medium whether I would commit to a specific timetable , and I say , " we have commit to the new hospital programme . we be committed to see through the new woman and child ' s hospital at the Royal Cornwall , and I know that enable work be under way . beyond that , we be go to take an honest look at the book . " that be the approach I take as shadow Health and Social Care Secretary , and that be how to do it — to under - promise and then over - deliver . leed general infirmary receive outline planning permission in 2020 . two conservative Prime Ministers come to Leeds and promise that we would get our new hospital , despite know that the funding be not there in the Treasury . I thank my right hon . friend for visit the LGI . now that we know we be in wave 2 , will he meet I and the chief executive to talk about one of the large maintenance backlog in the NHS , how we be go to cope in the intervene period , and how we be go to move forward and hit wave 2 run to get our hospital build before we need to close down our child ' s service , which be at risk ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight the extent to which leed general infirmary be let down over 14 year of Conservative Government , with initial under - investment follow by total inactivity , apart from a big pile of dirt outside the hospital , which I go to see with the then shadow Chancellor . the Chancellor and I be both commit to the project : we know how important it be . we have have to phase the programme so we can say it be genuinely affordable , deliverable and credible on this timetable . I reassure my hon . friend that pre - construction work will take place over 2030 to 2032 , with construction due to start in 2033 to 2035 . we would be delighted to receive representation from mps from his city and across the region about the support we provide to the trust in the meantime . airedale hospital have some of the bad RAAC of all the hospital on the new hospital programme . all the survey have say that give the risk profile associate with RAAC , part of the hospital will have no life expectancy beyond 2030 , which be why the completion date of 2030 be so important . with fund have be allocate to the project for it to be deliver , it be disappointing to hear today that the start date will be between 2025 and 2030 . when be it likely that the new , rebuild Airedale hospital will open ? will the Health Secretary provide the trust with confidence that additional fund will be available to help with the mitigation that need to take place before the new hospital can open , to keep the exist hospital operational ? if the hon . Gentleman be disappoint with this Government , he will be absolutely furious when he find out who be in power before . in fact , he be a dead ringer for the guy I use to see on the conservative Benches cheer on and vote for every calamitous decision the Conservative Government take , include crash the economy and support the now Leader of the opposition when she reject appeal to fund RAAC hospital . we be prioritise those hospital and go as fast as we can . the rebuilding will happen under a Labour Government , but it do not happen under the Tories , do it ? I welcome the honesty with which my right hon . friend be approach this matter , because government should not make false promise . I have the chance to visit a couple of the RAAC hospital , and the Public Accounts Committee , which I use to chair , examine Hospital 2 . 0 , the standardised approach he talk about . it contain some quite startling assumption , so will he assure I and the House that he have look into those in detail and that we be absolutely sure about the date of delivery ? I reassure my hon . friend that the approach we be take , particularly the step in the come week on the outline for key delivery and the appointment of a partner , give I the confidence and assurance to know that the timetable we have set out be affordable and credible . I be always happy to receive advice and representation from my hon . friend , who know a huge amount about what she speak about . in a few week ' time , I will celebrate my 42nd birthday . I be bear at the Royal Berkshire hospital in Newbury , and give the Secretary of State ' s announcement today , I will be celebrate my 60th birthday when the new hospital be due to open . will the Secretary of State talk we through how operational budget will be increase at hospital such as the Royal Berkshire , which currently have a backlog of repair of over £ 200 million that could stop operation and procedure happen ? how will the Government ensure that money be in place while we wait 14 year for our new hospital ? I will be get to 42 slightly early than the hon . Gentleman , as it be my 42nd birthday tomorrow — I look forward to the card in the post . more seriously , on the phasing of the programme , we have take an approach that ensure that we can stand up and look his constituent and other in the eye , and say that we have an affordable programme that can be deliver accord to the timetable that be set out . I know people will be disappoint by the length of time it will take and I be genuinely sorry that they be lead up the garden path by our predecessor . that be why we have take an approach that say that honesty be the good policy . we would rather be up front about the length of time and in the meantime ensure we be deliver the investment and reform need to reduce waiting time and improve primary , community and social care service , so even as work continue to prepare for the Royal Berkshire hospital scheme , his constituent and other across Berkshire will begin to experience an improve NHS under Labour , as oppose to the broken one they experience under the Conservatives . while I welcome the firm commitment that the Secretary of State have make to a new Royal Berkshire hospital , my constituent will share my disappointment at the delay to its construction . I agree that the blame for the delay lie squarely with the Conservatives , who promise new hospital without set aside the money to pay for they , but will my right hon . friend visit the Royal Berkshire hospital to discuss the interim capital funding that we will need as we wait for wave 3 , and to see for himself how important it be that our new hospital be build as soon as possible ? no one have fight hard for the Royal Berkshire hospital scheme than my hon . friend , and our hon . friend the Members for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , who be sit beside she . they have work incredibly hard as a team to make the case for investment in health and social care across Berkshire . I would be delighted to visit , because she be right that even as people wait for this particular hospital scheme there be a lot that we can , must and will do to improve health and social care service across her constituency and across Berkshire . I look forward to work with my hon . friend to achieve that . the Health Secretary have recognise the urgency of replace the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn due to the RAAC safety issue . my constituent and I be grateful for that ; it reflect the position of the last Conservative Government . in his statement , he say that he be work at pace to rebuild QEH , so will he instruct the NHS to expedite the business case approval for the new multi - storey car park , which be the key enable project , and will he commit to the 2030 deadline , which be the end of life of the hospital ? we recognise the challenge of RAAC in the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn , and take that approach from the outset . I can confirm that the programme will start construction in 2027 - 28 . it be due to complete in 2032 - 33 but will be prioritise for expedition as a RAAC scheme . if we can go fast , we will . today I be set out a credible timetable . if we be able to under - promise and over - deliver , I will be delighted , but I reassure the hon . Gentleman that we be go as far and as fast as we can , give the safety challenge . if he be not happy with the pace , he should reflect on the fact that one of the local mps be a former Prime Minister . she have the chance to get on with it . I hope I do not get a legal letter , but she do not deliver , do she ? for nearly 25 year , I have be part of campaign to either save or rebuild Whipps Cross hospital . for the last 10 year , I have stand shoulder to shoulder with the Secretary of State , so I know — let I put this on the record for he , because he can not say it — his pain and frustration that we be now talk about eight year to restart the building work that have already start at Whipps Cross , and which will finally deliver the new hospital that we need and a thousand new home in our community . it be devastating to we all , but we can see from the list that some hospital have move between the different wave . give that , and give the example of funding source that can be put together , will he organise an urgent meeting — we know about his conflict of interest — for all mp whose constituent use Whipps Cross , to look at the criterion and possible new source of funding ? I know that he will agree that we owe it to our constituent not to give up fighting for the hospital that our community so desperately need . as my hon . Friend say , I must declare an interest , as Whipps Cross hospital and Barts health NHS trust serve my constituent . I would be delighted to lead a delegation with she to lobby the Minister of State for health , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , who have to take decision on scheme that affect my constituency . it would be nice to be on the other side of exchange for the first time in a while . let I reassure the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , and my own , that pre - construction work on Whipps Cross hospital be due to begin in 2029 to 2031 , with construction begin in 2032 to 2034 . my constituent know I well enough to know that if we could go fast , we would do so . on alternative investment vehicle and mean of raise additional capital investment — not to mention learn from some of the less successful initiative of the past — I would be delighted to work with Treasury colleague and Government Members on how we can get more capital investment , but for reason that she will well understand , we need to tread carefully on that point . the Secretary of State inherit Torbay hospital where we have have almost 700 sewage leak , many of which have impact clinical area of the hospital and , sadly , that be set to continue . the hospital operate at 98 % bed capacity , which only result in poor service for resident , and that be set to continue . will he reflect on the fact that many people in Torbay will fear they have suffer the impact of the national insurance hike in our low - wage economy , but without see much of the gain for our hospital ? I say two thing to the hon . Gentleman . first , we recognise the need for investment in Torbay hospital . we be committed to it , and that be what this programme commit we to deliver , with pre - construction work begin from 2030 to 2032 and construction begin in 2033 to 2035 . secondly , I say to he and other Opposition Members who oppose the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget that they can not welcome the investment on one hand and oppose the mean of raise it on the other — unless , of course , they spell out which service they would cut or which alternative taxis they would increase . that be the challenge we face . the Chancellor have have to do a hell of a lot of heavy lifting to clean up the mess leave by the Conservatives , and I support her decision . I thank the Secretary of State — he be do what he should be do and what should have be do before : tell truth to the people and the Commons . I will not waste any time . I urge the Secretary of State to get his appropriate Minister , if not himself , to visit Whiston hospital and St Helens local authority . they will show he how thing can work well than at present with proper integrate health and social care . I ask he to please pay a visit . it be worth it ; he can not afford not to go . there ' s an offer I can ' t refuse . my hon . friend be a great champion of health and care service in her community and have enormous experience in local government . we be always look for good practice . we want to take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS , and we would be delighted to hear more about the success in her community . as the Secretary of State will be aware , I and mp from surround constituency write to he at the beginning of December to talk about Watford general hospital . I be sure that I speak on behalf of the two Labour mp , one Lib Dem and a conservative colleague when I say we be disappointed that he have decide to delay reconstruction of Watford general until at least 2030 . notwithstanding my public disappointment and give that all six of we campaign actively on investment in Watford general , the statement say that further detail will be provide in the hospital building programme . if there be assumption there that we wish to challenge — such as build cost — do we go to the Secretary of State or the Minister of State with those question ? the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , will be hold briefing tomorrow for member from across the House and be happy to receive further question . the hon . Member seem to be say on the one hand to go fast , and on the other that he want to challenge underlying assumption in the scheme . he can not have it both way . as I say to some of his hon . friend , if he be disappoint with this government as we clean up the mess they leave behind , goodness know the self - loathing he feel when they be in government . I feel doubly bless this afternoon because the West Suffolk hospital in my constituency be to be rebuild and the James Paget hospital where I have work for 30 year be to be rebuild . do the Secretary of State agree that our primary care estate be in a terrible situation and that we must also invest in general practice facility ? with that track record , my hon . friend might want to tell we this week ' s lottery number while he be here . in all seriousness , he make a good point . although today ' s statement be about the new hospital programme , the challenge across the health and social care estate be enormous . that be why the Chancellor commit at Budget to the capital investment that will deliver not only this programme but a significant investment in the general practice estate . we have an enormous array of capital challenge in health and social care . I ask Members on both side of the House to bear in mind that while I have to struggle to weigh up the compete priority across the health and social care budget , the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have to do so not only for health and social care , but for education , transport , defence , justice , the police estate — right across the board , we have inherit a country leave in an enormous hole . we be take the necessary decision to get our country out of that hole and beat a path to a well future . one of the hospital that my constituent and wide Buckinghamshire resident rely on for treatment be Wycombe hospital . it be not a RAAC hospital , but severe maintenance issue in the age tower mean that it be lose about 2 , 000 hour of operating time per year . in the spirit of the transparency that the Secretary of State speak of , will he tell the House where the elongation of the new hospital programme leave the work at Wycombe hospital , and will he meet I to discuss constructively how to move that work forward so that Wycombe can get the new surgical hub that it need ? I be always open to constructive representation . as I say in my statement , the capital envelope that the Chancellor have give my Department — the big since Labour be last in office — include fund for exactly those sort of maintenance , backlog and disrepair challenge in the NHS estate . it be not just about new unit or hospital ; it be also about ensure that the current estate can deliver the quality of care and the value for money that our constituent deserve . I would be happy to take representation from the hon . Gentleman . the Conservatives make promise about 40 new hospital that they know they could not build and deliver , and now it turn out that they know they could not pay for they by 2030 . it be little wonder that trust in politic be so low at the moment . it be also little wonder , give the unedifye display from Conservative Front Benchers today , that they be sit on the Opposition Benches . it fall on this government to take the decision that the Conservatives duck when they be in power . give that trust be so low , what reassurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that the Leeds general infirmary will be deliver accord to the timetable that he have set out today ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his representation and for his outstanding work for the people of Leeds since his election . I can reassure his constituent that this be a credible and funded timetable that we can stick to — and I be determined to ensure that we do . as for promise make by the Conservatives , we see the crocodile tear from the Leader of the Opposition this weekend . she say that she will admit that the Conservatives get thing wrong , but she never , ever give a specific example . in fact , we have hear more about steak sandwich than humble pie since the election . the previous Conservative Government promise the people of west Hertfordshire that we would have a new hospital , and they even claim that it be fully fund , so our sense of betrayal be incredibly acute . today , the Labour Government have announce that the rebuild start for Watford general hospital have be push back by seven to nine year , without minister have even visit the hospital , even though it be shovel - ready . we have the land , we have the planning permission and we have do the enable work , so can the Secretary of State say why 23 hospital be ahead of Watford general , and what money will be make available for repair bill , which will inevitably pile up , possibly for the good part of a decade , while our hospital be leave to crumble ? I can well understand the hon . member ' s anger on behalf of her St Albans constituent , who be invest in this project , as be the constituent of my hon . friend the Members for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) and for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) . she will be able to see in the report , which we be place online and in the Library , the methodology that we follow to assess prioritisation and ordering of scheme , which be about affordability , deliverability and the other factor that she would expect we to take into account . that be how we reach today ' s decision . I can reassure she and her constituent that pre - construction work will begin from 2028 to 2030 , with construction begin in 2031 to 2033 . those of her constituent who be angry about the delay do not need to be tell where the blame lie . that be why they return a Liberal Democrat MP instead of a Conservative . rise — Order . I plan to run this statement until 6 o ' clock , so I ask member to please help each other out by keep their question and answer short . my predecessor tell my constituent that the work on Kettering general hospital be ready to go . it be shameful that , in reality , the Conservatives have no credible plan , and the money be go to run out in March this year . do the Secretary of State agree that people in Kettering be right to be angry at the previous Government for break their promise , and can he reassure my constituent that they will see a realistic , deliverable timeframe for the rebuild of our hospital ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have raise this issue consistently and persistently with I since she be elect . I can reassure she and her constituent that pre - construction work will begin from 2028 to 2030 , with construction start in 2031 and last until 2032 . I be extremely sorry that my hon . friend ' s constituent be lead up the garden path ; I rather feel that they have already rumble the Conservatives by send she to Parliament , but for as long as there be a Labour Government , we will deliver for the people of Kettering . I will say it , because no one else have : many happy return for tomorrow . I genuinely think that you be in your mid - 30 — that the Secretary of State be in his mid - 30 . and Madam Deputy Speaker . [ Laughter . ] she ' s happy with that ! I also congratulate the Secretary of State on come to the Chamber with such a massive capital expenditure announcement and elicit a saving with his answer to the first question from the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . one of the plan that go by the board in May , for reason I have not quite get to the bottom of , be for the Staines health and wellbeing centre , which be one of only six community diagnostic hub that NHS England have allocate in England . the funding get pull in May ; will the Secretary of State please have another look at it ? I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for that question . I think he be go to go far in this place , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I would be delighted to look favourably on his representation about his local facility . my local hospital be not select for the new hospital programme . while I be happy for colleague who have receive some certainty today on when work on their local hospital will start , do the Secretary of State recognise that there be hospital the length and breadth of this country that be fall apart , and that staff and patient deserve well ? will he commit to consider a wide estate plan for the rest of the NHS estate , especially in east Kent ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , and for the outstanding work he have do represent his constituent since his election . he make the really important point that , of the record investment that the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have give to my Department for capital investment — the big allocation since Labour be last in government — £ 3 billion a year be allocate for the new hospital programme . eagle - eyed people have notice that a sum much large than £ 3 billion a year be available for capital investment , precisely because there be a need for improvement and modernisation of the exist estate right across the health and social care estate , as I know from the representation that be pile into my inbox from my constituent who use queen ' s hospital in Romford . I can assure my hon . friend that we be look across the board at the capital need in the NHS and social care and prioritise accordingly , and I would be delighted to receive his representation . hinchingbrooke hospital in Huntingdon be one of the RAAC hospital for which funding have already be approve . that hospital will not be allocate grid space until quarter 1 of 2028 , but it will need it by Q1 2027 in order to keep the build on track . additionally , traffic around the hospital be frequently gridlocke . a vital new access road be part of the plan , but the land where it would go be own by Cambridgeshire constabulary and National Highways , who be yet to give up the additional land they acquire via compulsory purchase order when construct view Common Road . will the Health Secretary meet I in order to work through those blocker — give that they be all be cause by Government agency — and meet Hinchingbrooke hospital ' s 2030 delivery date , and can he confirm that the 2030 date be still the target ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his representation . this government be on the side of the builder , not the blocker . I can confirm to he that we be determined to start Hinchingbrooke in 2027 - 28 . we work closely with the local project team , but we would be delighted to receive representation about his frustration with the delivery of that project . the last time the Secretary of State come to the Chamber to talk about the new hospital programme , I share the story of take my 93 - year - old grandmother to accident and emergency at Milton Keynes hospital , only to be tell when we get there that the wait time be nine and a half hour . I be afraid to say she be back there again early this month , and despite the tireless effort of our incredible NHS staff , the brutal reality of 14 year of Tory neglect mean she do not get the care she desperately need and deserve . however , it be not just my family ; this be the live experience of countless people across my constituency . on behalf of my grandmother , my family , my friend and my neighbour , I thank the Secretary of State for do what the previous Government fail to do , which be secure the extra funding need for the new hospital in Milton Keynes . can I ask that he continue to work with I and the other mps across Milton Keynes to ensure we get spade in the ground as soon as possible ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend , who have do so much with his parliamentary neighbour in Milton Keynes and Bletchley to get this scheme deliver and go as fast as possible . he underline how important this be : it be not just about brick and mortar ; it be about people ' s life and life chance . he really bring that home with his powerful contribution . I can reassure he that pre - construction work be ongoing , with construction due to begin in 2027 - 28 , which I know will be welcome by people who use the hospital right across Milton Keynes and beyond . my former constituency neighbour Councillor Steve Tuckwell chair the planning committee that grant permission for the new Hillingdon hospital , which serve my constituent . for full disclosure , my wife work there as an NHS doctor . those of we who be local resident see pre - construction work under way , include sewerage , electric and demolition and strip - out begin in the building . will the Secretary of State apologise to my constituent affect by this for the delay that he have introduce to this project ? will he consider lobby the Chancellor and the Prime Minister to cancel the Chagos island deal , the cost of which alone would fund 10 new NHS hospital ? it be truly extraordinary that we have a Conservative Member stand up and criticise a Labour Government for deliver the Hillingdon hospital project , which will begin construction — not pre - works , but deliver — in 2027 - 28 , as I promise the people of Hillingdon . that be what we be deliver , and people should judge the contrast between a Labour Government who be deliver and not just Conservative Members , but a conservative Prime Minister , who make promise on the 40 hospital , do not follow through and walk away , leave we to pick up the piece . first , I say happy birthday to the Secretary of State for tomorrow . I can not think of a well birthday present than to give the people of Milton Keynes a new woman ' s and child ' s hospital . we be a grow city , and nowhere be it more need in term of population per bed . will he reassure my constituent that the money have be find and allocate , because they feel they be take for mug after the scheme be announce by the previous Government and the previous mps more than four time , but be never fund and never deliver ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her birthday wish , even after I announce the timetable that I know she and her constituent want . on a serious note , I think people will see the contrast between send Conservative member from Milton Keynes , with inaction and broken promise , and send Labour member from Milton Keynes who be deliver . I be delighted with the work and improvement we will be able to deliver for her constituent . I hope member right across the House , whichever wave their hospital be in , know that this Government have set out a timetable that be credible and deliverable , and a funding package that will be deliver for as long as there be a Labour Government . my constituent in North Devon be let down by the previous Government , and they will be utterly dismay to find that the remotest hospital in England have be pass over again for essential repair — it be now beyond 2035 . do the Department understand that if critical care and operating theatre facility begin to fail within the next five year , as expect , there be no alternative critical care for patient for over 40 mile ? I invite the Secretary of State to come to see for himself why investment be need now , and to visit North Devon district hospital because it have not have a ministerial visit from this Government . I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . I can tell his constituent that , since his arrival , he have be absolutely dog in pursuit of health and care investment in his community . I say to his constituent that we will deliver against this timetable . the funding be there , and it will be there for as long as there be a Labour Government . in the meantime , we would be happy to work with he to make sure that rural community such as his receive the investment they need , and my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care or I would be delighted to visit at some point soon . there be no doubt but that this statement will be meet with a deal of anger and frustration by my constituent . the hospital in Basingstoke be badly need , and they be not get the healthcare they deserve . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) call on I to consider my position . I would call on he , be he still in his place , to consider his connection with reality , because there be absolutely no doubt where the blame for that anger and frustration should lie , and that be with Conservative Members . [ interruption . ] they repeatedly tell my constituent that the hospital be fund ; it be not . they tell we it would be deliver by 2030 , but they themselves delay this fictitious plan until 2033 , and the right hon . Member have the gall to ask I to consider my position . I be surprised he could make it to the Chamber today , so weigh down he must have be by his brass neck . that bring I to my question . I welcome the clarity that the Secretary of State have bring to the scheme and to the House today . a number of the hospital in cohort 4 , which include Basingstoke hospital , have be move forward , such as the hospital in Milton Keynes and Kettering . I be of course delighted for my colleague , but I would be interested to know why they have be move , but Basingstoke be where it be . what confidence can the Secretary of State give my constituent that under our plan , unlike the previous Government ' s , they can be confident that Basingstoke hospital will be deliver as we have set out ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I be not surprised that Conservative Members try to shout he down . they want to silence criticism of their record because they be ashamed of it . that be a simple fact . he be absolutely right about his parliamentary neighbour , who sit around the Cabinet table of the notorious Liz Truss , even as she crash the economy , and then have the temerity to turn up and lecture other people about the sound management of public money . these people have no shame whatsoever , and they will have no credibility until they sincerely and honestly apologise to the country for the mess they make . I be very happy to talk through with my hon . friend and his constituent why his project have be phase as it have . there be a number of constrain factor — not just resource , but other factor such as allocation of land , plan and so on — but I reassure his constituent that we will deliver . I also reassure his constituent that , since his arrival in this place , he have be absolutely dog and determine in speak up for they and lobby on their behalf . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s clarification on the timing of the new Sutton specialist hospital , which will serve my constituency . I be really pleased that the project be go ahead , although the delay be disappointing . the current situation at Epsom and St Helier university hospital NHS trust be not sustainable . the trust currently run duplicate service across two site , which make staffing incredibly difficult . the physical estate be deteriorate fast than it can be fix , and some of the building be old than the NHS itself . could the Secretary of State set out how he intend to reduce waiting list in Reigate , Redhill , Banstead and our village in the short term in the light of the delay to this project ? I can reassure the hon . member that the hospital be due to start construction from 2032 to 2034 — although my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) have other idea . on cut waiting time , just early this month the Prime Minister and I publish this government ' s elective reform plan so that we can deliver the 18 - week standard for referral to treatment , which have not be meet for a decade . have the hon . member be here during the last Parliament , she would have be absolutely shocked at where the Conservatives lead we : from the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction under Labour to the high waiting list and low patient satisfaction on record . trust in the delivery of healthcare for my constituent have be damage by 14 year of fail NHS policy and fake Tory promise for new hospital — the Tories know full well that they do not have the money to deliver they . they visit Whipps Cross five time for announcement but deliver nothing — not a brick , not a penny , and certainly no hospital . although the delay confirm today be disappointing , we welcome the honesty and the work to mitigate the impact of Tory failure . the campaign for Whipps Cross hospital be not over , however . as the Secretary of State ' s team know , we will continue to make other Departments aware of the impact on their housing programme and continue to seek their support on his behalf . I be grateful for his remark early about meeting to look at alternative funding method . will the Secretary of State confirm that funding for remediation and maintenance work will be make available to get our hospital to its wave 2 start line ? I be grateful to my parliamentary neighbour for his representation and reassure he and his constituent — and mine , for that matter — that thank to the capital allocation at the Budget provide by the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , who be in his place , we will be invest more in capital than at any point since Labour be last in office , because we recognise the capital funding pressure right across the NHS estate . we be determined to meet those pressure and clear up the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . I know that across the House and the country there will be real anger at the promise make by the Conservatives when people see that the timetable be a work of fiction and the money be not there . I hope it be of some reassurance to know that this Secretary of State represent a community that be also feel let down by the action of the Conservatives , as do the Chancellor of the Exchequer . the way in which we have phase this scheme , and the fact that both our scheme be in wave 2 , should reassure people that we be do as much as we can as fast as we can within the constraint . I hope that people will take some comfort from the honesty , credibility and affordability of the timetable we be set out today . as long as there be a Labour Government , the new hospital programme will be deliver . office for Value for Money Treasury Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Treasury Committee . Dame Meg Hillier will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . it give I great pleasure to make a statement on the first report of the Treasury Committee in this Parliament , and I again thank the House for give I the honour of occupy this position . our first report be on the new Office for Value for Money . there will not be a single member who do not believe in value for money for our constituent , who pay for Government service through hard - earn taxis that they give grudgingly to be spend well . as the Chancellor herself have be very clear , the taxpayer be not an automatic cash machine and every penny of taxpayer money need to be spend as well as possible . the notion of value for money be one we would all support . we also need transparency , and that be a large part of the role of Select Committees : to shine a light on Government action . this be our first public report shine a light on the work of the Treasury . the Office for Value for money be a short - lived , year - long body that be expect to have 20 staff , include secondee from the National Audit Office and the evaluation taskforce in the Cabinet Office . it be head by a chair , who tell we that it would conduct a small number of study mainly on a cross - departmental basis to identify well value for money across Government . when we speak to the chair in our hearing at the end of December , we find that although it be suppose to have 20 member of staff , it only have 12 and all be below director - general level , so not the most senior civil servant . that total of 12 and the ultimate total of 20 will include secondee . it have not rule out in December use external consultant to bolster the skill it will need to deliver on its work . it have not yet decide at the end of December into which area it would launch study , and nor have it set the parameter for evaluate its effectiveness . the Committee be clear that have a body with a name we would all agree with the principle of be not enough ; we want to see such a body deliver for our constituent . we highlight in our report that there be a risk of duplication . there be already a large number of body across Government that deliver on value for money , scrutinise Government , and shine a light on how money be spend : the National Audit Office , which have nearly 1 , 000 staff in Newcastle and London ; the evaluation taskforce in the Cabinet Office , which evaluate project across Government to make sure they be properly deliver ; the new National Infrastructure and Service Transformation Authority , which will be operational in the spring and bring together the previous Infrastructure and Projects Authority in a slightly different format . there be also unit in Departments that work to deliver on value for money in a range of area , in particular the new arrangement for the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , with its centre for digital transformation of public service . the Cabinet Office also have a readiness programme , base on regulation arise from the Procurement Act 2023 , call " transform public procurement " . there be also the rainbow of book . if we walk into the Treasury and ask question about the green book , the teal book and the magenta book — and there be other — we will learn that be an important infrastructure for how it issue guidance . the green book appraise policy , programme and project . the teal book provide guidance on project delivery in Government , include manage project , programme and portfolio — that have be in an internal trial since July 2024 . the magenta book provide Treasury guidance on what to consider when design evaluation . there be also a number of framework , include the Government efficiency framework and the public value framework . dataset be also provide , include the priority outcome and metric first set out in the spending review of 2020 . one of the most crucial element in deliver value for money be that every Department have outcome delivery plan address the meat and drink of what be go on in Government . as secretary of State sit and plan what they might have to deliver in the spending review come up in June , they will be pore over those outcome delivery plan as they do their departmental review ; each Department will have its own review to look at where money be be spend and what project be be deliver . overarch this there be " manage public money " , which cover the approach of all permanent secretary , who be the accounting officer and be therefore responsible for answer for how taxpayer ' money be spend through the accounting process of Government . their accounting officer assessment have to fit in with that regime . we all want to see value for money , but this young body be one - year long and be not yet well establish . the risk of duplication be high , and we need to ensure that it deliver something special and different , and crucially that nowhere in the Office for Value for Money will Ministers be play a role . they will have a key role in deliver on the spending review , but in my experience of over a decade of scrutinise public spending , Ministers can make promise but they be not always well deliver , which can drive up public spending if we be not careful . it be vitally important that this body deliver as set out , so we have ask the Treasury to explain in more precise detail what it expect the Office for Value for Money to deliver , how it will evaluate its success , and what it want to see in the long term from this body chair by David Goldstone . we wish this body well , but the Committee be clear that at the moment there be a number of area of concern about whether it will actually deliver what it be set out to do . I congratulate the hon . Lady not only on her excellent chairing of our Committee and this report , but on secure a slot in the Chamber to tell people about some of the report ' s recommendation . her background as the former Chair of the Public Accounts Committee give huge credibility to the point she be make about the possibility that this new and temporary body will not be able to make its mark in the way the Government hope . one of the area where my constituency have benefit most in value for money from public spending be flood defence . with her long experience , do she agree that protect our community from the impact of climate change be one of the good use of public money ? the hon . Lady , the former Chair of the Treasury Committee — she still serve on the Committee — highlight a pertinent point . the chair of the Office for Value for Money say that it be not just about cash cost and that sometimes it might want to look at programme that will save cost in the long run . however , that be still ill - define , and we need to hear more detail , because that be the holy grail , really . if we can spend to save , that benefit our taxpayer in the long run in cash and , in the case of flooding in particular , it prevent something that be catastrophic for many community . I call the shadow Minister . I join other in thank the hon . Lady and her Committee for produce this report . give the increase pressure on public expenditure since the Budget , the report be timely . the picture it paint be that the Office for Value for money ' s remit be vague , its personnel be limited , time be tight and other established group be already in place , and there be therefore concern that its effort may dissipate . it be clear that it can not do everything . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be here , and I understand that the chair of the Office for Value for Money be clear that there be a few area he will be look at . do the Chair of the Committee agree that it would be of value for those area of investigation to be make clear and public , so that we can more clearly monitor where their impact could be feel ? the hon . Gentleman be say what we say in the report . as a cross - party Select Committee of the House , we say that we need more detail about what will come . the chair of the Office for Value for money be in front of we before Christmas , and we recognise that , give the body have only be establish in October , he might not have all the answer , but we need those with dispatch , if this body be to be disband in October and be to contribute meaningfully to this spending review , although we recognise that would be challenge within the timeframe . if he be to lay down marker for genuine value for money and well spending by Government in the long term , we need precision . we have ask the Treasury for that , and hopefully it will respond to we in quick time — it have to respond to we , whether it want to or not — with answer . we also need to evaluate the effectiveness in term of whether , when the Office for Value for money come up with its study and thing , they will have to be take on by the Treasury . we want to know the mechanism for that and how the Treasury will prove to this House and taxpayer that the body have make a big difference . value for money in public spending be important to my constituent , who work hard for their money . in Scotland , under the Scottish National party , we have high rate of income tax for anyone earn more than £ 29 , 000 . the Government in Edinburgh and the UK Government that we have just finish with have indulge in some shocking waste of money . do my hon . friend agree that it be essential for the Office for Value for Money to set out its suggestion for way of secure value for money for future reference in both London and Edinburgh ? my hon . friend highlight an important point that I have mention already . our constituent give the Government their hard - earn money in the belief and hope that they will spend it wisely . it be important that the Treasury be clear about what it expect to get out of the Office for Value for Money and , as a result of that work , thereby prove to the House , voter and taxpayer that it be get well value than it would have do have the Office for Value for Money not exist . I congratulate the hon . member on her excellent chairing of our Committee and on this excellent report . give that the Office for Value for money have only 20 staff and only 12 in post , whereas the NAO have 1 , 000 , I share her concern about whether it will be able to deliver value for money . what additional step would she like to see take to reassure the Committee that this body can offer value for money ? it be important that we know what the Treasury be expect from this body . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman , who be at our session , will agree that the chair be straightforward with the Committee about the limitation of a body of this nature , which be time - limited and whose few staff be not very senior . I be not in any way denigrate the staff , who no doubt be work hard , but we need to be clear about what we be get from the headline of the Office for Value for Money , an organisation that be small and lean , and about what it add to the work of other body . I list only a few such body , not all of those that be in place across Whitehall . I thank the hon . Lady for her skilful and professional chairing of the Select Committee . I think all Committee member be strain to find the substantive additionality of this body ; I be not sure that we totally convince ourselves of what that be . I very much welcome the fact that the Office for Value for money be a time - limit unit within the Treasury . I also welcome the fact that the Office for Value for money intend study in specific high - risk area of cross - departmental spending . the role of Chief Secretary to the Treasury be not easy , and I be sure that the incumbent would say that it have be make far bad by all his predecessor . do the hon . Lady agree that one area that bear scrutiny be the future of the UK Health Security Agency at Porton down ? in September 2015 , the then Chancellor suggest that it should move to Harlow . in 2020 , additional investment be need at Porton in a national crisis , and there remain endure uncertainty over where that investment should lie . that be a classic example of what this body should be capable of do , which be evaluate where future investment should be in the national interest . I be sure that the hon . Lady would echo my concern that the lack of specificity around those specific area of focus create ambiguity . would she welcome more clarity on what that focus would be over the last six week ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman , who be a fellow member of the Treasury Committee and a former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , for his question . we could have a whole debate about Porton Down and the animal health centre in Weybridge , where there be under - investment by his government and challenge on his side , but we be not here to make party political point . there be area of under - investment , but the lack of specificity and the duplication issue be key concern , as be reflect in our cross - party Treasury Committee report . there be a danger that unless this new body narrow its focus soon , it will not be able to deliver in time to aid the current Chief Secretary to the Treasury in his work of ensure that Departments deliver on the spending review and come up with the proposal that provide the good value for money for the taxpayer . we need that clarity . the Government should welcome this report , because it give they an opportunity to seek great clarity from this body to aid the challenge spending review process . it seem that the Chair of the Treasury Committee have come to the firm conclusion that the Office for Value for money be itself not value for money . in carry out her investigation of this body , which appear to have be set up only for a very limited period , she must have ask it what its term of reference be , why it have be set up only for a limited period and what it be intend to achieve . my guess be that the answer have something to do with the ability to search just about anywhere across the spectrum for any project that cause concern . do she get an answer of that sort ? she must surely have get some sort of answer . I thank the right hon . Gentleman very much , although I should stress that it be not my evaluation but the Committee ' s . we be unanimous in our concern and unanimous in our desire to see taxpayer ' money spend well . we ask question of the Office for Value for money ' s chair . our report reflect the area that he might consider look at , especially area in which there be great risk and area of cross - departmental working . there have be a move over the year to get more cross - departmental or joint departmental bid into the spending review , but that have not really get traction , because we have a terribly siloe culture in Whitehall . that be a big challenge , and the current Government — of my own party , of course — have the mission , which aim to bring thing together . the chair say that he would be look at some of that , but that be quite a lot to do in the timeframe available : the bid and cross - party working area have to be identify , those Departments have to co - operate and the office need the resource to look at where the issue be . with only 20 staff in total — there be only 12 when we have our hearing with the chair , but there be probably more now — that be a stiff ask . it would be helpful for Treasury Ministers to sit down with the Office for Value for Money and push it to come back with the exact area that it propose to look at and that will be most useful to the Government to deliver value for money . I thank the hon . Lady for her statement and her answer . speak as an Ulster Scot , like many of we in this Chamber , it might be an exaggeration to say that every pound be a prisoner , but it be none the less telling of how thrifty we be . ever mindful of that , I hope that the hon . Lady be aware of the issue of agency staff in the health service , whose cost be some 15 % above those for an ordinary nurse ' s pay . I have highlight the matter directly to the Health Department on several occasion in this House . will the hon . Lady and her Committee take it on board and investigate how permanent nurse job could be allocate ? if we want value for money , a 15 % saving must be worth that effort and that commitment . the hon . Gentleman tempt I to stray into the territory of the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) — this be exactly the territory that his Committee examine . we all know that agency staff cost more , whether that be for school or for hospital , and there be an issue with the pipeline of staff . I will stop there , because it be really not a matter for the Treasury Committee , or indeed for the Office for Value for money : as the office be short - lived , it would not have the opportunity to look at something like that , as we hear from its chair . however , I be sure that the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee will be listen and will take the hon . Gentleman ' s point on board . Global Combat Air Programme Defence Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the second Select Committee statement , on behalf of the Defence Committee . Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . they should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . it be a pleasure to present the Defence Committee ' s third report of the Parliament , which illustrate just how hard the Committee be work on the House ' s behalf for the people and their Parliament . my sincere gratitude go to the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for this salient , significant statement on the global combat air programme . the UK be a world leader in combat air . we have develop and build some of the most iconic fighter jet aircraft in history , from the Spitfire and the Meteor to the Tornado and the Typhoon . the global combat air programme offer the opportunity to build on that history as we look to the Royal Air Force of the future . GCAP , an international collaboration with Japan and Italy that aim to deliver a next - generation fighter aircraft by 2035 , will be one of the UK ' s most significant defence programme of the come year . the new aircraft , know as Tempest , will be crucial to counter the threat pose by our adversary in an increasingly volatile world . GCAP promise much : national sovereignty in combat air , strengthen relationship with key ally and a boost to our defence industrial capacity . however , deliver on that promise will not be easy . the Committee ' s report seek to make constructive recommendation that we believe will maximise GCAP ' s chance of meet its ambitious target on time and on budget . before I come to the detail of our finding , I would like to provide some context about our inquiry , which be begin by our predecessor Committee and interrupt by the general election . give the importance of the topic , we feel that it be incumbent on we to complete that important work and bring our finding to the House . I place on the record the Committee ' s appreciation of the work undertake by our predecessor . I also thank the Committee staff , especially Lucy Petrie , who manage the inquiry through to completion , and our specialist adviser Douglas Barrie . I express my gratitude to my fellow Committee member , many of whom be present in the Chamber , who approach the report in the collaborative , cross - party manner for which Select Committees be rightly renowned . I turn to the report ' s conclusion . it be no surprise that a programme as ambitious as GCAP will take up a significant share of the defence budget in the come year . the Ministry of Defence have already spend £ 2 billion on the programme and have allocate a furth £ 12 billion over the come decade . our report call for transparency about cost as GCAP progress so that our Committee and other in the House can hold the Ministry of Defence to account . the need for robust scrutiny of GCAP be underline by the difficulty face previous multilateral defence programme , which have all too often see cost spiral and delay pile up . of particular relevance be the UK ' s experience on the Eurofighter Typhoon , where the Committee hear of the difficulty cause by a lack of empowerment in the programme ' s delivery organisation . we make it clear in our report that those fundamental error can not be repeat on GCAP . if GCAP be to succeed , it must not only learn from the mistake of the past , but anticipate the opportunity and challenge of the future . our report warn that it will need to be sufficiently flexible to adapt to emerge technology include artificial intelligence and the development of uncrewed aircraft . the Committee welcome the UK ' s partnership with Japan and Italy . both our partner have much to offer . Italy and the UK have a share history in combat air , have work together on Tornado and Typhoon . for Japan , involvement in GCAP be a significant step both politically and militarily . we applaud Japan ' s progress in open up export for GCAP , which we believe will be critical to its success . there have be speculation that further partner may join the programme . our report be clear that the potential benefit of expand GCAP must be balance carefully against the risk , and that meet the 2035 target date must remain paramount . our report also highlight how , as with all defence programme , GCAP ' s success will ultimately come down to its workforce . recruitment and retention will be a major challenge for a programme of this scale . the defence industry face fierce competition from other sector for skilled worker . our report emphasise the importance of ensure that the exist Typhoon workforce be transition to GCAP , as well as attract new talent into the sector . I conclude with a reflection on the Committee ' s first visit to Scotland last week . at RAF Lossiemouth we be privileged to have the opportunity to meet the Royal Air Force personnel who protect our sky . our visit be a welcome reminder that , for all the advanced capability promise by GCAP , the UK ' s security ultimately rest in the hand of the brave servicemen and woman who put their life on the line to defend we . on behalf of the Committee , I pay tribute to their dedication and professionalism . they have our sincere gratitude . I commend the report to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Chair for his excellent report and his vigorous statement , remind the House about the great history of the UK in combat air . the opposition strongly support GCAP because we want that great tradition to continue well into the future . however , GCAP be not just about the Tempest platform . it be mean to be a system of system offer technological advance to the RAF in area such as AI and autonomy . give how important that be and how the Committee ' s report focus on transparency , do he agree that we need financial transparency to ensure adequate funding both for the platform that we call Tempest and for those associate technology , because they could bring enhancement to the lethality of the RAF well before 2035 ? I welcome the word of the shadow Defence Secretary , and I thank his shadow minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , for all his work as part of the Defence Committee in the previous Parliament . the shadow Defence Secretary be right that the Ministry of Defence must balance funding pressure in the near and long term , but transparency from the Government about the cost of GCAP be crucial , because Parliament and the public rightly expect value for money , as the Chair of the Treasury Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , so eloquently highlight . I congratulate my hon . friend on an excellent statement . he will know that the Committee , of which I be part in the previous Parliament , be able to visit Japan and Italy , where we see for ourselves the tremendous enthusiasm for the project and how they want to work very closely with we . at the end of the statement , my hon . friend rightly touch on the importance of the workforce , but this project be also crucial to the future defence industrial base , be it not ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on the previous Defence Committee and to bring the report to fruition . he be absolutely right . this project be crucial for our partner in Japan and Italy and for our own defence industrial base . if we do not commit wholeheartedly to GCAP , it will be to our detriment as a nation . Tornado , Typhoon and Tempest have a sort of ring to it . I understand why we be use the term GCAP , but its presentation leave a lot to be desire . one reason be that it be so much more than just the Tempest airframe — autonomous aircraft will fly in conjunction with it . how confident be the Select Committee Chair that all this can be do in a fast - move landscape and in just a 10 - year programme ? I thank the former Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee for his question . I be not well enough verse in acronym to be able to offer something well than Tempest , Tornado or Typhoon . I see the Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) , be in her place ; perhaps she can think of a well acronym than GCAP . it be incredibly important that the programme be meet and that we work with our partner . the Committee have highlight the need to meet the very ambitious programme by 2035 , which will take substantial effort . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . as the shadow Defence Secretary make clear , GCAP be a system of system , but like every programme , it require a pipeline training solution . our report highlight the need for a jet training solution now that production for the Hawk aircraft series have be shutter , after 1 , 000 aircraft be produce and export to 18 country . that be a grave mistake as our GCAP partner be look for a gcap trainer in the US , and we have nothing to offer they . our defence and aerospace industry can not survive on elite technology alone . do my hon . friend agree that we need to look at jet trainer as an essential part of the training system offer as part of GCAP for its pilot , our industry and economic growth ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on the Committee . he have certainly hit the ground run . I fully agree with his view on training . the Committee ' s report find that training for the Hawk aircraft have be an absolute blunder and a huge miss opportunity . we must ensure that we do not miss such opportunity in future , as do so would be to our national detriment . I thank the Chair and the Committee for their industry and for this excellent report . he highlight the size of the GCAP programme and the need for such programme to show great flexibility . do he intend for the Committee to look during this Parliament at the agile procurement of the sort that we be see in Ukraine , and to make recommendation to the Government on that ? yes , we have already be look into that , and the Committee have hold evidence session on Ukraine . many of we be impress by the agility be display in Ukraine . we hope that many of those lesson will be learn by the UK Government . I thank my hon . friend for his statement . there have be some suggestion that Saudi Arabia and other global partner might want to join the programme . what do the Committee think of that ? the exist partnership with Japan and Italy be a strong one , but we must recognise that further partner could benefit the programme . our report warn that include any additional partner will require careful consideration , and it must not jeopardise the 2035 target date , which be paramount . do the hon . Gentleman agree that , with our italian and japanese partner commit to multi - year funding plan for GCAP to give confidence to industry , the UK should show a similar commitment ? I thank the hon . member for his excellent question and for his hard work on the Committee — long may it continue . I wholeheartedly agree , and I hope that minister be listen intently , because multi - year funding settlement can offer we that extra stability to provide a lot more in a short space of time . I congratulate my hon . friend and the whole Committee on a fantastic report . could he expand a little on the export potential of Tempest and how he think the Government might be able to secure that ? secondly , be there an opportunity , through informal collaboration with the other consortium pursue sixth - generation fighter , for general lesson to be learn between the three programme , all of which involve our ally ? we should always be open to collaboration . I hope that the Ministry of Defence be look into that . on my hon . friend ' s first question , I highlight export in my statement and I commend Japan . the real potential for we be not merely to deliver on these next generation jet but to export , because they contribute so much to the Exchequer for the provision of public service in our country . I thank the Chair of the Defence Committee for his statement . I declare an interest as a member of the armed force parliamentary scheme . in March 2024 the RAF publish its autonomous collaborative platform strategy . be the Chair content with the assurance that there be sufficient flexibility build into GCAP to allow it to operate alongside a range of uncrewed solution ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . the Committee have look at autonomous aircraft . we hope we will be able to realise the full benefit , although only time will tell just how much of a benefit we realise . I commend the Chair and the Defence Committee for turn their scrutinise eye to the global combat air programme . the Chair talk about the benefit and risk of new partner , and explain that we need to weigh the benefit against the risk . in previous multilateral fighter jet programme , there have be an overestimation of just how much of the product could be export . last November , Reuters say that Saudi Arabia could be a potential fourth partner on the programme . could the Chair expand on some of the benefit and risk of add Saudi Arabia to the programme , as it relate to export ? the hon . Gentleman be a member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , and indeed a former defence spokesman for the Liberal Democrats . have extra partner on board can be very beneficial , as it can share the cost burden and enhance our export possibility . however , as the Committee rightly note , have additional partner will require careful consideration . under no circumstance should we allow that to jeopardise the 2035 target date , because that could have serious cost implication for the Exchequer . I thank the Chair of the Defence Committee for his statement today . in the statement , he refer to the demand for skilled worker . on Friday , I have the opportunity to meet Unite and GMB in relation to the airspace sector in Northern Ireland , where the Chair will be aware a skilled workforce already exist . what discussion be be hold with this sector in Northern Ireland to transfer the global combat air programme skill through both small and large operation and contract ? as always , the hon . Gentleman ask an excellent question . have a robust defence industrial base be vital , as be have a skilled workforce . as I mention , our report call for a holistic approach to recruitment and retention . the Committee have have various meeting with union representative , and we feel it be very important to retain our exist Typhoon workforce , wherever that may be in the UK . I be sure my right hon . friend the Minister will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about Northern Ireland . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will recall that on Thursday afternoon I lead a Backbench Business debate on the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , during which lot of critical comment be make about the MHRA . I specifically make reference to the minute take from meeting of the Commission on Human Medicines for the vaccine benefit risk expert working group . on Saturday , follow the debate , the MHRA remove the minute from its website . I should be grateful for your guidance and advice as to what can be do to ensure that those minute be put back on the website immediately , and without alteration . surely public body should not be use debate in this Chamber as an excuse to remove information that be in the public interest . I thank the right hon . Lady for give I advance notice of her point of order . she will appreciate that that be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put a point on the record , and those on the Front Bench will have hear it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 17 January the world lose possibly Scotland ' s great ever footballer : Denis Law , who be bear in 1940 in Printfield , in my constituency . the young of seven child , he do not own a pair of shoe until he be 12 year old — he go barefoot . he play for Huddersfield and Manchester City , but he be know for his time at Manchester United , where he be know as the Lawman and the King . the only scottish player to have ever win the Ballon d ' or , Denis Law score in our 1967 victory over England , crown Scotland the unofficial champion of the world . in more recent year , he create the Denis Law Legacy Trust , which have do an amazing amount for sport in Aberdeen . I wonder whether the House and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , would join I in send condolence to Denis Law ' s family and friend on his sad passing . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order . that be not a matter for the Chair , but she have most definitely put her remark on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . today the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland take the decision not to deploy the Stormont brake , despite it be support by every Unionist Member in the Northern Ireland Assembly . this Chamber be the only place where the Secretary of State can be challenge and directly question by elect representative . however , rather than make a statement to this House , he decide to give it to the medium . can you advise I on the option available to get the Secretary of State to make a statement on his decision in this place , where he can be question ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . I have have no indication that the Secretary of State intend to come to the House to make a statement , but I be sure that the Table Office will be able to advise the hon . gentleman on how to pursue the matter far . obesity : food and Diet I beg to move , that this House have consider the impact of food and diet on obesity . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate parliamentary time to this crucial issue . we be actually go to have this debate before Christmas , but we decide that before Christmas be not a good time to discuss obesity ; we be then go to have it last week , but it be postpone . I be really grateful to colleague across the House for support the debate . our country have an obesity crisis that be threaten the health and wellbeing of the whole nation . it be a cross - party issue : since 1990 , rate of obesity have double . two third of all adult in the UK be carry excess weight , and a quarter of adult be classify as obese . the figure be even more worrying in child : 10 % of child age four , when they enter school , be obese ; that figure rise to 22 % — nearly one in four — in year 6 . one problem with obesity be that , as many of we know , once someone become overweight , it be difficult to shift . that be why the most important age group to concentrate on be young people . obesity be now the single most important modifiable risk factor for the prevention of disease , and I will briefly go through its effect — as a doctor , I can not resist . around 4 million people in this country have type 2 diabete , which be five time more likely in obesity . type 2 diabete almost double a person ' s mortality rate , with 22 , 000 people with diabete die early every year . ischaemic heart disease , the lead cause of death in the UK , be much more common in obesity , as be hypertension and osteoarthritis , which cause joint pain and reduce mobility . something that a lot of people do not know be that 13 cancer be directly attributable to obesity — it be actually also the second commonest cause of cancer . as a gp , there be other thing I see quite regularly , such as reflux , varicose vein , infertility and even thrombosis , all of which diminish quality of life . the commonest cause of liver disease be now obesity . I will not go into the cost too much but , as we can imagine , obesity cost the country an absolute fortune : on average , four extra sick day a year ; and , take into account the cost to the NHS and so on , an estimate £ 98 billion a year , or 4 % of gdp . the cost to the NHS be £ 19 billion a year . what be the cause of obesity ? from the evidence , it be clear that the main cause of obesity be diet — it be what we eat . the food system in this country be fundamentally break . I welcome the statement from the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) about sustainable food production : nutritious food grow while restore nature , and farm with good food production at its core , reward properly . there be a complicated relationship in food production , whereby farm mostly exist on Government subsidy with very small profit margin and then the supermarket make profit out of what they sell . we need to look into that complicated relationship . one problem be that unhealthy and ultra - process food — UPFs — that be high in fat , salt and sugar be often the easy , cheap and most convenient . crucially , they make the most profit for the food industry . the other problem with these type of food be that they be addictive — salty , fatty food be addictive . another problem , reveal by the Food Foundation , be that healthy food , calorie for calorie , be twice as expensive as less healthy food . so there be a lot of issue there to unpick . inequality and deprivation be very , very strong cause of obesity , with less well - off people be twice as likely to be overweight . therefore , one strategy have to be to increase the living wage , reduce child poverty , improve health and social service , and invest in education — all of which the Government be do . on pregnancy , obesity actually begin in the womb — it do not even begin when we be bear . in one fascinating experiment , one group of pregnant woman be feed a lot of carrot and another group do not have any carrot . the child of the woman who eat carrot love carrot , so a memory be make in utero . it be therefore really important that pregnant woman have a very healthy diet , as this be a risk factor for obesity in young people . another be formula feed . breastfeed protect against obesity , but formula feed do not . follow - on feed , hungry baby feed , be just normal milk pack full of calorie , so they tend to increase obesity . that be perhaps something we need to discuss , too . I be the chair of the eat disorder all - party parliamentary group . to make any progress , we have to understand that eat disorder be highly stigmatise . many people with obesity also have an eat disorder . to make real progress , be not the first thing to take the stigma away from obesity and get to the people who really want to improve their life ? I absolutely agree with that . we must treat people in a fair and compassionate way . we must point that out to they , as medical professional , and help they to get well . I agree with the hon . Lady about stigma . on obesity strategy , since 1990 , we have have 700 separate policy to tackle obesity , yet it have double . clearly , we be do something wrong . have look at the evidence , it be clear that voluntary target do not work . voluntary target for the food industry and rely on individual agency — give we choice in what we eat — can not reduce obesity . the food industry , of course , have a vested interest in make money . while education and exercise be really good , there be not much evidence to suggest that they reduce obesity . it be all about food . there have be a lot of research . Nesta , the Obesity Health Alliance and the House of Lords Food , Diet and Obesity Committee have do multiple report on obesity , and it be clear that we can halve it . all we need to do be reduce everyone ' s calorie intake by 200 calorie a day . that be the difference between McDonald ' s large fry and standard fry — other fry be available — so it be not a massive thing , but we all have to do it . as always with public health , small drop in what we take can have a massive effect on the population . do my hon . friend agree that it be important , when there be such a strong correlation between child poverty and child obesity , that we tackle not only the food system lead to poor health outcome , but the price of food ? we must see those two challenge in lockstep and work to address both the quality of food and the cost . absolutely . one of the main pitfall we must avoid be that there be no point in make cheap food more expensive . that will make people poor . we need to be much more creative than that . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate and for allow I to intervene . I commend the Government ' s new policy of free breakfast club for all primary school child , but do he agree that we should not miss the opportunity to ensure that that meal be wholesome and nutritious so that all our kid can get off to the good possible start ? yes , I could not agree more . as I say in the debate on education , we should be careful about the food industry sponsor school breakfast . as I point out , there be no such thing as a free breakfast . company often make unhealthy and addictive food and get young people addict to it , so we must be cautious . I want a recipe to solve this crisis and what I be suggest come from evidence from Nesta and the House of Lords Select Committee . it should be mandatory that all store report on the food healthiness of their sale . we need a fully independent Food Standards Agency . we should have a ban on advertising junk food , as have already be propose , and there should be a watershed for child — that be incredibly important . as be plan in Scotland and Wales , there should be a ban on price promotion , particularly for unhealthy food , ultra - process food and takeaway . we also need to put a lot more resource into breastfeed and diet in pregnancy — remember the carrot — and we must regulate formula feed . one measure , which have work with the drink industry in reduce sugar , be a reformulation tax on food that be high in sugar and salt . supermarket and food company would reformulate their food to avoid the tax , thereby make they healthy . my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) mention breakfast club . there be a lot of evidence that free school meal and breakfast club reduce obesity . where free school meal have be introduce in London , childhood obesity have be reduce by 11 % . that be because the food be healthy and a healthy hot meal be really important , rather than high - calorie snack , which be what a lot of pack lunch consist of . if we can not have free school meal , because of financial problem , we should have auto - enrolment so that child who should be on free school meal actually get enrol . that would benefit school , too . we must have mandatory front - of - packet labelling . I have never meet a parent who do not want to buy healthy food for their child . the trouble be that they pick up a packet of cereal and it say , " high in iron and fill with vitamin , " and think it must be healthy . nothing could be far from the truth , so we must have accurate labelling . healthy school food should be source locally . in Stroud , I have be work closely with local primary school to encourage they to eat fresh , locally grow , highly nutritious food . I think the Government ' s target be to procure at least 50 % of food in school from local source . then there be the famous hospital food . I be recently in hospital with a relative , and I can tell the House that hospital food be not healthy . we have white - bread sandwich and some crisp — that be our healthy snack . we must introduce healthy food in hospital . takeaway be another big barrier to healthy eating — there be a massive explosion in their use during the covid pandemic — and we need to include they in any regulation . as I have say , in Scotland and Wales a ban on takeaway price promotion have be propose . on average , those in deprive area order more takeaway than those in non - deprive area . we certainly must not let takeaway outlet open near school — that be a planning must . I would also caution against the treatment of the obesity crisis with injection of drug such as Ozempic , which could well turn out to be dangerous . accord to today ' s press , there be clear evidence of that . apparently , 400 people across the United Kingdom who take Ozempic experience poor health as a result . it be not for everyone , and the soon that people know that , the well . the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention remind I of the GP I take over from — an old chap ; very wise — who say , " always be a few year out of date , Simon , because we never know what these new drug be go to cause . " I think that be good advice — not that I be suggest that doctor be out of date , of course . be we propose the creation of a nanny state ? that be the great fear of many people when they be confront by control of this kind , but let we look at what happen with the ban on smoke inside pub . People — particularly in Ireland , but also in England — be say , " this be crazy ; it be never go to work " , but it work fantastically well . we need to be aware of the vested interest of food company , and we need to take radical step . I thank my Gloucestershire neighbour for give way . he mention the nanny state . as a Liberal , I believe in freedom , but there be two side to it : freedom from and freedom to . should not freedom from some of those represent the big , powerful vested interest in the food company , who be not interested in our health , be at the centre of this debate ? I entirely agree . I think that this Parliament could do to obesity what the Government who be in power between 1997 and 2010 do to smoking : we could drastically reduce it . for the sake of our child and our old adult , I urge everyone to accept that we need to act now , and we need to act radically . I congratulate the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure this important debate . there be a lot in his speech with which I agree , and a lot with which I disagree . I do not want to explore the subject of childhood obesity , although I think that many of his point about it be quite important ; I want to focus on adult obesity . there be a great many new member in the Chamber who do not know who I be , so they will not have see I when I be enormously fat , before I be down to the size I be now . I have struggle with my weight throughout my life , but I have control it for several year . back in 2019 I manage to lose 4 stone through smoking . cigarette provide a way for I to diet and keep the weight off . I give up smoking in May 2022 — we do not need to have a debate about smoking and what it do to people — and put on a considerable amount of weight . there be always a lot of stigma surround weight . everything about weight be stigmatise , whether we be too thin or too fat or dieting — and , by the way , everyone have advice for we when we be diet . it do not matter what be work ; they will say , " what you need to do be this . " I will come on to the weight loss regime that I be on at the moment , but they will say , for instance , " you shouldn ' t be give up drinking , because you will lose your social life . " well , go to the small Yorkshire village where I live and have several pint over a few hour mean have a lot of empty calorie — thousand of they — so that be exactly what someone who be try to lose weight should do ; but people always give that advice . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention 400 incidence , but what that statistic do not say about the damage that the jabs , as we call they , can do be that half a million people be have they . we be in danger of get into the same argument that some of the nutter who talk about the covid jab have get themselves into — that it be deadly and we be poison everyone ; and this , that and the other . it be administer to million of people , and drug will always have side effect . that be something we must remember . the contraceptive pill , use by million of people , have side effect . drug do have side effect , but that be not a reason to rule they out . I want to expand on this stigma about the jabs . as I say at the outset , I be focus today on adult obesity , and as I also say , the hon . member for Stroud make some important point about childhood obesity and the link with food , but much of what he say be base on the idea that people have three meal a day and they be eat too much . that have not be my experience . many member , especially new member , will learn how exhausting this job become . at some point in their career , they will ask themselves , " how do I carry on ? " and they will turn to sugar to get they through the rest of the day . I see plenty of member nod . they will have chocolate bar , because that be the boost we need and that be where we end up . I have do that . I have what some might describe as an addictive personality : when I cut something out , I replace it with something else . when I cut out cigarette , I replace they with food . it have be a difficult journey . I try to eat healthily and I try to do thing with my weight , but I reach a point at which I could not do it . in the middle of September , I start take Wegovy , and since then I have lose over 5 stone . I have go from a body mass index of 42 to one of 30 , although there be still a couple of stone that I want to lose . but — and this be the big " but " — people have to work with it . these be not miracle drug . the big mistake that the press make in this regard be refer to " fat - dissolve drug " . there be no such thing as a fat - dissolve drug ; that be blatant nonsense . for I , this drug take away the craving . it have enable I to do the intermittent fasting , have a protein - base meal at 1 pm , a banana at 5 pm and a small meal in the evening with a tiny bit of carbohydrate , and I do not eat after 9 pm . that be how I have drop the weight . I cut out drink for the first eight week , although I do drink over Christmas , and I cut out sugar for 12 week . I want to build on something that the hon . member for Stroud say about sugar be a drug . oh boy , yes , it be a drug . I feel horrific for the first three week of cut out sugar . have have a little bit of sugar over Christmas , I think , " it be Christmas ; you have to manage the psychology of this . " well , the first time I have one mince pie , boy , do I know about it ! I have to have some grape later to try to bring about the slow sugar release . there be no doubt that high sugar and salt level be addictive , but I have a personality that make I do that . a very interesting point be make on Radio 4 last week . Emma Barnett be interview someone about this drug — I miss who it be . she say , " but isn ' t there the question of morality when people use drug to reduce their weight ? " this be where I think there be a fundamental misunderstanding of obesity in adult and the issue of weight . what be now emerge be a link , a thread that run through several aspect of someone ' s health , not least relate to fatigue , mental health or personality , and what be be discover be that the drug have a positive effect in many of those area . we need to remove the stigma from talk about be on drug such as Ozempic , Wegovy and Mounjaro . they be certainly help I , and I know of many friend and many colleague in the House who be use they , because they do take away that craving . however , it still come down to willpower . I stand before Members today , and I feel horrific . I have consume less than 600 calorie so far today and it be now 7 . 10 pm . I do not feel great , but it be work . I be engage in a process in which I be try to lose the weight in the first six month , and in the next six month I will go back to the normal number of calorie , do the exercise and build up my fitness . this be a programme and a regime , and it be work for I . however , I must make the point that if people be not willing to work with these drug , they will not have the effect . there must be a " brake " in their promotion , because people who think they can just inject themselves at home and lose weight be wrong . it be so easy to cheat . why do I not feel too great at the moment ? there be not enough calorie in I . what would give I a boost straight away ? some chocolate , or anything like that . when I cut out sugar , I cut out crisp , cake , biscuit and various other thing , include alcohol for a while . I be not go teetotal for the rest of my life , and I be not cut out sugar for the rest of my life . People have to find a balance , but it be easy to cheat and they have to want to lose weight . there be no correlation here , but I think there be an interesting piece of work to be do — I will explain why I be say this in a moment — on the fact that there have be a huge reduction in smoking in the 21st century and a big rise in obesity . I certainly use cigarette to help keep my weight down , and I know that many other people do too . if someone feel hungry , they can have a cigarette . I be delighted that I give up smoking ; it take I most of my life to do so . I smoke for most of my adult life , and I have drink a lot for most of my adult life . I be 49 year old , and I be in my twenty in the 1990 . there be a culture in the ' 90 that carry on through . why do we push forward with get people off smoking ? we do it because of the absolutely obvious and well - prove health consequence of smoking , such as thrombosis , heart attack and high blood pressure . since I have lose 5 stone , my blood pressure have come down by 30 millibar ; it be now textbook blood pressure . the hon . member for Stroud be absolutely right . I have pain in my joint and foot , and I would sweat , but I would not give in to it . when my foot hurt , I would not give in to it , because I think , " if I give in to it , I ' m just go to put on even more weight . " I would not stop , because I have always be fairly active and have keep go . I make these point because I recently hear a report that if weight - loss jabs be put out on NHS prescription , it would bankrupt the NHS . I think that be absolute nonsense , because we know just how preventive this sort of action be . that be why we get people to give up smoking . we make a lot of tax from the sale of cigarette , but it cost the NHS billion of pound . we know that a lot of the condition that cigarette cause be equally cause by obesity , along with many other thing . again , the use of weight - loss jab could prevent the NHS from spend much more money later on diabetes care , orthopaedic care and mental health care . we know that people find be inactive depressing , quite frankly , and that their mental health take a decline when they become inactive . we have to separate the issue of childhood obesity and adult obesity , which be two very different thing . for those of we who end up starve of sleep , and those who end up never know when they will have a proper meal or where they will get it from , it be easy to fall into the trap . I have often find that people who have never have a problem with their weight be full of all the answer for those who do struggle with their weight , who may well tell other what they be do and then be tell , " no , what you want to be do be this . " it be nonsense . the use of weight - loss jabs offer the NHS a real advantage , but we have to reduce the stigma and it be right that we ask whether it be moral to use drug to reduce people ' s wight . a lot of people do not have a choice about their weight , and they be now discover that a small dose of hormonal drug help they to control their desire to eat . the long - term effect of obesity on the country ' s health , and on the pressure on the NHS , will be reduce . when I become 7 stone light than I be back in September , there be no doubt that my health situation will have a far well outlook than it do , and that be the conversation we should be have when it come to adult . there have be enough comment on whether somebody be stick thin or really fat , and enough advice about what people should do to lose weight . we now have some answer that will actually make a difference , and we have to say , " these be the right thing to do , " as we do with so many other drug that help people get through their life . we do not comment on people use nicotine patch or nicotine gum , yet we do talk about people who be try to do thing to help they lose weight . rise — order . as member can see from the annunciator , the debate on financial education have be postpone , so the current debate can go on until 10 pm . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this debate . some 21 . 7 % of five - year - old child start school in Bolton be classify as overweight or obese , and the figure rise to 37 . 8 % by the time they leave primary school . across the country , child in the poor area be twice as likely to be live with obesity as those in the rich area . when we walk around our constituency , we can see why . we all know that the poor part of the area we represent be invariably overwhelmed with fast food outlet sell cheap junk food with minimal nutritional value . they be plaster with advert for food that harm people ' s health . they be often devoid of safe green space for exercise and of route to travel safely to work . that be the impact of the place where people live . when we add the price and convenience of unhealthy food and the relentless and predatory marketing that pressure people into eat more junk food , we can see why the UK now have the third high obesity rate in Europe . the burden of this preventable illness be fall on our poor citizen . it can not continue . as the Minister will be aware , it be in the poor community that we see the bad case of heart attack , stroke , type 2 diabete , fatty liver disease and other preventable disease . there will always be those who claim that people just need to make well choice . I would ask they , " be our poor citizen make choice that be twice as bad ? be they less informed ? do they care less about their child ' s health ? " of course not . they face structural barrier that rich people do not . we must break down the barrier . many of the intervention recommend in the House of Lords report could make a real difference , include improve baby food , increase access to Healthy Start voucher and building on the success of the soft drink industry levy . all those intervention be worth make , but I will talk specifically about marketing . it be very welcome that the Government have commit to deliver regulation on tv and online advertising in October this year and to end the sale of high - caffeine energy drink to child . I note that the latter policy be one of the most popular idea in our manifesto , because people be worried about what their child be eat and drink and they want the Government to do something about it . both policy should have come into effect under the last government , but unfortunately they do not . I urge Ministers not to make the mistake of listen to the same lobbying that take place last time and prevent the regulation from come in . the 2018 regulation on tv and online advertising be modest and will not come into effect until the end of this year . that be not good enough . we must go far and fast to deliver the change that we need to really turn the tide . the House of Lords Food , Diet and Obesity Committee recommend go far and end the advertising of food high in fat , salt and sugar , on all format , by the end of this Parliament . there be a clear blueprint for this . tobacco advertising on tv be end in the mid - 1990 , but the Blair Government realise that more action be need and introduce the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Act 2002 . that legislation could almost be copy verbatim to protect child from predatory advertising or product that harm their health . a particular focus should be on outdoor advertising . four out of five billboard advert in this country be in the poor area , and they be overwhelmingly for unhealthy product . it be overtly prey on our citizen , and we have the power to stop it . eleven metro Mayors , include my own Mayor in Greater Manchester , Andy Burnham , have step up to end such advert on the outdoor space that they control , but they can only do so much . we need the Government to extend the regulation to cover privately hold outdoor advertising , to ensure that child in my constituency and across the country be protect from these advert . obesity and poor diet constitute the lead preventable health crisis of our time , one that be drive horrific and preventable harm to people ' s health and be drive inequality in health outcome . our poor citizen be pay the price for these harmful food with their health . the House of Lords inquiry echo the recommendation of many other expert , include the Henry Dimbleby national food strategy , multiple lead think - tank , such as the Health Foundation and the Institute for Public Policy Research , and the 60 lead health charity and medical royal college represent by the Obesity Health Alliance . all the expert agree on the action that need to be take . the Minister have a blueprint for what need to be do . I implore he to implement it . I congratulate the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure this debate . I thank he for raise interesting aspect of which I be not aware , such as the 13 cancer . I also thank the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) for share his personal journey with we in this Chamber . it be a worthwhile contribution to this debate . in 2023 , nearly 32 % of child in year 6 in West Berkshire be classify as overweight , an increase of 3 % on the year before . this be not an isolated trend : obesity rate among child and adult be rise across the country . the doubling of obesity rate in the UK over the past 30 year have be drive by multiple factor , of which change in diet be one of the most significant . in that time , the UK ' s food environment have also undergo a dramatic shift . today , 25 % of all food outlet be fast food establishment offer meal that be high in sugar and fat but more affordable than healthy alternative . their affordability make they increasingly attractive , particularly to those who be under financial pressure . with the rise cost of living , especially with energy bill , many household be leave with less disposable income , and food budget be one of the first area in which people try to cut cost . over the past three year , the price of healthy food have increase by £ 1 . 76 per 1 , 000 kilocalorie , compare with just 76p for less healthy option . the impact of these change diet be have severe consequence on people ' s health and be place immense pressure on the NHS . obesity increase the risk of develop various disease , include certain cancer such as colon cancer . it raise by more than two and a half time the likelihood of high blood pressure , which greatly increase the risk of heart disease . accord to Frontier Economics , obesity cost the NHS £ 35 billion every year . that be simply unacceptable . the UK should be among the healthy country in the world . we have a rich tradition of grassroots sport , high - quality food production and world - lead medical research , yet our statistic tell a different story . the UK currently have the third high rate of overweight or obese individual in Europe . the Government must take decisive action to address this grow crisis . the Liberal Democrats have call for a reversal of the Conservatives ' cut to the public health grant that enable local authority to deliver the essential preventive service and community programme that combat obesity and promote healthy diet . we also urge the Government to expand the national food strategy , not only to address food security , but to tackle rise food price , end food poverty and improve public health and nutrition . it be vital that we halt this alarming trend of rise obesity . People deserve the opportunity to live healthy , long life . reduce obesity will also have a transformative impact on the NHS , ease the immense pressure that it be face . I implore the Government to take bold action and urgent step to ensure that healthy food option be more accessible and to foster a culture of healthy activity across our nation . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure this hugely important debate . when I be write my maiden speech back in July , I do some research into my predecessor , as one do . it be fascinating to see that it have be nearly 120 year since the voter of Chelsea elect a non - Conservative MP . he be Mr Emslie John Horniman , lately of the Horniman museum . his father , Frederick Horniman , be an MP under Queen Victoria . I be think that Mr Horniman senior would find a lot of similarity between his time as an MP during the victorian era and the job today . the main building be largely the same , although it be possibly even cold in those day ; some of the rule and procedure be the same ; and he would probably even find some familiar face among colleague in both Houses . thankfully , one of the big difference between Mr Horniman senior ' s time and today would be the food . that be not just because the Victorians would not be enjoy the famous parliamentary jerk chicken , but because when it come to the food that people eat in victorian time , the story be one of adulteration and contamination . describe the victorian history of adulteration and contamination of food , the US professor of history Anthony Wohl say : " the list of poisonous additive read like the stock list of some mad and malevolent chemist " . if we have enjoy a glass of beer here with Gladstone or Disraeli , we might also have be drink strychnine and hallucinogen . with wine , we could have imbibe sulphate of copper . the mustard with our lunch would probably have come with add lead chromate . our Gloucester cheese afterwards might well have owe its rosy hue to red lead . it be no wonder that indigestion cure in victorian time be so popular . thank goodness thing be so different today . thank goodness we have food standard . thank goodness we do not allow people to eat thing that make they so ill — except that we do . day in , day out , food manufacturer add substance to food that , on the scale at which they be eat today , quite legally damage people ' s health . supermarket promote they and sell they . as a result , obesity , type 2 diabete and the many other medical problem to which my hon . friend the Member for Stroud refer have become huge issue in this day and age . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman — Order . when the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) take an intervention , he must be seat . the hon . Gentleman be make a thought - provoke observation , but do he acknowledge that in time past , the proportion of income that any individual , from whichever class , spend on food be considerably high than it be today ? if we be to get to the heart of the matter , we have to address the wide challenge of our society ' s expectation of how much money we should spend on food . do he not agree that we be addicted to cheap food ? the right hon . Member make an excellent point that I will come to in a moment . the additive that cause so much harm today have simple name : sugar , salt and fat . in moderation , all of those be fine , but the problem be that they be be shove into our food willy - nilly in an effort to preserve it and — on the right hon . member ' s point — to make it cheap , alongside make it more addictive by design . as a result , we have what the House of Lords Food , Diet and Obesity Committee ' s report rightly describe as a public health emergency . we now have one of the high rate of obesity among high - income nation . only tobacco shorten british live more than poor diet . the hon . Gentleman be make some very important point . I would add that adult obesity be not necessarily down to the kind of food that he have outline . when people be tired or feel depressed , just the satiation of eat — even if it be healthy and they be eat more than they should — have the same effect . I use to have cigarette , which do that , and sometimes people drink to do it , but it could also be do with healthy food . it be about quantity that can not always be control , and there be a big link . I totally agree with what the hon . Gentleman be say about these addictive substance , but they be not the only part of the puzzle . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . I be not attempt to put together the whole puzzle , but additive be an extremely important part of the puzzle . we do ourselves a disservice if we pretend that sugar , salt and fat — eat in the quantity they be today — and the ready food that can be buy so cheaply be not poisonous , and not huge problem that we need to address . I be not wild about the term " obese " because of the negative , pejorative connotation that can make people feel awful about themselves , as have be say , but it be the good term we have at the moment . over a fifth of child in this country — 22 . 1 % — be obese . the figure be even high in my constituency , which contain some of the country ' s rich people , as well as many resident live in poverty . in the London borough of Kensington and Chelsea , 23 . 4 % of reception pupil , age four to five , be obese . in the borough of Hammersmith and Fulham , 22 . 4 % of reception pupil be classify as obese . this be a problem everywhere , not just in the poor part of the country . it be therefore hugely good news that the Government have identify a shift from ill health to prevention as one of the three major objective of their health mission . it be even well news that a cross - Government national food strategy be be develop . what would I like to see in that national food strategy ? what should be do ? I would like we to start by realise that it be time to stop place excessive emphasis on individual responsibility . that may be hard to swallow for some people , but the Lords report make it clear that 30 year of policy that rely solely on personal choice , rather than tackle the underlie driver of unhealthy diet , have fail to shift the dial . sadly , under successive government , these policy have contribute to widen health inequality . as my hon . friend the Member for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) note , the Lords report rightly praise the last Government ' s sugar tax on soft drink . officially call the soft drink industry levy , it be a significant public health success — people be consume less sugar . while obesity remain an overall problem , it have fall to an extent , particularly among girl age 10 and 11 in the most deprive area . few child be have to go to hospital to have their decay tooth pull out . that bring I to the lack of dentist after 14 year of Conservative Government , but I will not go there now . the sugar tax have save million , possibly billion , of pound in healthcare cost , as well as a lot of misery . it be a pretty good example to follow , so I support the call by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud for the levy to be extend to more food product and for similar action to be take on salt and fat . I be glad that the Government be deliver on their manifesto pledge to give child the good and healthiest start in life by ban the targeting of junk food at child . just as advertising restriction contribute to a decline in the number of smoker , I hope that restrict the advertising of unhealthy food will contribute to a decline in childhood obesity . I also agree that label food well , to distinguish between healthy and less healthy product , be essential . it already work , as allergy sufferer be benefit from Natasha ' s law , which require food business to fully label their ingredient . however , target unhealthy food be not enough . even unhealthy food be well than no food , for those who can not afford healthy ingredient , for those who can not find healthy ingredient or for those who do not know how to cook they . I be not argue that we should make crap food so expensive that people be force to go elsewhere to buy even more expensive alternative . as the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) say , it be of fundamental importance that healthy food should be affordable to everyone and widely available wherever they live . at the moment , it be far from either . it be no good badger people to eat five piece of fruit and veg a day if they can not afford to do so or if it be not available locally — that be just patronising . I be surprised that no one have mention the rise of food bank . do my hon . friend share my view that , although well - mean people give produce to food bank , it be often tin product or ready meal that people need to cook at home , which may be an inadvertent driver of this issue ? that be a very good point . the poverty in this country now and the cost of energy be cause people in my constituency to go to food bank and ask for food that they do not have to cook . we be offer people food that might not always be of the good quality , and food bank tell I that a lot of healthy , fresh fruit and veg go to waste because people be either worried about the cost of energy or simply do not know how to cook . these be addressable problem ; these be thing that we can do something about if we want to do so . I strongly back the House of Lords report ' s recommendation that the revenue from a salt and sugar reformulation tax should be use to make healthy food cheap , particularly for those on low income . I would like some of the revenue to go to organisation such as Alexandra Rose , a charity operate in my constituency . it make healthy food affordable and accessible to family on low income by hand out voucher so that pregnant woman and the family of child under five can buy fresh fruit and veg at local market or independent shop . in the heart of Fulham , 376 family and 587 child have enjoy £ 85 , 200 - worth of fresh fruit and veg from our wonderful North end Road market , which have operate since late victorian time . Alexandra Rose tell I that , six month after start the project , 64 % of child be meet their five - a - day target , compare with just 7 % when it begin . as the Government develop their food strategy , I encourage they to consider support such charity to extend their work through national action . another issue be the accessibility of food , and I do not think this point be address enough . many part of this country be healthy food desert . in his annual report , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , say that " family in inner - city area be less likely to have access to healthy , affordable food option " and as a result they will have short and unhealthier life . we have to ensure that good food be available at an affordable price . I hope the food strategy will look at that , as well as at teach basic cookery in school — that be another important point . change will take time , but it can be do . it just need the political will . I hope we will reach a position where , if Mr Horniman could come back to see we , he would be delighted . after all , we must remember that he take immense pride in the tea his family produce ; it be one of the very few to be declare free of chemical and safe to drink in the 1850 . let we hope we can say the same about our food in the future . I be grateful to the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this debate on the important subject of the impact of food and diet on obesity . over the past 30 year , as have be note , obesity have be the subject of over 700 food - relate health policy in England . yet , while successive government have recognise the immense challenge of obesity and have seek to tackle it through various strategy , scheme and mandate , obesity rate have remain excessively high . although , over the past five year we have see adult obesity rate stabilise and the number of child who be overweight or obese fall to the low level since 2000 , there be so much more work to do to address this issue , which be have an alarming impact on people ' s health . in the UK today , more than one in 20 cancer case be link to excess weight , and obesity be predict to overtake smoking as the lead preventable cause of cancer in woman by 2043 . it be estimate that , by 2035 , the cost of treat type 2 diabete will exceed that of treat all cancer today . alongside this health crisis come a phenomenal financial cost . the NHS currently spend £ 6 . 5 billion a year on obesity - relate illness . indeed , the independent national food strategy cite an even large figure of £ 18 billion , with diabete care alone already account for nearly 10 % of the NHS budget . we must act now to address this issue . we do not have another 30 year to get this right ; nor can we afford another 700 policy . we can not just look for easy win on this subject . rather , we should look for a meaningful , transformative policy shift and not fall foul of previous mistake . in the past , approach by government have not always be join up in understand the whole food cycle , from supplier to shop shelf . political and economic decision have contribute to that . if we be serious about reform the food system , the Government will have to implement a strategy that engage producer of all size , from small business to large corporation , across the supply chain , to give consumer a choice when they make their weekly shop . although it may seem in some respect that we now have access to more food option and choice than ever before , for many people those choice be often limit by cost . too often the cost of healthy option be increase while the cost of ultra - process food decrease . in the UK , the majority of our diet be now make up of ultra - process food . grow evidence link upf and adverse health outcome , so it be vital that more research be do to ensure we be make informed policy decision . we need to ensure that it be not just the large food manufacturer that be dominate the discussion and lead the market , and that we be create opportunity and space for small , innovative food producer to contribute to the debate and help to provide solution to some of the challenge we face . part of the solution mean work with our farmer , who already produce some of fresh , healthy food to high animal welfare standard of anywhere in the world . the produce of the farmer in my constituency be second to none : cheshire beef and dairy product be some of the most nutritious , natural and tasty on the market . we need to ensure our farmer and food producer be part of the solution , and that we strive to connect people to where our food come from . just as we need a join - up approach across the supply chain , we need a join - up approach across Government . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for Health and Social Care can publish a strong food strategy , but it will need involvement from the Treasury to ensure the path from farm to fork or supplier to shelf be support . I have talk about choice and the impact of food price for family who be try their good to make healthy choice , but alongside cost limitation be the limitation on people ' s time . my husband and I both work full time and , as a mum , I know from experience that after a long day at work , all too often the easy option be to pick up some food on the way home that be convenient but perhaps not that healthy for we and our family . I know there be thousand of hard - work parent across Chester South and Eddisbury — indeed , the country — who will know what I be talk about . we as legislator , and supermarket as the gateway where people buy their food , can take step to improve choice for consumer , both financially and in relation to convenience , that will help we to become a healthy nation . for instance , supermarket could have a section with ingredient next to healthy recipe , shorten the time the consumer would need to be in the shop and encourage they to try new and nutritious meal . we can and must do more to address this issue . we must connect people with where their food come from , have a frank conversation about the impact of ultra - process food and deliver research to ensure we have evidence to make meaningful change . we need to support small business , work with they as they develop innovative way to produce and market their product , and ensure they have a voice at the table , alongside the large supplier and supermarket . we need to understand the challenge that family face with the cost and time constraint of busy family life , and ensure we be do all we can to help they navigate a path to healthy , nutritious and tasty food . in conclusion , I hope the Government will look at deliver a food strategy base on cross - party consultation that will address the food system from supplier to shelf , because the cost of obesity for individual and for society as a whole be unsustainable and be a health crisis we can not ignore . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this much - need debate . I also thank the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) for share his testimony about how he lose 7 stone in such a short time — I tip my turban to he . I have my own story . I lose 2 stone in two month because of what a doctor tell I . forget the nanny state : he say to I in no uncertain term , " if you don ' t lose weight , you win ' t be here in a couple of year ' time . " I go home reel from that news and do exactly what he tell I to do . I lose the weight , have a fantastic body mass index and then I go back for my test . however , let I be clear : people can not undo 20 , 30 or 40 year of damage . if we lose somebody , we wish we could have have an extra day to say goodbye , to thank they or just speak to they one more time . obesity , which lead to so many other disease , rob people of five , 10 or 15 year of their life , and mean grandchild be not able to speak to their grandparent . why ? because those grandparent have pass away . we have to take that on board and counter it . when I go back for my test , I ask for an extra test , because I be one of those people who like to be tell — I be quite vain — how fit and healthy I be . I ask for an extra scan , and I get it . to my shock and horror , that extra scan reveal one of my artery be completely block and the other , the left anterior descend artery , affectionately know as the " widow maker " , be 95 % block , even though I have cycle 85 km the previous day . very quickly , I go into Barts hospital where I undergo triple heart bypass surgery , and I live to tell the tale . it be all because of year of decline . while some condition can not be avoid , obesity can . when I say that my BMI be 27 , the answer be always that BMI be not something to be rely on , but it be the good scale we have . in Ilford South , where 75 % be from the asian subcontinent , 25 be not the BMI number we should be look at — it should be 23 . I be struggle myself , because my BMI be hover at 24 . another cultural shift be need — it be a cultural problem — because when people look at I , have lose 2 stone , they say , " be you okay ? you look unhealthy . " I chuckle to myself when the hon . Gentleman say that , because people ask I if something be seriously wrong . he emphasise the point that weight , whether thin or fat , be a stigmatise subject . even when people be try to get themselves healthy , they get criticism . we have to expose that and get on top of it . I absolutely agree . People have come round to check on I and ask I whether I really be okay or if I have an underlying problem , because I have lose so much weight . the only downside to lose weight be that it be very expensive — I have need a new wardrobe . obesity be the lead preventable cause of death . imagine the prize of an extra five , 10 or 15 year with love one : tackle obesity can give people more time with those they love . obesity cost the NHS billion of pound and impact many livelihood . in my constituency of Ilford South , obesity rate be 10 % high than in the rest of London . my neighbour and their loved one be struggle and suffer unnecessarily . the obesity crisis be threefold . access to affordable , healthy food have decrease , while the prevalence of process food and fast - food outlet have increase . in Ilford , the number of fast - food outlet have grow by a staggering 47 . 1 % in just the last 10 year . nearly a third of child in my constituency be overweight . they be bombard with advert everywhere on their way to school . even bad , youth club have dwindle , leave many young people with few warm place to go after school to enjoy themselves , exercise and socialise . the affordability of healthy food , the accessibility of unhealthy food and reduce support for young people have foster an environment in which unhealthy habit be grow . People do not even know how to cook , which cause a crisis of obesity , rob child of the good start in life and set they up for a lifetime of health problem . we need to be bold enough to confront the grow trend , which be why we be here today . to tackle the accessibility of unhealthy food , Redbridge council set out a local plan to ban fast food outlet 400 metre from school gate , but be they ban ? they be not . the Mayor of London ' s plan say the same thing . we need to give planning policy the necessary tooth to stop fast food outlet open right outside school , and the advert that bombard our child on the way to and from school . to increase the affordability of healthy food , we have to work with charity . in Redbridge , we be work with a food bank to create facility to store fresh fruit and vegetable . last Friday , I have the privilege of be show the food bank ' s new premise , which we have be work on for the past 18 month . I be show the cold storage where we will store vegetable . it be mention early that food bank should be able to store vegetable , because that be the healthy way forward . to give young people a place to go after school , we lead investment in local youth centre . we need a holistic approach . we need to look at not just food itself but everything in society . on a national scale , we have to make change to protect young people from obesity . the Government must do that by fulfil our labour manifesto commitment to ensure that child be no long expose to tv advert for junk food . we have ban pay online junk food advert , prevent the overexposure of young people to unhealthy , processed and fatty food , but we can and must do more . as have be mention two or three time , we must move away from view obesity through the lens of judgment , and confront the way we have allow unhealthy choice to be the easy choice . we must break down the barrier to healthy eating , prevent the manipulation and exploitation of young people , and support everyone to live healthy life . I commend the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on bring forward this important debate . it be refreshing that member on both side of the Chamber be all agree , and try to find a way forward . figure show that more than a quarter of child age four and five in Wales be measure as be overweight , with one in 10 be obese . while those figure be hugely concern , the factor for obesity , as have be say , be incredibly complex . they include the impact of poverty , behaviour result from technological advance , and unhealthy food , to name just a few . as hon . member will know , health be a devolved matter in Wales . obesity be rightly recognise as one of the most significant public health challenge , both in Cardiff and here in Westminster . at the start of this Senedd term , the then Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care , Eluned Morgan , say : " I can give you an absolute commitment … I ' m absolutely determined that this be an area that we should focus on . " four or five year on from that commitment , campaigner be raise the alarm . Obesity Alliance Cymru have say that without urgent action to combat rate of obesity in Wales , our NHS will likely face additional cost of £ 465 million in Wales by 2050 . it be therefore vital that health policy on obesity be receptive to the link between the prevalence of poverty and physical and mental wellbeing . that mean resource to promote physical activity and improve health education , and more time for physical education . Plaid Cymru be proud to have secure free school meal for all primary school child in Wales . at the heart of the policy be the belief that each and every child should have access to hot nutritious meal , especially when so many rely on their school lunch as their most substantial meal of the day . to that end , initiative be already in place that can achieve the high standard of food produce that we all want for our constituent . where I live in Llanarthne — it be a small rural village in the middle of nowhere , but it be the heart of Wales — the council - own Bremenda Isaf farm have be take over to produce vegetable for the public plate as part of the Bwyd Sir G â r food partnership . the project prove not only that we can still achieve short food supply chain , which be useful for food security and resilience , but that local and government - lead farm to fork initiative can work successfully both to support local farming and to ensure well quality , tasty food for our child and resident . the Bremenda Isaf project could be an example to emulate across the whole UK , use public land to produce public food . the UK Government ' s share prosperity fund , which be be cut to £ 900 million in 2025 - 26 before be scrap , be influential in make that initiative happen . I reiterate my call for any wide funding reform to consider the importance of need - base funding , and for all funding allocation for Wales to be decide in Wales . research by Nesta , an innovation foundation , argue that we can reduce obesity and improve population health by improve our food environment . that mean look at the price of healthy option , portion size , advertising and promotion , and convenience . in other word , a holistic approach be the way forward . as hon . member have set out , policy idea have already be develop to put that in motion . new idea and initiative have challenge , but for more effective decision making , we desperately need a different mindset . under - resource these initiative will inevitably mean high future spending on health . now be the time to look at our local community and learn from they . rise — order . to ensure that everybody get in , I be set a time limit of eight minute . on that note , I will keep it short . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for bring forward the debate . I slightly disagree with his suggestion that food be the only answer , because I think fitness play a part , but I guess that be a slightly different discussion . prior to become an MP , I be a physical training instructor in the Army , and I have work in the fitness industry for 15 year , so I have see at first hand the positive effect that good nutrition can have on people ' s mental and physical health — it be absolutely massive . as the House will know , I be an extremely proud Swindonian and absolutely love Swindon — it be the good place in the world , though some might disagree — but there be some fact and statistic that I be less proud of . one of they be that 36 . 8 % of child in my constituency leave primary school overweight — a shocking statistic . they be be set up for failure later in life , for example by get condition such as diabete . it be something we absolutely have to address . as member have mention , when we dig a little deep into the statistic , we see that not only be those child overweight , but more often than not they come from deprive area . that mean it be not only a health issue , but an equality issue . that be something our Government have set out to fix , and it be something we must take seriously . once again , I be proud that we be have this debate . it be important that we talk about obesity and food , and I be thankful that the Government have take forward preventative measure for care in the community first , and I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say on that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud for bring the debate forward and hon . member for take part in it . I commend the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure the debate and for put himself out there by call for a sugar and salt reformulation tax . I will add that it be not just through penalty that we will tackle diet in this country ; it be also through incentive . today I want to talk about some incentive be use in East Devon , where I represent Honiton and Sidmouth . it be recognise a long time ago that ultra - process food be not only link to obesity , but be contribute to malnutrition and poor dental health . I want to highlight the brilliant work of the charity Project Food , which be dedicate to improve diet , promote healthy lifestyle and reduce the burden of preventable disease in the community . Project Food be link slightly to a restaurant call River Cottage . one of the trustee , Stewart Dodd , invite I to see Project Food in October . it operate out of Axminster ' s community hospital , and that be entirely fitting because the work it do be very much around public health . Project Food be a shine example of grassroots public health action . through free cooking demonstration , hand - on session , one - to - one support and online class , it empower people to move away from ultra - process food . yet it find it very difficult to keep up with the grow demand for its service in Devon . More family than ever be turn to Project Food for help because of the high cost of nutritious food , contrast with the relative affordability of food pack with sugar and palm oil . alarmingly , a report by the Food Foundation reveal that low - income household now need to spend up to 50 % of their disposable income on food if they be to meet Government recommendation on what be a healthy diet . over 11 % of UK household experience food insecurity and , as we all know , million be turn to food bank , as well as to ultra - process food , just to survive . while the debate be principally about diet and food , we should think about some of the co - benefit of reduce sugar intake . I will point to dentistry . few than half of the child in Devon see a dentist last year . promote healthy eating habit could reduce the strain not only on the wide NHS and secondary care , but on dentistry . we know that tooth decay be the lead cause of hospital admission for child age between five and nine , so this be plainly an area where work on the reformulation of food could help save money on dentistry too . the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) refer early to Natasha ' s law , which be about how allergen be illustrate on food packaging . that be extend through the calorie labelling regulation that come into effect in 2022 . those regulation have help to prevent obesity by ensure that when people go into a caf é or restaurant , they can see what it be they be eat and the calorie associate with the meal they might choose . we should also recognise that this can have a negative effect . I have a constituent come to I to talk about the calorie labelling regulation in 2022 and the effect they have have on her daughter , who suffer from anorexia . the requirement on large business to put calorie count on menu have make it extremely difficult for she to go out to eat with her daughter . her daughter would take one look at the menu and simply refuse to eat anything , and it lead to the family simply not go out to eat at all . one way the Minister might consider build on those calorie labelling regulation be by require those same restaurant and caf é s to have menu with no calorie count on they , so that family can dine out without the fear of stress out somebody who have an eat disorder . to return to Project Food and how we can well support some of the community asset we have to help tackle obesity and improve diet , we should be think about the use of community hospital . we have spare space in community hospital at Axminster and Ottery Saint Mary , from where Project Food operate . I suggest that the work be carry out by Project Food would be suitable for social prescribing . it be definitely have a positive effect on the people I see who be work with that charity . it have do some excellent work , and I suggest that its work could be scale and implement across the country . with that spare capacity , we could see hub for nutrition programme and other public health measure that support healthy community , which would be very much in line with what the Government have be talk about in response to the Darzi report . by address poor nutrition head - on in the community , we can reduce inequality , improve life and alleviate the immense pressure on our health service . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on get this important debate in the House . People sometimes talk about rise level of obesity as simply a consequence of individual choice ; they say the issue be no more complex than the fact that people be choose not to eat healthily and not to exercise regularly . but if we talk to any expert , academic or parent struggle to put food on the table , they will say that the truth be much more complicated , because rise rate of obesity be deeply tie to social and economic change . over the past 30 year , obesity rate have double while people ' s knowledge of nutrition have not decline . instead , expert point to the change in the food environment . unhealthy food have become much cheap , easy to access and more convenient , while healthy option have become more expensive , hard to access and less convenient . the fact bear that out . today , fruit and vegetable cost twice as much per calorie as food high in fat and sugar . to eat in line with the Government ' s recommend diet , the most deprived fifth of UK household would need to spend 50 % of their disposable income on food , while the rich fifth would need to spend just 11 % , accord to research from the Food Foundation . it be little wonder , therefore , that the most deprived fifth of household eat more than a third less fruit and vegetable compare with the wealthy fifth . although everyone be affect by the food environment , it do not affect everyone equally . it be hard for working - class family to afford healthy and nutritious food — that be beyond doubt . that link between poverty and obesity be clearly see among child . those in the most deprived fifth of the population be more than twice as likely to be live with obesity than those in the rich fifth . child in Knowsley , which form part of my constituency , have some of the high rate of obesity in the country . the fantastic director of public health at Knowsley council , Sarah McNulty , say that that be a poverty and deprivation issue . it do not have to be this way . instead of a food system that pump out unhealthy food while million struggle to put a meal on the table , we could have a system that guarantee everyone a good , healthy diet — put an end to the scandal of hunger and food bank . that be the demand of the right to food campaign , which I be very proud to lead in Parliament . it seek first and foremost to end the injustice of food poverty , but also to ensure that food be of high quality and healthy . that mean everything from ensure that high - street planning encourage healthy eating , and build a proper safety net to get people out of food bank , to introduce universal free school meal and opening community kitchen . we know the effect that those policy have in tackle food poverty and obesity . academic study show that in the London borough that have provide free school meal for all primary school pupil , the prevalence of obesity have be reduce by around 10 % . in Liverpool , co - operative such as Food for Thought , a non - profit company that produce school meal , be wait to go on free school meal . many area in Liverpool be class as food desert , with healthy food in short supply and unaffordable for people who be struggle to get by after the cost of live crisis and 14 year of grind austerity . just 24 % of adult in my great city of Liverpool eat five portion of fruit and vegetable every day . in 2019 , Fans support Foodbanks — an organisation we set up in 2015 — create the market - style mobile food pantry model to tackle the issue of food desert in Liverpool , which have since feed thousand of family across Liverpool and St Helens in a non - stigmatise manner , with fresh fruit and vegetable an absolutely fundamental part of the offering . I take this opportunity to place on the record my thank to all the volunteer who have create that unique model and make it such a success ; it have make such a difference to lot of community across Liverpool . since 2017 , the Rose voucher for fruit and veg project have support struggle family in Liverpool to access fruit and veg . almost £ 300 , 000 - worth of fresh fruit and veg have be buy with the voucher , enable almost 5 , 000 people to access healthy option and avoid food poverty . such community - lead solution , which put people before profit , be one way we can help those in our community who be struggle to access healthy and affordable food . I take this opportunity once again to thank everybody involve in those project . both those fantastic scheme be stick plaster over a gape wound . we need systemic change . implement a right to food be not the art of the impossible ; it be in the Government ' s gift . its funding could be underpin by a high fat , salt and sugar levy on food producer . the remodelling of our food system into one that keep the population and future generation healthy be a political choice . for the sake of future generation , I hope that the Government make the right choice . I thank the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for bring this matter to the House , and everybody who have speak so brilliantly . this debate far prove the point that the issue of diet and health be personal to so many people , and it have be incredible to hear that echo across the House . food be essential for life . it be part of who we be , part of our story and , for many in this House and across the UK , part of our cultural heritage . however , so many family across the UK can not make end meet ; they be literally struggle to put food on the table . I pay tribute to the Resurgam Trust community fridge base in the Laganview and Old Warren estate in Lisburn , and to Dee and Carol , who operate the St Vincent de Paul service at the chapel in Lisburn . I feel almost awful say that , because people in our society should not be force to use charity in this day and age . food bank be not normal whenever I be grow up 30 year ago , and talk about they in this way still make I feel really queasy . I want to call out something that for I be an elephant in the room just now . like all thorny societal issue , it will not be address and deal with in the Health Departments here in England and in Northern Ireland . we have people who work some of the long hour in Europe . worker on minimum wage , and often on zero - hour contract , go home at the end of the day to house that do not have big kitchen and fancy utensil . they might not know how to use pasta or this , that and the other . and why should we dictate what food people should eat ? it be up to they to choose what to eat . yes , ideally it should be healthy , but we be now in a situation where we be say , " well , if you use your money wisely , you can spend £ 20 and buy a big job lot of pasta and a bit of pasta sauce . " what people eat be up to they ; what we should be do be ensure that they be pay well and in stable work , and then they can choose the good , nutritious and sustainable food that they want to eat , rather than have to go to some place to beg for food just to live . [ interruption . ] sorry , this be something I feel really passionately about . at the heart of all this be inequality . what the Resurgam Trust community fridge do well be link it all together . we be deal with a situation in which some of the big issue of the day , include housing and health , be all link . it be because we have take thing for grant . some of the wealthy people live in my Lagan Valley constituency — there be house on the market at £ 250 , 000 to £ 1 million — but on the estate in Lisburn , what people be eat be not healthy and be not good for they . I can also list the associate health problem , which include various comorbiditie , obesity , heart disease and cancer . I really worry about the impact of ultra - process food , particularly on young people . we be see a stark rise in colorectal cancer in particular . I know that some people be reluctant to make that link , and I be not explicitly make it , but we have fundamentally change the sort of food that we eat . I could go and do a supermarket shop today and buy something call noodle , but they be not noodle at all . I do not know what they be make of . I be not very good at science , but I know that margarine be one molecule away from plastic . be that the sort of stuff that we should be eat ? it do not sound good to I to eat plastic . that be the bare reality of it . we also tell people to eat their five a day . yes , they should , but the number of pesticide and herbicide in some of our food worry I . some people might not want to hear that . People think that they be eat healthy food , but we must consider how we process that food . I be shocked to learn about how we classify process food , some of which I , a relatively educate person , would have think be unprocessed , but be not . I can not remember which hon . Member say that ingredient be market as a cereal with certain vitamin , for example , which sound great , but that actually that be nonsense . we could not put anything more unhealthy on our child ' s plate . that go back to my early point : if people be short on time and money , it be because of choice that we have make in this Chamber and in chamber right across Europe and the world . we have make the choice to deprive people and family , whether they be family unit , carer or people who look after child . I do not think that that choice be right . we can not turn around now and decry the obesity epidemic whenever we be not support people to live and work well . I simply ask that we look at the other external factor link to this . yes , it be about food , and yes , we should be do more , but we should not be consider that in isolation . we in this House be task with the job of look after every constituent in the UK . that should be as much about ensure that they have a roof above their head as it be about ensure that they have a choice of nutritious and affordable food because we have give they good , stable job . that be all I ask . I send that message strongly from my Lagan Valley constituent . this have be an excellent and wide - range debate , and I be so happy to have the opportunity to speak in it . I commend the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , who I have work with over a number of year , for his excellent speech . it be always really hard to talk about oneself , but he do it with grace . listen to his really thoughtful contribution today will have help a lot of people — it have definitely help I . as hon . member know , I be a huge supporter of school food . I make lot of contribution about it in this place ; I believe that it should be universal , for all the reason that I will go on to discuss . it be not only about stigma , poverty alleviation and all of that , but about the health benefit that all child eat healthy school food would bring , especially in regard to their diet and obesity . look at school up and down the country , the food that they serve be far too inconsistent . we have see some brilliant example across the country — we have all visit school in our constituency that serve a variety of salad and nutritious hot meal — but other be serve thing like pizza , burger or chip far more often than they should be do under the school food standard . that be damage the health of a generation . the report by the House of Lords Food , Diet and Obesity Committee , chair by the wonderful Baroness Walmsley , discuss the fact that too many secondary school in particular be serve up food that be not prepare student for the rest of their school day . as member across the House know , this be where the school food standard should come in . however , a study by Impact on Urban Health show significant difference between what be mandate by the school food standard , what appear on menu , and what actually end up on plate . in fact , 60 % of secondary school have be find not to follow the school food standard at all . in other word , the school food standard exist on paper , but not on plate . that be why , across the sector and in this House , we have be call for proper enforcement of the school food standard . this government must end the postcode lottery in what child get to eat at lunchtime . there be no great priority for this Government than raise the healthy generation of child ever . this be a matter of health : one in three child be already at risk of future food - relate ill health , such as type 2 diabete or heart disease , by the age of 10 . exist Government initiative be already go above and beyond to combat that , and provide a free breakfast to every primary school child will ensure that pupil be start their day nourish and ready to learn , but there be more to be do . the Department for Education have report that 11 % of family nationally who be entitle to claim free school meal have not apply to receive they . this mean that between 240 , 000 and 470 , 000 child in England — the figure seem to vary depend on who you talk to , but it be a large number — be miss out on their statutory right to a free school meal . this be due to barrier such as complex application , language or literacy challenge , stigma and low awareness . an auto - enrolment plan , as outline by my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) in his private Member ' s Bill — the Free School Meals ( automatic registration of eligible Children ) Bill — and by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) in his opening speech , would solve the problem . many local authority have already have massive success , but data - share challenge or bureaucracy should not prevent child from eat at school , especially when they be entitle to a free school meal . because free school meal be a statutory scheme , Government funding should already exist to provide the up to 470 , 000 miss child with a school lunch , so this should not be see as a spending commitment . that funding also unlock vital pupil premium funding . since 2016 , Sheffield city council have unlock £ 3 . 8 million of extra pupil premium funding every single year to support 5 , 400 child . small tweak like auto - enrolment really can have huge impact on thousand of child ' s life . another concern that must be address be the scarily low eligibility criterion for free school meal . household must be earn less than £ 7 , 400 a year before benefit to be entitle . that leave out up to 900 , 000 child who be live in poverty by any measure but be not in receipt of that crucial support . we have hear example of child pretend to eat from empty lunchboxe , hide in the playground because they do not want other to know that they do not have any food or money for lunch , or ask their friend for an extra sandwich for their friend who never have any food for lunch . we must bring the eligibility criterion in line with universal credit , which would provide those 900 , 000 child with a hot , nutritious meal at lunchtime . surely that be the least we should be do in one of the rich country in the world . in an ideal world , we would follow the example of the London Mayor and extend free school meal to all primary - age child , with the ambition of a universal offer . this would level the play field and eliminate inequality at lunchtime , while also ensure that all child eat healthy , nutritious meal , set they up for a healthy life as adult with low rate of obesity . as we have hear , that would save up to £ 35 billion a year . it be a win - win , surely . these progressive step , empower by the new breakfast club programme , should be take when funding allow . the result would speak for themselves , deliver on our ambitious manifesto commitment for the UK to be raise the healthy generation of child ever . surely they deserve no less . they be our future , after all . I thank everyone for their contribution so far . in particular , I thank the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) for his contribution . it be a very personal story , and when we tell a personal story in this Chamber or anywhere else , it always carry more weight — that be not a pun , by the way . it carry a different focus , and I thank the right hon . gentleman for share that story . we all thank he for share it , because it may inspire other outside this Chamber who find his word wise and helpful . I be happy to speak in this debate . I declare an interest as a type 2 diabetic ; my story of diabetes be personal to I , but it be one that many go through . I have experience the health problem that a fast food diet bring . when I discover I be a type 2 diabetic back in 2008 , I weigh some 17 stone . I be in the Northern Ireland Assembly . we be at the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh , and I have be to see my doctor , because I have some pain that man get in certain place and I have some concern over they . Dr Mageean phone I in Edinburgh and say , " Jim , I ' ve good news for you . do you want the good news or the bad news ? " I say , " well , Dr Mageean , give I the good news first . that ' ll get I on good form . " he say , " the good news be that you ' ve get a heart like an ox . the bad news be that you ' re a diabetic . " why have I become a diabetic ? I do not recognise it , because I do not know what diabetes be . I be a diabetic probably a year before the doctor tell I that day . I live on chinese meal five night per week and two bottle of Coke . the sugar content be extreme , and I be 17 stone . Doctor Mageean tell I , " Jim , it be up to you how you handle this . " his very wise word to I be , " Jim , it be up to you what you do , but if you do not do the right thing , it will progressively get bad . " I go on a diet that day , and I lose an extreme amount of weight . along with that , I of course have fairly high stress level . I be able to make those change and I lose 4 stone in weight , which keep I stable for a while . then I go on to the Metformin tablet , the Linagliptin tablet , the Jardiance tablet and all the other one . in the morning I start with nine tablet and I finish the day with five . many other will do similar thing , because that be how we keep alive and how we manage it . Coffee become a substitute . I drink copious cup a day . I use to drink 12 cup of coffee a day , and I have reduce that to six , mostly in the morning , with five before 11 o ' clock . there be probably side effect from drink too much coffee as well . I tell all these story to make the point that the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold make . he say that we have to do it ourselves , and we do . that be how it work , although I understand some people can not . over the year , I have help numerous people with gastric band operation . they have all be successful , and it have help those people . they have special circumstance , and they be able to lose weight . the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) refer to food bank , and my food bank in Newtownards can give diabetic food to those who have diabete , and those food can help to manage diabete . I remember my mum tell I when I be a child , " always eat your carrot , and your eyesight will never go astray . " well , it do not work for I . it be not an issue for I , because I love carrot and I love vegetable . the carrot do not do I any good , but my mum do perhaps engrain in I the necessity to eat green — the six a day , or five a day as it be . my lifestyle be unhealthy , which lead to lifelong consequence . it also mean that I understand how very easy it be for convenience and a lack of time to lead to an unhealthy option , which be why I would like to focus on how we can make healthy meal more accessible . I be aware that it can be daunt as a parent with young child to try to work out healthy option that child will eat which be also affordable and do not take too long to make . it be clear that more work need to be do to help young family , particularly to get the skill to cook and to create good eat pattern in family of all income . I be really pleased to see the Minister in his place and I look forward to his answer , because he be away constructive in his answer . my son and daughter - in - law be stay with we and they have two child — Freya four and Ezra two and a half — and , as a grandfather , I have notice that they have their child eat their vegetable from a very early age , which help get that focus in place at an early stage . one of my local resident association , scrabo resident association , in conjunction with ards community network , have use funding to put on class for family to learn how to cook in a cost - effective and healthy way . their fun , innovative and informative class help with budgeting and planning , and they know they be successful . however , as so often , the Government funding for that process have no long continue . there be therefore less of an incentive for those volunteer group in the community network to do that , which be a problem . can the Minister give any indication of whether he and his Department be prepared to target that area to help family understand that there be a way to save money on healthy food ? the late datum for Northern Ireland show that 27 % of adult and about one in 16 child , or some 6 % , be live with obesity , and the development of obesity be strongly link to deprivation . the hon . member for Lagan Valley refer to deprivation , and it be so important for people to have a decent wage to buy the right food to look after themselves . between 2011 - 12 and 2018 - 19 , one in three or 36 % of primary year 1 child live in the most deprived area be more likely to be overweight or obese compare with those live in the least deprived area . that represent a 12 percentage point increase since 2012 , when the figure be 24 % . it be now 36 % of primary year 1 child , which be a real problem for we in Northern Ireland , although I be sure those figure be replicate on the mainland . obesity also increase the risk of develop chronic disease such as colon cancer , high blood pressure or type 2 diabete , and it be link to substantial direct and indirect cost estimate to be in the order of £ 370 million in Northern Ireland in 2009 . what be those cost today ? I look to the Minister to consider the approach that I have refer to . as he and other know , I always try to be constructive in my comment and in describe what we have do in Northern Ireland . what be available to help community put on the training , and help people realise that healthy eating be not just for those who can afford to shop at wholefood and organic grocery , but for all of we , and that it can be easy to cook such food in the daily struggle of feed our family ? obesity be a tick time bomb ; we need to defuse it with a co - ordinate and join - up approach , and funding be the foundation of that . I echo early comment by thank all member who have contribute to this debate . as a new member , it have be hearten to hear so much agreement across the House and so many colleague put their evidence , enthusiasm and opinion into find a solution to this epidemic . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for introduce this debate . unlike my hon . friend , who have a medical degree and have become a gp , I take my medical degree and go into public health . I be a public health consultant and that be why I be here . it have be fantastic to hear everybody in this House talk in such resoundingly positive public health term . it be past time for we to address this issue . many great point have be make and I do not intend to repeat they , but I would like to stress a couple of thing , start with an interesting observation about the term " obesity " . it carry with it a certain load and stigma , which as a female I very much recognise . I want to put on record that this be not about fat - shame ; this be not about how people look or how society tell we we should look . this be about our health ; this be about be well and feel well and be able to live well and thrive . I also want to put on record something about body mass index . this be a slightly controversial subject in my area at the moment . it be a useful tool , as people have say , but as my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) mention , there be different level of BMI for different ethnicity , and also it can be a limited metric . the House might be aware of the case of a female olympic bodybuilder be class as obese . we need to be careful about BMI and what we be say to people — child or adult — when we see their BMI . this be about take health in the round , and look at what we eat , not what we look like . there be no debate about the evidence of obesity ' s cost to our population ' s health and our health system . we have hear the figure from multiple member across the House , and £ 6 . 5 billion annually to the national health service be no small figure . we be literally eat ourselves into our sick bed , from diabete to heart attack , from liver disease to cancer ; as we have hear , this be the second most preventable cause , after tobacco , of cancer . I have speak before in the House , and will continue to do so , about create condition for people to thrive and to make healthy choice . today , as so many hon . member have highlight , we live in an obesogenic environment — an environment that promote unhealthy eating and do not make it easy to undertake regular exercise . a less familiar term be the opposite of that , and perhaps Hansard have never hear it : a leptogenic environment promote healthy food choice and encourage physical activity . the comment on housing and on fair pay for good work be about a leptogenic environment . we might reflect on our own environment , Madam Deputy Speaker — whether it be an obesogenic or leptogenic environment . I wonder how many of we have manage to have dinner yet this evening , and how we be feel . that be something for the Modernisation Committee to reflect on . to achieve a leptogenic environment we need to look at measure that create a function food system . as we have hear , we need to work with our farmer and food producer to produce a skilled food sector and a vibrant food economy . for our food system to allow we all to enjoy healthy food — again , we have hear this before — we need to ensure that it be accessible , affordable and attractive . we be visual creature : what we see really influence we and our choice , and , boy , do the food organisation and the food company know that . on accessibility , how easy be it to buy nutritious food ? we have hear member across the House talk about their constituency , their resident , food desert and how for some people , when they go into a shop , the choice be not from an array of vegetable , fruit , decent carbohydrate and decent protein , but from process , often cheap , quite fill , nutritionally poor food . that be not make healthy food accessible . on affordability , we have hear several time from different member that healthy food — this be worth repeat — on average be more than twice as expensive per calorie as less healthy option . if people feed their child across the country this week on a budget be face with two different option , and one be cheap and will fill their child ' s stomach , the odd be that they be likely to take that option , and there be no judgment in that at all . it be on we to make healthy food much more accessible and affordable for people . on attractiveness , how attractive be healthy food ? we have hear this evening about the marketing and branding of ultra - process , high - fat , high - sugar , high - salt food . it be fantastic that our Labour Government and our Minister for Public Health and Prevention , my hon . friend the Member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) have take the step to ban junk food advertisement before the watershed . that be a great step forward , but we need to be mindful of how much investment the major brand of high - fat , high - sugar and high - salt food put into advertising . in digital advertising alone , that figure be £ 87 . 5 million . food organisation do not put money into thing if they do not make profit from they . profit essentially remain their bottom line , not our waistline . these be systemic issue , but we do not need to reinvent the wheel . we need to implement the wide - range recommendation of the national food strategy . the last Government miss that opportunity , but as we move forward with this government , let we look at those recommendation , many of which have be mention in the House this evening . they include introduce a sugar and salt reformulation tax and expand the Healthy Start scheme . in conclusion , we need to ensure that we in this place be legislate to make good nutrition an easy choice for all and that we be curate a healthy leptogenic environment . in that way , we will ensure that we be enable healthy choice for all our resident and reduce obesity to a slim , historical footnote as we move forward into a healthy future for everyone . I thank the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this important debate , and I thank all the member who have contribute so passionately . when we talk about obesity , and in particular childhood obesity , we must not overlook the structural barrier that prevent healthy choice . several key policy could make a transformative difference , and I will draw attention to some of those tonight , but I will start by say that every family in the UK in the 21st century should have access to affordable , healthy and nutritious food . the covid - 19 pandemic contribute to an increase in household food insecurity and food poverty , widen health inequality . recent increase in food cost have become one of the primary contributor to the cost of living crisis . tackle food insecurity in our community be a step towards reduce obesity . it require a restructuring of the whole system that take into consideration how we produce , source , sell and prepare our food . early year nutrition be critical . financial support scheme need to be expand and increase in value . the current rate be inadequate , leave many family unable to provide their child with a nutritious start in life . expand free school meal would be a game changer . the lack of a healthy , nutritious diet do not just affect physical health ; it affect a child ' s ability to learn and thrive . universal access to free school meal would ensure that every child have at least one nutritious meal a day , reduce health inequality and support educational attainment . last year , Stratford - on - Avon district council , on which I be a councillor , pass unanimously my motion to tackle food insecurity in our area . it include look at how planning policy can help reduce unhealthy diet by , for example , encourage community food grow , the creation of food co - operative and limit the spread of fast - food outlet . I pay tribute to the Warwickshire food forum partnership , which develop a Warwickshire - wide food strategy along the priority of access and affordability , food education and sustainable choice . I welcome the " right to Food " campaign support by many council in England that be work towards make access to food a legal right , embed food justice in their policy and call on the Government to have the right to food enshrine in law . finally , we need to look at how we disincentivise unhealthy food choice that be high in calorie and low in nutrient . the soft drink industry levy have be effective , but we must close some of its loophole by extend it to high - sugar food and milk - base drink . that revenue could be reinveste in public health initiative , create a positive cycle of prevent disease . such measure and policy be not just about tackle obesity but about create a healthy and fairer society . I urge the Government to make the change that our community so desperately need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this important and informative debate . I will start with some statistic . over the last seven year , Southend have see one of the high increase in England in the number of child live with obesity , with 22 . 7 % of five - year - old start school with a weight classify as overweight or obese . that rise to 33 . 8 % by the time they leave primary school . the chief medical officer Professor Sir Chris Whitty find in his 2021 annual report that coastal community be some of the worst affect by rise childhood obesity rate , along with many other preventable health harm . it be not fair that where someone live can affect their family ' s and their child ' s health outcome . in Southend , we have see not only that increase in obesity but the closing of sport facility . I concur with my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) with regard to physical activity and exercise , which be also a vital component in the debate . I recently visit Hamstel infant and junior school , whose swimming pool have unfortunately be close down . in that scenario , student who predominantly come from low socioeconomic background do not have access to local swimming facility . that be yet another facility to close down , leave child with less opportunity for physical activity . more widely , in 2021 Swim England report that almost 2 , 000 swimming pool could be lose by 2030 , which be simply unacceptable . the trend be not limit to swimming : since 2010 , nearly 1 , 000 public football pitch have be lose across the UK . childhood obesity be a complex issue , and the closure of sport facility be certainly not the only contribute factor to the increase . poor diet and the cost of living crisis also play a considerable part . poor diet be one of the big preventable risk factor in ill health contribute to low life expectancy and early onset illness . the cost of living crisis and compounding pressure on family ' pay packet mean that child from low socioeconomic background and area do not have the option of a healthy diet . healthy food be twice as expensive calorie for calorie as less healthy food . that be simply not good enough . we need to improve health outcome for child in Southend and in Rochford and create the condition for they to thrive . as many member will know , the House of Lords inquiry into food , diet and obesity set recommendation that have be support by key organisation such as the Obesity Health Alliance . in fact , over the past 30 year we have have 14 strategy to address obesity , contain almost 700 policy recommendation . in that time , obesity have double . this pose a major health risk for our country and a catastrophic cost to our nhs and workforce . the vast majority of recommendation be not implement under the last government . the few that be implement place the burden on the individual and ignore the necessary structural change . our Labour Government have be clear in our mission on health and the NHS : to shift the narrative from ill health to prevention . we be already make change . the advertising of unhealthy food will be ban across all medium before 9 pm from October 2025 . we could go one step far and put an end to the advertising of less healthy food altogether . furthermore , we could introduce more stringent labelling and regulation on snack , so that company can no long mislead parent with false tagline such as " one of your five a day " or " source of protein " on food with huge amount of sugar . finally , we could investigate introduce a salt and sugar tax on food manufacturer , build on the success of the soft drink levy . the Government could use that revenue to make healthy food cheap , particularly for people live with food insecurity . our Labour Government be on a mission to improve living standard . to do that , we need to make change where the previous Government fail . they include tackle obesity head - on , with well access to sport facility , well protection around the marketing of unhealthy food and ease the pressure of the cost of living crisis . my constituency face some of the high level of food - relate health problem and deprivation in the country . with the second high density of fast - food outlet in the country and high level of poverty , many of my constituent lack access to nutritious food . obesity be one of the most difficult issue we face . in Blackpool , 72 % of adult be overweight or live with obesity . in child of reception age , that figure be 27 % , but by year 6 it be a shocking 42 % . these be some of the reason why the House of Lords Food , Diet and Obesity Committee visit Blackpool last year . its report " recipe for Health " highlight Blackpool not only as a critical case study , but for our potential to lead meaningful change . the report demonstrate that Blackpool be a food desert , with many area lack access to fresh fruit and vegetable . instead , fast - food outlet dominate the landscape , offer cheap , high - calorie option that often be the only affordable choice for family on a budget . in fact , Blackpool be among the place where food insecurity be most deeply feel , with rise reliance on food bank and emergency food parcel . the report stress that community such as Blackpool need well access to healthy and affordable food . for Blackpool , that could mean revitalise local food market , set up food hub and create partnership between local farmer and resident to bring fresh food directly into our community . that would bypass the high price and limited option of the supermarket , offer a more sustainable way to source food locally . at the same time , the report suggest reform the food environment in Blackpool and other area face similar challenge , where fast - food outlet be prevalent . by limit the number of unhealthy outlet and support the growth of healthy business , the town could make it easy for resident to make well food choice . such small change could have a big impact on public health . one of the most important recommendation in the report be for food education to be a priority . in Blackpool , where diet - relate illness be rampant , provide nutrition education could make a real difference . that could include teach people how to cook healthy meal on a budget and offer workshop in school to help child to understand the importance of good nutrition . late last year , I visit Blackpool Learning Rooms , where this approach be already under way . the council - operate project have kitchen , where I meet adult learner on the " eat well , spend less " course , which run fun and informative class teach the basic of cookery and budgeting . the report also highlight the importance of local food initiative . project such as community kitchen , urban farm and food co - op be already take root in Blackpool with the like of at the Grange , which Committee member visit . the community centre have an on - site grow project , grow Blackpool , and a caf é offer affordable and nutritious food on a housing estate that have no shop sell fresh food . project such as at the Grange could be the key to transform our food system , help people to access healthy , affordable food and create strong and more resilient community . the food landscape in Blackpool clearly need urgent attention , but the town also hold an opportunity to lead the way in transform our food system . the " Recipe for Health " report paint a picture of a well future , where community like those in my constituency be healthy , more sustainable and more connected to the food we eat . local organisation like the Blackpool Food Partnership and Blackpool food bank , alongside Jamie Oliver ' s Ministry of Food , be already make stride in this direction . by work together , community group , local authority , business and entrepreneur can create a more sustainable , equitable food system that put health at its centre . the key be to invest in these community - lead project and ensure that everyone , no matter their income , have access to healthy , affordable food . if Blackpool can implement the change suggest in the Food , Diet and Obesity Committee ' s report , it could serve as a model for town across the UK . local food hub , healthy eating habit , well education and a shift in the food environment could change our future . it will not happen overnight , and it will not be easy , but the foundation be already there . with the right investment and support from both local and national leadership , Blackpool can become a shine example of how we can build a more sustainable food system and a healthy community . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure what have be a powerful and impactful debate . it have reflect the personal experience and relationship that people have with food , which can be complex . my interest in this subject start as a councillor in West Lothian , when I become acutely aware of the grow financial pressure that have leave people really struggle to put food on the table . my experience with constituent experience hardship lead I to champion the Co - operative party ' s " Food Justice " campaign and initiate the set - up of the West Lothian Food Network . the network , which consist of local third sector and community group , have evolve over the year . initially set up just day before lockdown , it end up provide emergency food support to those in financial hardship and experience social isolation during the pandemic . today , the network be a 21 - member organisation that address inequality and support those on low income , from rural area and from disadvantaged group who be at risk of poor health outcome because of food insecurity . I put on the record my thank to all the staff and volunteer from those organisation that have play a part in the network over the year , include West lothian food bank . I also thank the team at Bo ' ness Storehouse , which support my constituent in that area . with the increase obesity gap between the most and least deprive , health inequality be also on the rise . the reality in Scotland be startling . as we have already hear , two third of all adult be overweight , and a third of child start primary school at risk of be overweight . one in six scot be on a waiting list , and there be no doubt that many will be there due to obesity and diet - relate health complaint , with many more on long - term medication for condition such as high blood pressure , osteoarthritis and type 2 diabete . the damage of unhealthy food do not fall evenly across the country . the vast majority of billboard for junk food advertising be target towards the most income - deprive community , and fast - food outlet make up a significantly high proportion of local food option . again , that be something I hear time and again as a councillor . many community be cry out for fresh fruit and veg shop , but all they see be more fast - food outlet open . it have become worryingly common that community that have the least do not have access to choice when it come to where they shop . we have hear about food desert . limited transportation option far compound the problem . if someone do not drive and they live in an area that be ill - serve by bus or train route , the food that be more likely to be on offer to they will be highly process with less nutritional value , high in salt , fat and sugar , and often more expensive . the underlie pressure on time , local infrastructure and earning impact on the freedom to choose and the ability to lead healthy life . I be very grateful for organisation such as the Whitburn Community Development Trust and the West Lothian Foodbank , which have community garden and take the produce from the garden and put they directly into their pantry to support people to access nutritious , healthy food . but if you live in an area where there be no such group or community garden , and if you be struggle financially to put food on the table and you have no way to make it to a low - cost supermarket that do have healthy option , can we really say that you have a choice ? adult on low income be more than twice as likely to have diet that be high in sugar , saturate fat and salt , and low in fibre , fruit , vegetable and fish . we know that a weak diet from a young age be detrimental to long - term development and health . that impact can be see in our hospital , where , as we hear , tooth decay be the most common reason for the admission of child . lack of access to local dentist be an issue I raise at Prime Minister ' s question last week . in Scotland , we have the shameful statistic that one in four child be start school with tooth decay . the cost be personal and societal . the human cost of obesity can be measure in increasingly impaired mobility , slow recovery from illness and early physical decline . last year , diabetes UK report that in Scotland the number of case of people under 40 live with type 2 diabete rise by almost a third between 2016 and 2022 . in 2023 , Frontier Economics estimate that the total economic impact of obesity in the UK be £ 98 billion , include cost to the NHS and social care , lose productivity , workforce inactivity and welfare payment . diabete care alone account for nearly 10 % of the NHS budget . the scale of the pressure demand urgency in how we respond . the impact on the economy can be measure in lose productivity , but most importantly it reflect a really worrying trend : the shrink work population , great social isolation and the rise in the number of people with complex health need . policy often talk of the last mile , the final few yard , to get support over the line and accessible to those who need it most . in my view , that must be the first and most essential mile . there be national change that we can make and that we have make . I welcome the Government ' s new restriction on advertising to child , with the new watershed restriction and online advert ban as a strong first step to reduce exposure . we have to do more to make food accessible , cheap and more available in community where they have the least . the uprating of the sugar levy will force business to far innovate their product , low the sugar content and find taste without rely on unhealthy additive . the revenue raise , as we have hear , could be use to address the gap in accessibility to healthy food at community level , particularly in those area with the great challenge . I look forward to that constructive conversation continue across the House . do nothing be not an option if we be to have a healthy workforce in future , reduce health inequality face those with the least , and leave our child a legacy of living long , healthy and more active life . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this important debate . the grow prevalence of obesity be a public emergency . it be profoundly affect not only individual ’ life , but the economic and social fabric of our nation . let I clearly state that this be not a debate about willpower or individual choice ; it be about the system , environment and inequality that shape those choice . what do it say about our country when child in area of deprivation be twice as likely to experience obesity as their peer in wealthy community , when child in the least well - off family eat significantly few fruit and vegetable , or when family with the low income be more than twice as likely to consume diet that be high in sugar , salt and fat ? to I , it say that we be fail those on the low income . as a physiotherapist , I have work with family grapple with the challenge of face childhood obesity . I have see the emotional toll on child who be bully or exclude , and the frustration of parent who have no access to affordable , healthy food or safe space for their child to play in . medical practitioner be also witness the impact on people ' s mental health . obesity be not merely about calorie in and calorie out ; the medical journal the Lancet have rightly describe it as a " complex adaptive system " . there be a battle to be have against obesity on so many level . it start with Government policy on housing and education and behaviour relate to diet and exercise . there be also biological factor at play , include genetic , age and ethnicity . the further statistic be alarming . in England , two third of adult live with obesity or be overweight , and 29 % be severely obese . among child , the situation be equally troubling . the weight of one in five child enter primary school be above a healthy level , and by the time they leave , the figure rise to one in three . this be compound by societal change and challenge : the high cost of live and of healthy food ; the prevalence of product high in fat , sugar or salt ; and environment saturate with fast - food outlet and inadequate green space . the financial cost be staggering . obesity - relate illness currently cost the NHS £ 6 . 5 billion a year , a figure project to rise to £ 9 . 7 billion by 2050 . across the economy , the broad impact , include loss of productivity , have be estimate to be £ 98 billion each year . to address this multifaceted crisis , we must adopt a systematic , whole - society approach . we need key intervention to help we to deal with our obesity public health problem . we must make change such as expand the healthy start scheme and increase the value of payment to reflect rise food cost ; perhaps look again at the advertising ban and consider whether we should go far ; incentivise business to reformulate product to reduce salt , sugar and fat content ; support after - school activity hub to increase physical activity among child ; strengthen school food standard to ensure that child have access to nutritional food ; create and maintain safe , accessible green space , thus encourage outdoor activity , reduce sedentary behaviour and improve mental health ; and design urban environment that prioritise active travel such as walk and cycle through well infrastructure — for instance , cycle lane and pedestrian zone . the Government should adopt a comprehensive food strategy with independent oversight from the Food Standards Agency . target should be set for reduce the availability of product with high level of fat , sugar or salt , and increase the number of healthy food option . local authority should be empower with great planning and licensing control to limit the proliferation of fast - food outlet and promote healthy eating . Parliament have a responsibility to lead on this issue . we must move away from the medicalise paradigm that isolate obesity as an individual issue , and focus on the societal structure that underpin it . policy must address the root cause of inequality , which drive the disproportionate impact of obesity on low - income family . I call on the Government to enact bold , decisive measure to transform our food system and environment . this be not just about health ; it be about fairness , opportunity and create a future in which no child ' s potential be limit by the circumstance of where they be bear . let we grab the opportunity to address obesity comprehensively by put health , equality and wellbee at the heart of our policy . I , too , thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this really important debate , and for his thoughtful and incredibly insightful speech on one of the big health challenge that our country face , as many member have say . after a week ' s delay , I be glad that we be now able to have this debate , and it have be great to see how much consensus there be across the House on the need to act . as we set out in our manifesto , and as the consultation on the 10 - year plan for the NHS say , we must move towards have a much sharp focus on the prevention of ill health for the sake of the long - term viability of our NHS . as other member have say , there be a huge crisis , with grow level of obesity put the nation ' s health at risk . in my constituency , nearly 15 , 000 Dartford resident meet the definition of obese . such statistic denote immense health inequality , with those on low income far more likely to be obese , as other member have point out . there be plenty of reason why we must take action in this area . we spend £ 6 . 5 billion annually on treat obesity - relate ill health , and around £ 10 billion a year on diabete , with the number of type 2 diabetes diagnosis double over the last 15 year . aside from the financial cost , we should surely wish for people to live long , healthy life . this month I be privileged to be spend my Tuesdays and Thursdays on the Public Bill Committee for the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , a landmark piece of legislation that we will go through line by line . among other measure , it will prevent anyone bear after 1 January 2009 from purchase tobacco . I be very pleased to see in this Chamber a number of colleague who be also on that journey with I , include the Minister and the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . the argument that we hear against obesity intervention today be the same one that we hear about restrict smoking in day go by : that it be " nanny state " , that regulatory approach do not work , that the public will not stand for it , and that it make thing more expensive , which impact on those who can least afford it . one of the great public health legacy of the last Labour Government be their intervention on smoking . smoking be to the last Labour Government what obesity can be to the current one . obesity currently place a staggering burden on the NHS and the wide economy , but it will be one of the great legacy of this government if we can turn thing around and make our country healthy . solution be urgently need . I very much welcome the Government ' s plan to review the sugar tax and to consider extend it to milk - base drink . as many member have say , however , we need to go so much far , include by tax food that be high in salt , fat and sugar , as recommend by the House of Lords inquiry . manufacturer reformulate their product in the face of the soft drink industry levy , and I see no reason why that can not happen with a well - design levy on food high in fat , salt and sugar . I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to ban advertisement for junk food aim at child and the sale of high - caffeine energy drink to under - 16s , and I look forward to work with member of different party to tackle this crisis . in my time in local government , I have see how support less well - off family to replace unhealthy food in their diet with fresh fruit and vegetable — such as through the programme run by the Alexandra Rose Trust , which other have mention tonight — have have a transformative impact on family ' physical and mental health . I urge the Government to fund voucher scheme , introduce food ambassador to improve cooking skill , and encourage food grow as part of the solution . as we be in Veganuary , I commend the work to increase the level of plant - base food in people ' s diet . I hasten to add that I be not a vegan myself , although I do aspire to eat more healthily . veganuary and vegan diet be good for our health and good for the planet . that could be part of the solution , and I urge the Minister and other , particularly those in local government , to consider it too . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for his persistence in secure this debate . the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) talk in his captivate speech about the difference between adult obesity and childhood obesity . my Cheshire colleague the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) talk about choice , but of course child do not always have a choice . they be the one I hope to speak for tonight . in Mid Cheshire , the level of child measure as overweight be worryingly high . the statistic broadly track the England average , but there be some notable significant peak and trough , with over 38 % of child in year 6 measure as overweight in six ward out of 12 . child from the most deprived area of England be twice as likely to be live with obesity as those from the least deprived area , which demonstrate that persistent inequality exist in childhood obesity . that track with the pattern in my constituency . worryingly , more than half of child live with obesity go on to be obese adolescent and more than three quarter of obese adolescent become obese adult . this be certainly reflect in the level of adult obesity locally and nationally . in my area , over 68 % of adult be class as live with overweight or with obesity , which be more than the England average of 64 % . it be sometimes too easy to reduce the issue to cold statistic . do so not only fail to recognise the real consequence of obesity both on individual and on society , but overlook its cause . we certainly can not ignore the impact of food and diet on obesity , particularly in the context of health inequality and the current cost of living crisis . the food choice we make be heavily influence by our environment and socioeconomic status . it be crucial to understand that the availability and accessibility of healthy food option be not the same for everyone . health inequality persist in our society , with many individual and family face barrier that hinder their ability to make nutritious food choice . these disparity be far exacerbate by the cost of living crisis , in which rise price of essential good have force many people to prioritise affordability over nutritional value . in that environment , unhealthy process food often become the most accessible option , lead to a rise in obesity rate among vulnerable community . the consequence of obesity be profound , particularly for our child . study show that child struggle with obesity be at high risk of myriad health issue include diabetes , heart disease , asthma and mental health challenge . beyond the physical ramification , obesity can limit their life chance . this cycle of disadvantage not only impact their present but shape their future , create a lasting legacy of inequality that follow they into adulthood . the evidence could not be clear that inequality and obesity be intrinsically link . the repercussion from both constitute a notable source of morbidity and impaired quality of life , and their complication can have a major bearing on life expectancy . the toll on individual health be staggering , but it be only part of the story . beyond individual health , we must consider the wide economic and societal consequence of obesity . the cost associate with treat obesity - relate illness strain our NHS and divert resource from other essential service . as obesity rate continue to rise , so too do the burden on our healthcare system . the annual £ 6 . 5 billion cost of obesity be project to increase to £ 9 . 7 billion by 2050 . the total cost to the UK economy , include NHS treatment cost and lose productivity , be estimate to be a staggering £ 98 billion per year . we bear a collective responsibility to address the root cause of food and diet on obesity , to tackle not only the individual health implication but the implication to our wide society . to do so , we must advocate policy that promote healthy food environment , ensure equitable access to nutritious food and support family in make healthy choice , regardless of their financial situation . education and awareness must also play a critical role in this effort . by empower individual with knowledge about nutrition and healthy lifestyle , we can help to break the cycle of obesity . I be proud that this Labour Government be commit to lead on a bold food strategy . similarly , I welcome the introduction of school breakfast club through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill and the update to the national planning policy framework on the siting of hot food takeaway , the promotion of increase access to green space and sustainable transport . both policy will help in the fight to tackle childhood obesity , address systemic health inequality and promote positive health outcome . however , give the clear statistical link between poverty , inequality and childhood obesity , we must bear down on child poverty in this Parliament if we be to tackle the issue . I look forward to hear more from the child poverty taskforce when it report this year . address obesity be not just a moral imperative . it be critical to support this Government ' s effort to ensure the long - term sustainability of the NHS , to break down barrier to opportunity and to increase economic productivity . as we have hear today , the impact of food and diet on obesity be a multifaceted issue that require our immediate attention . by implement effective policy and work towards a healthy future , we can create a society in which everyone can thrive , free from the burden of obesity and its associate health challenge . a bariatric bed be a special big , strong bed use in hospital for extremely obese people . when I be a medical student , there be no such thing as a bariatric bed — not invent , not need . but then , hospital do not have food bank for their staff either . so how have we get our relationship with food into such a mess ? the epidemic of obesity be a public health emergency cost billion . million of our citizen be die early . the Government simply must act . this can not be leave to the market . we do it with smoking , and now we will do it with obesity . we have no choice . we know that at the heart of the matter be high - fat , high - sugar , high - salt , factory - produce food that be often ultra - process , cheap , convenient , tasty and very profitable for a few very large food business . nor must we forget that it be our poor citizen who be most affect — those who be cash - poor , time - poor and at high risk of a poor diet . we can not continue like this . the Government must act to change food habit . this be not the nanny state ; this be simply good government . " smoking kill , " it say on cigarette packet . some food kill , too , so how about " the food in this packet will kill you if it be not part of a healthy , mixed diet " ? obesity be a massive issue for surgeon , increase morbidity and mortality . although we can staple stomachs or inject up to 3 . 5 million people with anti - obesity drug , we all know that that be not the answer . let we use the power of Government to legislate : warning on food packet , breakfast club in school , which we have already introduce , advertising ban , tax incentive , cook education and an end to the dependence on the cheap , unhealthy food that blight the life of so many of our citizen . we have no choice . I thank my hon . friend for give way during a very interesting speech . do he agree that the national curriculum review present the Government with an opportunity to encourage and strengthen the healthy eat component of the relationship , sex and health education curriculum so that citizen and especially young people be empower to make healthy decision on eat ? my hon . friend ' s intervention be not really an intervention , because I have reach the end of what I wish to say . nevertheless , I thank he sincerely . it be a pleasure to close the debate for the Liberal Democrats . I congratulate the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure the debate . all the contribution , include his opening speech , have be excellent and well informed . I be particularly interested to hear about the existence of good food desert in Blackpool South and Liverpool West Derby . even in Shropshire , where we grow some of the most wonderful and nutritious food that can be imagine , we have a high - than - average obesity rate : 67 % of adult be overweight and 32 % be medically obese . that be an interesting reflection on the availability of good food and on people ' s ability to choose healthy option because of the cost of food at the supermarket . in rural area , housing be more expensive but average wage be low . if people can not access public transport , as the hon . member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) point out , they be often force to shop at expensive local shop and be thereby force into buy packet of less nutritious food . we need to deal with obesity . two third of the adult population be overweight . the NHS be spend almost a tenth of its annual budget on diabete . obesity have a significant impact on the health and wellbeing of people who deserve well : they be three time more likely to develop colon cancer , two and half time more likely to have high blood pressure , and five time more likely to have type 2 diabete . the history of tackle those problem be a litany of failure for all three major party in 30 year of government because , as other hon . member have mention , we have have 700 different policy on the issue over the year , with no impact . it be time for a coherent strategy to tackle the obesity crisis . it be good to tentatively welcome the Government ' s new national food strategy and their step on junk food advertising , which be a positive move . the liberal Democrats would like to see the Government go far , particularly on the use outdoor advertising in area where people be particularly vulnerable to see it . for example , we want local authority to be allow to restrict outdoor advertising near school . I be interested in some of the suggestion that have be make about planning and fast food outlet , especially as 35 . 2 % of child age 10 to 11 be now overweight — a staggering 20 % rise since 2015 . that coincide with a 16 % fall in spending on obesity - relate measure in the public health grant during the same period . we welcome the Government ' s propose preventive measure . we hope that some of the large sum earmark for health and the NHS in the recent Budget can be put into public health and prevention measure , because we want to stop people get unhealthy in the first place rather than deal with the problem after it occur . in Shropshire , one in five child age four to five be overweight and more than one in 10 be obese . ironically , almost half be not eat enough fruit and veg , despite the fact that they be grow all around we . the same number be not active enough . to encourage activity , we could introduce a different classification for leisure centre . hon . member have mention the importance of swimming pool and place to become fit and healthy . I know that the hon . member for Stroud say that the food element be more important than the activity element ; none the less , we should be encourage get fit as part of a healthy lifestyle . will the Minister consider make leisure centre part of our critical health infrastructure so people can rely on their leisure centre stay open and can have somewhere to go if they can not exercise in their home or their local area ? healthy eating help with other preventable problem , such as tooth decay . my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) mention poor oral health , another avoidable issue that we can deal with . the importance of good oral health in care home have recently be impressed on I by various member of the dentistry profession , because poor oral health can lead to aspirated pneumonia . that be a partially separate issue from obesity , but unhealthy and sugary snack be be offer to people in care home , so I wonder whether we can encourage healthy eating in those setting as well as in our school and hospital . there be no get away from the fact that obesity be intrinsically link to inequality and deprivation . since 2019 , the cost of a weekly food shop have rise by almost a third . as I mention , rural area be not exclude . in Shropshire , 14 % of household be struggle with food poverty , or as I prefer to call it , poverty . there be a high risk of cost of live vulnerability for child who be in poverty . lot of Members speak about the great work of their local food bank . in Shropshire , an organisation call OsNosh take food that be due to be throw away by the supermarket at the end of the day but be still perfectly good to eat . the next day , it produce fantastic chef - cook lunch that people can enjoy . if people be able to pay for those lunch , they can do so ; if they be not , they do not have to . it be a wonderful way of bring the community together to eat good food without the stigma of not be able to afford it . however , I think we all agree that reliance on the third sector to solve this problem be not really acceptable in the modern age , so lift family out of poverty must be a priority for the Government . our policy be for free school meal for all child in poverty , and a roll - out of free school meal to all primary school be our ambition when fund allow . I hope that the Government also have the ambition , when fund allow , of lift the two - child benefit cap , which would lift a quarter of a million child out of poverty . holiday activity and food programme happen across the country , not just locally . in the summer , I visit a HAF programme in Oswestry at which child be offer a healthy meal , a day out of the home — often in a much safe environment than their home — and a good day of activity . the organisation that deliver that in Oswestry , the New Saints Foundation , offer it not just to child whose family can not afford a nutritious meal at home but to all child , to remove the stigma , and give all the kid a fun day at the HAF programme . future funding for HAF programme be not certain , so will the Minister clarify what will happen to they ? they be a really good way to ensure that child eat healthily through the holiday , as well as when they be at school and in receipt of free school meal . the hon . member for Stroud also mention labelling . I be conscious of time , so I will be fairly brief with this little anecdote . labelling can be really misleading , even to parent who be comfortably off — I would not describe myself as the most well off — and well meaning . it be a long time ago , so I will not mention the brand , but I resort to buy an organic brand of food for my child when we be at the puree stage of weaning . he become so addicted to it that it become really difficult to wean he off on to something much more nutritious , fill and healthy , such that I have a sleepless night every night because he be still hungry . one evening , I have a very embarrassing moment in the supermarket , almost have a breakdown because I have bump into an old friend and the supermarket have sell out of these food pouch , and that be a complete disaster . I find out later that although the puree be organic and have no add sugar , it be actually really high in sugar . it be essentially just pear , water and some spelt , so it be really sweet and sugary . I have inadvertently give my child something that I have expect to be healthy but be not . good labelling would have solve that problem ; I be sure that it would help many parent whose child have a single brand addiction . it be 15 year ago , and the brand may well have reformulate since then , which be why I will not mention the name , but it be something that we need to be aware of . the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) speak powerfully about his own struggle with his weight , and he mention the use of various different type of jab to tackle obesity . I do not think that we should dismiss jab out of hand . clearly , they be very helpful for some people , but I really think that the Government ' s emphasis need to be on prevention , and on a public health strategy to stop people get to the point of need to use those drug in the first place . the UK should be one of the healthy country in the world . we have a great history of grassroots sport , the high - quality food production imaginable , and world - lead medical research , but we be become sicker , and fall behind similar country . it be time to act . we welcome the junk food advertising ban and restriction on high - caffeine energy drink as a really good first step . we also welcome the commitment to a national food strategy . I put in a plea for our farmer , who work to very low margin . I ask for the strategy to consider the role of the Groceries Code Adjudicator , and ensure that our farmer be keep in business to continue to deliver our food . finally , please consider our call for prevention , to give child a healthy start in life . I should declare an interest as a child ' s doctor and a farmer ' s wife . we all want to live healthy life . it give we a healthy life expectancy , reduce illness burden and give we more happy year to spend with those whom we love . however , begin in the second half of the 20th century and continue today , the developed world have see an unprecedented rise in obesity level . the growth of high - calorie process food and sugary drink , along with our more sedentary lifestyle , have undoubtedly play a key role . in the UK , two third of adult be classify as overweight or obese . accord to the recent House of Lords report , over a fifth of child be overweight or obese before they even start school , and by the time they leave school , that number have double . as a child ' s doctor , I have see child with significant medical complication from obesity , include a child of 12 who weigh over 120 kg and a child of nine who weigh over 95 kg . as the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) say , doctor and other clinician have a responsibility to let people know of the harm of obesity , but they do not always do so . that be partly because of time constraint and because there be not necessarily a clear path to point the individual towards . such message can also be receive with hostility , which be another deterrent . as hon . member have say , obesity lead to health problem . the excess body fat disrupt the normal bodily function , amplify the risk of heart disease , diabetes , cancer and arthritis while weaken the body ' s ability to fight infection . during the pandemic , an obese person have a 40 % high chance of die from covid - 19 than their peer of a healthy weight . the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) speak of the human consequence . an obese mother be more likely to suffer from complication during pregnancy . she be more likely to miss out on important life event as the child grow up , and when her grandchild be bear , she will have a low chance of be there to enjoy they . what be cause this obesity ? at its most fundamental level , overweight and obesity be the storage of fat as surplus energy — energy consume as food that be extra to requirement — but the reason may be more complex . many hon . member have discuss the lack of affordable food , but they do not recognise or heed support for those grow our food and our fruit and veg . instead , this Government have so far attack our farmer with high taxis during their lifetime and at death . that will only increase the price of fruit and veg . Lincolnshire grow 20 % of the country ' s vegetable , but the Labour Government seek to carpet our beautiful farmland with mile and mile of solar panel , reduce the area available for grow healthy fruit and veg , increase import and price . as my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) say , time be key . for family in which both parent be work , find time to collect child , prepare wholesome meal from scratch , help with homework and get child to bed on time can lead to pressure to grab quick food or use packet sauce . a YouGov survey from 2022 find that a third of british people feel that they need a recipe to produce food from scratch , and one in six feel uncomfortable even with a recipe , so confidence in the kitchen need to be improve . it be also worth remark that genetic play a part , as can medication and medical condition . hormonal response to food restriction also play a part , so once someone have gain weight once , it be not necessarily as easy as just say , " eat less " . I have spend a great deal of my time in Parliament sit on the Health and Social Care Committee , where the need for great focus on prevention be continually raise . nowhere well be that illustrate than on the issue of obesity . for example , Public Health England ' s laudable Better Health diet campaign that run from 2020 - 21 cost only 0 . 05 % of what the NHS spend on obesity and overweight treatment annually . healthy eat begin with education . People should know how to create healthy nutritious meal on a budget , as the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) say . I appreciate the work do by the previous Government to expand nutritional education in state school , and I would like to mention Washingborough academy and its headteacher Jason O ' Rourke , who have win award for locally produce healthy school food . People also need to know what be in their food so they can make informed choice when they eat on the go . the Conservatives take action to display calorie information on menu , so that people can make informed decision . that can also influence portion size . the previous Government introduce the soft drink levy in 2018 , and in 2022 we restrict promotion on food high in salt , sugar and fat . recent datum from the NHS health survey show that obesity rate among adult have stabilise over the past five year , and the number of overweight or obese child be now at its low level since 2000 — although I note that those figure have continue to rise in Scotland and Wales . let I turn to advertising . do advertising work ? of course it do . if I say , " the red car and the blue car have a race , " I be sure that member of a similar age to I would know which sweet that line advertise . if I ask they which sweet would be " just enough to give your kid a treat , " they would know exactly which one I mean . [ interruption . ] the Minister be nod — as be you , Madam Deputy Speaker . but be the problem the advert , or be it what they be advertise ? be what they be advertise the same as or different from what they be advertise 20 year ago ? at the moment , the Government ' s approach to advertising seem a little wrong - headed . their plan to restrict the advertising of junk food before 9 pm paint with a very broad brush , and muesli , porridge and rice cake be include under the ban . however , the NHS website say that porridge be a healthy breakfast . do the Minister disagree with the NHS ? do the Government intend to implement a similar policy to that of Transport for London under the Mayor of London , which allow the advertising of fry chicken burger but not of strawberry and cream ? the Minister need to think carefully about what he want to promote as a healthy and diet and then work from there . before the general election , the previous Health Secretary ask the National Institute for Health and Care Research to gather evidence on the impact of ultra - process food on health . have the Government develop a strategy to address the prevalence of ultra - process food in our diet ? the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) mention that many such food contain artificial ingredient . one of my concern be that a ban or tax on high fat , salt and sugar food cause reformulation , but not necessarily to take sugar out and make an item less sweet , for example ; it can be to add sweetener and other chemical substitute that may also trigger addictive eat behaviour . that may be more harmful and retain the sweetness , so it do not change people ' s need for that sort of food . member have mention the prospect of new pharmaceutical such as Ozempic in tackle obesity . the Government have express an interest in explore that far , and we welcome the new partnership with life science company to consider the potential of pharmaceutical in tackle some of the challenge face the country . my right hon . friend the Member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) talk powerfully of his use of Wegovy to lose 5 stone , and I congratulate he on his success in do so . one important point that he make about that class of drug be that they be not by themselves a silver bullet ; they require willpower and people need to work with not against they , as he say . they be not without potentially severe side effect , and as they might only work when an individual be use they , they may require lifelong use . we need a judicious use of intervention with pharmaceutical , combine with the necessary education and lifestyle change for weight loss to be sustainable in the long term . this debate have focus on the issue of nanny state versus the freedom to choose . this be a Labour Government , so of course they be very keen for widespread state intervention , but what we need be not a list of ban and taxis but a coherent policy base on a clear understanding of what they mean by " healthy diet " ; a strategy for food security that include more home - grow food ; education on diet and cooking ; the removal of the stigma associate with be overweight or obese , which many member mention ; the avoidance of ban and taxis lead to reformulation with additive and processing ; and , as obesity be such a difficult condition to reverse , the judicious use of medication . most importantly , prevention be well than cure , so let we focus on the child . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for ensure that this debate take place , and I be particularly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure it in the first place . I be also grateful to all member for their valuable contribution . we have hear speech from across the House , include from my hon . friend the Members for Bolton South and Walkden ( Yasmin Qureshi ) , for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) , for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) , for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) , for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , for worthe West ( Dr Cooper ) , for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) , for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . on the Opposition Benches , we hear from the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , who I have to say look so healthy as a consequence of the medication he be take . I remember what he look like before — he be a shadow of his former self . we also hear from the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) , for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) , and then obviously from the opposition spokespeople for the Liberal Democrats and the official Opposition . the United Kingdom have an obesity crisis . it pose serious challenge to our health , add preventable pressure on the NHS , and restrict our economic productivity . I be reassure that none of we in the Chamber today underestimate the scale or importance of the task ahead , and we all recognise the need for action . I be proud that this Labour Government have already act on manifesto commitment in several key area , as I will outline , but I be also aware that much more need to be do . over two third of adult be live with excess weight , and around 36 % of child be live with obesity or be overweight by the time they leave primary school . that be appalling , but while it be shocking by itself , that average hide the deep inequality we see in obesity . child live in poor area be more than twice as likely to be live with obesity than those live in the least deprived area . that have a huge impact on our life , increase the risk of many serious disease — as we have hear — as well as exacerbate mental health issue and reduce the year that we and our loved one can expect to live in good health . almost 22 % of all working - age people be economically inactive , and much of that be due to long - term health condition cause or exacerbate by obesity . the cost of obesity - relate condition to the NHS now stand at £ 11 . 4 billion a year , and the cost to wide society be a staggering £ 74 billion every year . I be so proud that we be committed to raise the healthy generation of child ever . that mean go far on prevention and tackle the driver of obesity . over recent decade in the UK , food and drink that be calorie dense , nutrient poor and less healthy have become cheap . it be vital that we ensure our policy continue to drive company to make food and drink healthier . that be why this Government take action to uprate the soft drink industry levy in the October Budget . that levy have already take thousand of tonne of sugar out of the drink we consume every day , and I give credit to George Osborne , the Conservative Chancellor in the coalition Government , who introduce that measure . uprating the levy be a key part of keep it effective and continue to drive reformulation towards healthy product . however , this be not just about what be in our food and drink ; less healthy food be more heavily promote , market and advertise than ever before . one third of the food industry ' s advertising budget be spend on marketing confectionery , snack , dessert and soft drink , while only around 1 % of that budget be spend on marketing fruit and vegetable . it be therefore not a surprise that our child want to eat those product . one study estimate that 6 . 4 % of UK childhood obesity be attributable to junk food tv advertising . that be why this Government have already meet our manifesto commitment to lay the secondary legislation require to ensure the ban on junk food ad target our kid come in from October this year . this include a 9 pm tv watershed for the advertising of less healthy food and drink product , and a restriction on pay - for online advertising of all these product . the Minister be give a very comprehensive response , and it be much appreciated . one of the thing I ask for in my speech — I know he will do this , but I think we could probably do it well — be to look at initiative in each of the region of Scotland , Northern Ireland or Wales that could complement the policy drive from here . be it the Minister ' s intention to do that with the regional Administrations ? the advertising regulation of course cover the whole of the United Kingdom , but this Labour Government have a good work relationship with the devolved government in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales . we have the intergovernmental ministerial meeting , and we have be liaise closely on a whole range of public health measure , include the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , directly with ministerial counterpart in the devolved government . I want that relationship to deepen and mature because that be good governance across the whole United Kingdom . we know that our chance of access healthy food depend on where people live . child live in less affluent area see five time more fast - food outlet on their high street . that be why it be so important that strengthen the new national planning policy framework . local authority now have clear power to block fast - food outlet near school , and also where child and young people congregate , to stop the relentless target of child and young people by the fast - food industry . make the healthy choice the easy choice be a major part of achieve our shift to prevention . we will continue to look at way to support people to make and sustain change in their diet in line with the Government ' s " Eatwell Guide " . this may be a good point at which to clarify our position on ultra - process food . there be concern association between ultra - process food and negative health outcome , include obesity . however , where the evidence be not yet clear be whether the negative health outcome be due to processing or to these product tend to be high in calorie , sugar , saturate fat and salt . I want to reassure hon . member across the House that many ultra - process food be already capture by the exist healthy eat advice , policy action and regulation relate to hfss food . our scientific advisory committee on nutrition continue to monitor the evidence on ultra - process food , and we will commission further research where need . in my last few minute , I will turn to a number of the issue that have be raise . first , just to reassure the shadow Minister , porridge oats will not be ban . the majority of porridge , muesli and granola product will not be affect by the restriction , but some less healthy version with add sugar , chocolate or syrup could be affect . to be in scope , product must fall within one of the category of food and drink set out in the schedule to the advertising regulation and be define as less healthy by the 2004 - 05 nutrient profiling model . for example , category include but be not limit to soft drink with add sugar , savoury snack such as crisp , breakfast cereal , confectionery , ice cream and pizza . despite recent medium report , the majority of porridge product will not be affect . the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold make a really important point about stigma , and he be absolutely right that we really have to tackle stigma . our genetic and our will power have not change in the last 50 year . what have change be the food environment and that we be bombard with marketing for unhealthy food . we already know that the issue be even bad in some of the poor community . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham and the hon . member for Caerfyrddin mention accessibility to healthy affordable food . no child should live in poverty ; that be why our ministerial taskforce be explore all lever available across Government to give child the good start in life . we will tackle food insecurity by roll out free breakfast club in every primary school and continue to provide free healthy food during the holiday for child who receive free school meal . it be really important that we continue with that . there be no silver bullet for obesity . this debate have show that obesity be not just about health ; it be about food , tax , education , business , employment , advertising and more . it be both a national challenge and a challenge within local community . our health mission be focus on shift towards a more preventive approach which will benefit this agenda . in addition the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have announce an ambitious new cross - Government food strategy to work with the food industry to deliver on our goal for food security , health , affordability and the environment . obesity be a hugely complex challenge , but tackle it be a key part of achieve the change need in this country . this Government be commit to take effective action and I look forward to update member on what we do next . I thank the Minister and all who have speak because this have be a genuinely interesting debate about an essential topic . I would just like to say in summary that the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) need to go into the supermarket when she be really busy and pick up a tasty healthy snack . if the Government can get people do that , it will be fantastic . I say to the Minister that the House be behind he be radical ; it be not the time for non - intervention . I thank all who have contribute . I miss supper and be starve , so I be go to go and have a healthy snack . hear , hear ! question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the impact of food and diet on obesity . business without Debate Finance Committee Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 6 ) ) , that Phil Brickell be discharge from the Finance Committee and Luke Akehurst be add . — ( Samantha Dixon , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) question agree to . Crewe Railway Station Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Chris Elmore . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to address this House on an issue that I be no strange to . I want to speak today to recognise the importance of Crewe railway station not just to my constituent , but to the entirety of Cheshire East , north - west England and the nation as a whole . Crewe station have be a linchpin of the UK rail network . it be one of the only train station in the country that provide 360 ° connectivity that be unparalleled in its scope and criticality to the region . the station have 12 platform , over 3 million passenger pass through annually , and more than 2 , 000 train use the station each week . it be incredible to look at the connection and destination we can travel to from Crewe . passenger can directly travel to Manchester , Liverpool , Birmingham , London , Cardiff , Glasgow , Edinburgh and countless other destination . one destination that people can not currently get to from Crewe be Middlewich in my constituency . Middlewich be about eight and a half mile from Crewe , and its population have increase by 1 , 000 over the past 10 year and now stand at around 14 , 500 . indeed , it be the large town in Cheshire without a railway station . do my hon . friend agree that as Network Rail review and renew the infrastructure around Crewe , provision need to be make for additional capacity for future service , include to Middlewich ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , who make a strong case for his constituent in Middlewich . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Chris Elmore . ) it be fair to say that the opportunity that open the station of Middlewich would present to the country and to Cheshire be exciting . Crewe station be a genuine strategic asset for local and national infrastructure . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this debate . do he not agree that to meet carbon target , connectivity be essential , and rail be need as an integrated part of that plan ? that , as well as subsequent upgrade to exist station and frequent bus link to rail station , all must be part of the net zero conversation . it would not be an Adjournment debate in this place without an intervention from the hon . Gentleman , and he be correct . I will go on to say a little more about the importance of rail to our climate objective . the significance of Crewe train station go beyond its enormous benefit to the rail network . it provide and have provide in its lifetime critical economic benefit . rise — rise — two at the same time . I will take my hon . friend first . my hon . friend often share that wait at Euston station , wait for the screen to turn from blue to green when get on the train to Crewe , which also stop at Atherstone in my constituency . my constituent in North Warwickshire and Bedworth have have to bear the brunt of the work dig the tunnel through from Birmingham to link HS2 to the north . do he agree that link the HS2 network all the way to Crewe be essential for open up economic prosperity to that area ? that will make the heartache worth while for my constituent . my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I completely agree that connect phase 1 of hs2 up to Crewe be crucial , if we be to see the real economic benefit of that project . I be grateful to the hon . member for secure this Adjournment debate , and he be speak well on this important topic . we be constituency neighbour , and while Crewe station be in his constituency , it provide vital transport link and an important boost to the local economy for many people live in my constituency . do he agree that Crewe station be in urgent need of upgrade and that , in the light of the cancellation of phase 2 of hs2 — assume that be happen — we have an opportunity to improve exist infrastructure , such as electrify the track between Crewe and Chester ? that would do so much to benefit my constituent and pave the way for the reopening of Beeston and Tarporley station . I thank the hon . member for that intervention and for bring the opportunity to work on a cross - party basis across Cheshire and the wide area to secure key benefit for our constituent . she be absolutely right to say that electrification of the line from Crewe to Chester would be transformative . it could deliver an additional £ 25 billion in gross value add and create more than 70 , 000 job over the next 20 year . those be crucial benefit . I have the pleasure of be the constituency neighbour of both my hon . friend and the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) . my hon . friend have touch on the community who benefit from Crewe station , include those from Madeley , Balterley and Betley , and many of my Newcastle - under - Lyme constituent use Crewe on a daily basis . indeed , when Avanti choose to mess up its timetable , I have to go to Crewe when I be go home . as my hon . friend have touch on HS2 , do he agree that rebuild trust will be really important ? many of my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme , as in Stoke - on - Trent South , have face the brunt of the failure of HS2 to date , and many people have wait many year for compensation . so as we look to have this conversation , trust and restore trust must be at its heart . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he be absolutely right to point out some of the negative impact of the hs2 project on his constituent and , indeed , some of my constituent . it be right that the Government have take the necessary step to get the mismanagement of the project under control . it be right that they continue to do that and fully engage with those negatively impact so far . as my hon . friend know , Stoke - on - Trent sit on an offshoot of the west coast main line and provide a vital east - west link between Crewe and Derby , which also require electrification . do he agree that previous HS2 plan severely reduce service through Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent , and that any future development must not negatively impact this vital region for growth ? my hon . friend make a really important point . that be why it be crucial that those of we who be impact by HS2 and the discussion around improve future rail infrastructure work together to get the good possible alternative plan on the table and be look at . I will make some progress . within my constituency , Crewe station have strong tie to engineering and advanced manufacturing firm such Bentley and Alstom in Crewe . in the surround region , many business exist because of the opportunity that Crewe railway station provide , enable supply chain and employment opportunity that would otherwise be out of reach and ensure the growth of local business . Crewe railway station serve as a vital node along the west coast main line , which connect London to the midland , the north - west and Scotland . approximately 75 % of all freight train that use the west coast main line pass through Crewe . again , that be testament to the paramount nature of the station . however , while I speak openly about the amazing thing that Crewe station offer to transport connectivity and our economy across the country , it be clear to both resident and expert that it face significant challenge . the catchment area around Crewe station be see rapid growth because of its connectivity to major economic centre in the UK . my constituent in Alsager , Holmes Chapel , Sandbach and the surround village either drive directly to Crewe or take train and transfer there . do my hon . friend agree that my constituent , like his , want more reliable journey through an improved station and , moreover , that well transport link could bring economic growth for passenger and other ? my hon . friend be quite correct , and do not let anybody tell hon . member that I secure the debate on narrow constituency interest . the fact that Crewe be such a central hub for connectivity mean that well connection from Crewe station mean well connection for people live in Sandbach , Holmes Chapel , Alsager and other , since they be largely travel via Crewe for major journey . [ interruption . ] indeed , Newcastle - under - Lyme as well . the challenge in term of Crewe station be significant . we see growth in population due to the station ' s link to those major economic centre . its platform be too few and too narrow to cope with project future demand . on top of that , the entrance have limited space , and there be often leak in the roof , which do not cover entire platform . indeed , we see an example of that on social medium just before Christmas when one of the roof cave in and there be water pour through the ceiling , which the staff have to collect in bucket . Crewe rightly boast of its position as a rail hub , but the condition of the station be ill befitting as a front door to a town with such a rich rail heritage . my hon . friend be be extremely generous in give way . he make an excellent point about the state of Crewe station . I have speak to business leader who have be consider invest in Cheshire but have be put off by the sheer dilapidation of the station . do he agree that , give that HS2 appear not to be come to Crewe , we must not wait to invest in the station and bring it up to a 21st century standard ? I agree . I describe the station as the front door to Crewe , but it be also the shop window for investment due to the rail heritage in the town . it be important that we use the station as an advert for job and investment across the town and the wide region . whether or not hs2 ultimately come to Crewe , that will be an important issue . the ability of Crewe station to act as a critical transport hub have be constrain by the challenge that I have describe . even Network Rail have identify the need to improve platform capacity and length to accommodate modern stock and address concern about accessibility and integration with other mode of transport . the challenge that crew station face to function effectively also limit capacity on the west coast main line , so its limitation have a cascade effect on the entire rail network , reduce reliability and increase journey time . the plan for hs2 would have see Crewe form a central cog in phase 2a , connect high - speed rail in Birmingham to the wide network as a key interchange . projection suggest that do so could support the creation of 100 , 000 job and provide billion to the regional economy in the short term , not to mention the logistical benefit for rail operator . it be no secret that my view be that the last Government botch the job , as they do in so many area . that leave many community across the north of England — perhaps none more so than the one I be proud to represent — demoralise and disillusion that they have be leave behind once again . the last government ' s decision have also mean that the modernisation of Crewe station have be put on hold , which raise even more question about its future . it be not just Crewe station but the rail infrastructure in our country that , unfortunately , be not up to standard . that will only be exacerbate as time tick on without crucial investment . I be thankful to Network Rail , alongside Siemens , for recently complete a £ 190 million overhaul of signal around the station over the Christmas period , for the benefit of the wide west coast main line . however , I truly believe that there be a need to go far . should the Government not commit to phase 2 , they should at least consider the many outstanding alternative that organisation have put forward , and the position of Crewe within those plan . project such as Growth Track 360 and the Midlands - North West rail link be two vital piece of work that recognise the need to invest in our railway for growth across the region , and Crewe feature as an integral part of both proposal . invest in rail go beyond the economic benefit , despite their substantial nature . it be also about address the climate crisis , get car and heavy good vehicle off the road and get modern electrify rail line to create a transport system that be fit for the future . in 2022 - 23 , rail contribute 1 . 3 % of the UK ' s total emission from transport , but represent a proportionately overwhelming 9 % of all passenger kilometre travel . furthermore , a journey from London to Glasgow by train use less than a third of the kilogram of co2 of petrol car , and around a sixth of the co2 of the equivalent journey by aeroplane . transport in total account for 27 % of all greenhouse gas emission — the large contributor in our society — and shift journey from road to rail can play a crucial role in the Government meet their climate target . rail travel be one of the most sustainable form of transport . by invest in Crewe , we can invest in the electrification of the line and a green future for local transport . I thank the House for listen to my speech and for listen to I sing the praise of my constituency ' s rail heritage . I offer my apology for bend the Minister ' s ear on the subject once again , but I truly believe that transport , particularly rail , will be a central part of any effort to boost economic growth in the north . I be certain that my constituency be ready and wait to play an active role in that . I firmly believe that Crewe station be a national treasure . despite the short - term constraint on public finance , which be absolutely clear and which I fully appreciate , I hope that minister see that , too . I gently urge the Government to recognise how critical this station could be for future infrastructure project and alternative to the northern leg of HS2 , which can bring vast benefit to regional economic growth and improvement both to rail connectivity and to infrastructure . the Government must take decisive action to secure the future of rail in our country . Crewe station have be the beat heart of our rail network for almost 200 year . I ask the Minister to ensure that that remain the case . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) on secure this debate . I thank he for continue to raise the importance of Crewe as a railway station . he never need to apologise for his advocacy . he be right that Crewe be and will remain a vital component of the rail network . after all , it be the opening of the railway station in 1837 that lead Crewe to develop from a small settlement to the proud railway town that it be today . my hon . friend be clearly not alone today in recognise the importance of Crewe railway station . I welcome contribution from a range of hon . member , include my hon . friend the Members for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) and for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) and the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) — not forget , of course , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . as my hon . friend set out , and as other member have confirm , Crewe station be now a crucial transport hub , provide 360 ° connectivity where four regional line converge with the west coast main line , provide long - distance link to London and Scotland and the great city of the midland and the north , as well as more local and regional link . I want to take a moment to raise the issue around Sandbach station . there be no accessibility at the station , which serve approximately 20 , 000 people . the only route to Manchester for Sandbach resident be to take a train to Crewe , where they can change accessibly — assume that everything be work — and then take a train back to Manchester . do the Minister agree that this need address ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to advocate for more accessible journey on the rail network , because we want everyone to be able to travel on our railway . I be sure that my official will have hear those comment , and I will convey they to my noble Friend Lord Hendy , the Rail Minister , as I be sure he will want to look at that . Crewe ' s location be strategically important to the railway , thank to the connectivity that it provide for passenger , freight and engineering service . no other UK station be serve by more individual train operator . with more than 470 service on a typical weekday , there be just 30 minute between the last train of the evening and the first of the following morning . it be not surprising to hear that since its opening it have form a critical part of the UK ' s transport infrastructure and will no doubt continue to do so for future generation . transport be an essential part of the Government ' s mission to rebuild Britain . for that reason , we commit to improve rail connectivity across the midland and the north while work with devolved leader , as we set out in our manifesto . the previous Government ' s decision to cancel phase 2 of HS2 be meet with huge disappointment by leader and community in Crewe and , frankly , a lot more widely . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme highlight , the previous Government ' s appalling mismanagement of HS2 have undermine trust in our ability to build new railway and perhaps in rail more broadly . for the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich , it mean the end of a decade of effort to plan the benefit that the new high - speed railway would have bring to the town . now , with the difficult position that this Government have inherit , our immediate focus be on the safe delivery of hs2 between Birmingham and London at the low reasonable cost . however , while we have be clear that we can not reverse the previous Government ' s decision to cancel phase 2 of HS2 , we recognise concern about rail capacity and connectivity between Birmingham and Manchester . we be consider a range of potential solution that will have to be carefully balance with the very difficult fiscal context in which we be operate . that could include optimise service , deliver small - scale infrastructure intervention or the proposal set out by the Mayor of Greater Manchester and the Mayor of the West Midlands for a new railway line between Birmingham and Manchester . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . may I urge she , as she seek to consider option on capacity , to ensure that there be real and meaningful engagement with the community that will be impact , as mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme and those in many other part of north Staffordshire have be ? without that real engagement , the trust that we talk about early simply can not be build . my hon . friend be absolutely right that the work to engage local community be vital as we develop future transport plan . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich for his passion in advocate for his constituency and ensure that any eventual decision take into account the role and need of Crewe station , which play such a vital role on the west coast main line . of course , there be other constituency that we need to consider , too . those will certainly be on the Government ' s mind as we consider different option . my colleague the Rail Minister have a very constructive meeting with Mayors at the end of last year ; he also meet my hon . friend to discuss Crewe ' s role in the proposal . do the Minister agree that decisiveness be the key to deliver rail service at a reasonable cost , rather than the continual escalation in cost that be a symptom of HS2 under the previous Government ? do she also agree that in look at connectivity between London and Manchester and increase capacity all the way along the west coast main line , the time to act be now , because there simply be not enough train to carry the passenger who need to travel in those direction ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the need for more capacity . the west coast main line be particularly constrain . what we know from the previous Government ' s approach be that constantly chop and change on a project be precisely the way to lead to an escalation in cost and delay to delivery . we do not want to repeat those mistake . there be little that I can share with the House at this stage about the future , but I can assure all hon . member that we will continue to take their view and those of local leader into consideration as we develop our plan . while we recognise the uncertainty that this period of review be cause local resident , it be important that we take the necessary time not only to get this right , but to learn lesson and ensure that there be no possibility of this Government ' s repeat the mistake that characterise the last Government ' s plan for major rail investment . where they fail so miserably , we be determine finally to deliver the benefit that local community expect . I assure all hon . member that this Government will not tolerate poor performance on our railway and that we will hold operator to account . the Minister be make an excellent speech . while she be look at the future connectivity plan , may I make a pitch that she should consider connectivity between Stoke - on - Trent and Manchester airport ? we do not currently have a direct service , but business leader in Staffordshire tell I that it would be huge for our growth potential . I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . I be sure that the Rail Minister will have hear he loud and clear and will consider the matter . in the meantime , while we consider the range of proposal that have be draw to my attention this evening , there be a clear need for intervention at Crewe station to address age asset . the Government have provide Network Rail with £ 44 . 1 billion for renewal , operation and maintenance in England and Wales for the period between 2024 and 2029 . in turn , Network Rail have develop a programme of intervention to deliver essential renewal in the Crewe area . I be pleased to assure hon . member that this work will include replacement of the station ' s roof and renewal of power system , signal and track asset such as switch and crossing . this be a significant programme amount to over £ 270 million , which need to be re - scope and re - plan at pace to follow the last government ' s decision to cancel phase 2 of hs2 . as the scope of the work develop , we will collaborate with Network Rail to identify any opportunity for investment above and beyond essential renewal . in parallel , official in the Department for Transport be already work with Cheshire East council on well integration between transport mode at Crewe , include road and rail . I reiterate that transport be an essential part of the Government ' s mission to rebuild Britain . Crewe have play and will continue to play a central role in our railway network . we will continue to work with hon . member , local leader and the community that they represent to ensure that we get the delivery of infrastructure project right . as I have say , I welcome this debate , because it be vital that we continue to discuss our transport project openly and transparently . I thank all hon . member for their contribution this evening and for their continue contribution as we work to deliver the railway network that our country require . question put and agree to . House adjourn .