business before Questions Independent Pornography Review Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of a report , date 27 February 2025 , entitle create a Safer World — the Challenge of regulate Online Pornography . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Video Games Industry : Gross Value add if she will make an assessment of recent trend in the gross value add of the video game industry . we recognise the recent challenge for the industry , and we be continue our support with the video game expenditure credit , provide £ 5 . 5 million for the UK game fund next year . the UK be home to some amazing company and developer , and we want to continue to support they as they grow and develop world - lead game . the Secretary of State be right : the video game industry be a great british success story . it contribute £ 6 billion a year to our economy and 73 , 000 job , many of which be outside London , from Dundee to Brighton — it really be right across our nation . however , there be grow concern that the UK be lose its competitive edge . our tax relief rate have drop below those of Ireland , France , Australia and Canada — all our big competitor in this sector . what be the Secretary of State do to really push the Treasury to ensure that our video game expenditure credit and everything else be up to date so that we retain our competitive edge in this vital sector ? the hon . Lady will know that there have be a global slowdown in the video game industry as a whole . that be one of the reason why we have step up to provide additional support . we always keep our tax relief regime under review and we be aware that this be an intensely competitive area — not just in video game , but in film , tv and other area . the video game industry be part of a wide ecosystem that need support , and we be determined to provide the full support we can so that our industry can thrive . Television industry : Wales what step her Department be take to support the television industry in Wales . I be glad to say that we have a thriving tv industry in Wales . we have not only our own broadcaster , S4C , but phenomenal studio , include Dragon Studios just outside my constituency , where " Willow " be produce with the magnificent Warwick Davis . and , above all , we have " Gavin and Stacey " . I know that it be completely out of order , Mr Speaker , but can I say thank you to Dawn in the Tea Room , who be retire today ? Diolch , Mr Llefarydd . only 41 . 9 % of my constituency of Caerfyrddin have gigabit availability , compare with the UK average of 78 . 5 % . in fact , 2 . 6 % of my constituency have very little broadband at all . while more and more people use on - demand and internet - base tv service , many still have to rely on terrestrial tv to watch their favourite Welsh programme . will the Minister support the tv industry in Wales and reassure viewer in my constituency that broadcast tv will remain available for they all to enjoy ? the series will be over . I think it be a three - part series , Mr Speaker . I commend the hon . Lady on manage to get gigabit - capable broadband , which be my other responsibility as a Department for Science , Innovation and Technology Minister , into this session . we be determined to try to make sure that across her constituency , everybody be able to take part in the digital future . incidentally , that be why we publish a digital inclusion strategy yesterday , which I very much hope all member will support . Electronic Travel Authorisations : tourism what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of the cost of electronic travel authorisation on inbound tourism . we be absolutely determined to reach our goal of 50 million international visitor to the UK by 2030 . I be very hopeful that the electronic travel authorisation system will be simple and make it easy and safe for people to visit the UK in the come year . our travel , tourism and hospitality sector continue to face huge challenge , yet the Home Office ' s own impact assessment of the 60 % increase in electronic travel authorisation fee conclude that it could reduce the number of tourist want to come here and result in a loss of revenue to the wide economy of £ 734 . 7 million over five year . if the Government be to succeed in achieve the inbound tourism target of 50 million by 2030 , would an agreement between the EU and the UK to facilitate easy travel not be a good place to start ? I be absolutely delighted that even the Liberal Democrats be cite our target of 50 million international visitor by 2030 ; we have get that into this session three time now . the hon . Lady be right — of course we have to bear in mind all the issue that could affect those number . I do not know whether she have see the recent video produce by VisitBritain , " star GREAT Britain " , which include film clip from James Bond , Tom Cruise and many other , but we be determined , through the visitor economy advisory council , to make sure that we reach those number . we will work with the Home Office to try to mitigate the problem that we may have . I call the shadow Minister . accord to VisitBritain , the estimate value of inbound tourism in 2024 will be in the region of £ 31 . 5 billion , so it be a huge economic contributor to the United Kingdom . when speak to tourism business that rely on seasonal tourism , alongside the rise cost of ETAs , they express great concern that the reduction in national insurance threshold and the rise in employer national insurance contribution mean that many more worker will be catch in a damaging tax trap . it will mean that business have to reconsider how many people — many of they young , and many of they in their first job — they can employ while remain profitable . do the Minister have an impact assessment of the effect of those NI rise , and what do it say about how many job will be create or lose as a result of labour ' s job tax trap ? one of the problem with the Conservatives be that they want we to endlessly spend more money on thing , but they do not want to find the money that enable we to afford that expenditure . there be lot of thing that affect the tourism industry in the UK — incidentally , I think the hon . Gentleman mistake his million for his billion in what he say — but it be really important that we look at how we can extend the season in the UK and make sure that more international visitor do not just come to London and the south - east , but go to place across the whole of the United Kingdom . that be precisely the kind of thing that I hope we will be able to incorporate into our national tourism strategy this autumn . it will be the first time that the UK have ever have one . Football Clubs : financial Sustainability what step she be take to help improve the sustainability of low league football club in Wolverhampton West constituency . what step she be take to help improve the financial sustainability of english football club . we be proud to have introduce the Football Governance Bill , which will establish an independent football regulator to protect the financial sustainability of english football club , and we recognise the key role that low league football club play at grassroots level . give the financial challenge face by low league football club such as AFC Wulfrunians in my constituency of Wolverhampton West , which also have an excellent boxing gym cater to the local community , can the Secretary of State confirm what step the Government be take to ensure that club such as AFC Wulfrunians have access to sustainable funding model to secure their long - term financial stability , so that they can continue to foster community relationship , increase local engagement and develop young talent within our community ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he have do in support his local club . across all sport , Sport England invest over £ 57 , 000 in Wolverhampton West in 2023 - 24 . the Government be commit to continue to support local club through investment in the multi - sport grassroot facility programme , as well as through Sport England , which invest over £ 250 million of lottery and Government funding each year . the Sport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , be kind enough to meet I and read football club fan last year to discuss the urgent need for an independent football regulator . since then , the legislation have be hold up in the other place by conservative peer , and I be appal to hear that the Leader of the Opposition see an independent regulator as " a waste of money " . fan and staff in Reading will be able to tell the Secretary of State the importance of the need for a regulator , so will she visit the stadium in my constituency to meet they in person ? I would be delighted to support my hon . friend as she continue to fight the good fight for football fan in her constituency . like she , I be appal by the Leader of the Opposition ' s comment . the independent football regulator begin life under the last government ; it be in the conservative manifesto , it be in our manifesto , and we be elect to deliver it on behalf of million of football fan . I very much hope that the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) will disassociate himself from the Leader of the Opposition ' s appal comment . it be a serious matter that the Sport Minister have have to apologise to people run club in the most popular league in the world , after write an article say that critic of the football regulator be " promote untruth " . will the Secretary of State now engage actively and constructively with the people run football , and explain why the Government have repeatedly reject proposal in the other place to impose a growth duty on the regulator ? both the Sport Minister and I meet every premier league club and Premier League executive on a regular basis , and we have a very constructive relationship with they , include on pursue the Government ' s no . 1 mission , which be to grow our economy after 14 year of stagnant economic growth and decline . I say gently to the hon . Gentleman that the Government be always happy to clarify who our comment be intend towards , as we be in this instance , but if he seriously think that it be acceptable for Conservative Front Benchers to extinguish the hope of million of football fan who be make promise by his party that it never deliver on , he might want to explain that to football fan in his own constituency . woman ' s football club earn a small fraction of the revenue of man ' s team , so the financial gap between man ' s and woman ' s football continue to be a barrier to growth . after the fantastic performance by the Lionesses to beat the world champion Spain at Wembley last night , what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that continue investment be available to make woman ' s sport more established , accessible and sustainable ? the Sport Minister have meet the Football Association this week to discuss the woman ' s game and to promote the campaign to support woman ' s football . we , like the hon . Lady , have be absolutely inspire by the success of the Lionesses , but more importantly , it have inspire young girl in every part of this country to come forward and want to take part in football . that be why we be invest in grassroots sport facility to make sure that they get every bit as much opportunity not just to dream big , but to have a plan to get there . Grassroots Sport Clubs and Facilities what plan her Department have to increase access to grassroots multi - sport facility . what step her Department be take to help support grassroots sport club in London . what step her Department be take to help support grassroots sport facility . this Government recognise the value and importance of grassroots sport club in London and across the country , and the role that their facility play in get people active . Sport England invest more than £ 250 million of lottery and Government funding each year in the community that need it most . on top of that , our multi - sport grassroot facility programme have invest £ 123 million across the UK this year . Haverfordwest County AFC be a fantastic football club in the wonderful constituency of Mid and South Pembrokeshire . the club work with local school to facilitate football session for all pupil , and it provide a healthy breakfast and lunch for participant . it also run a fantastic walk football club . will the Minister outline what the Labour Government be do to support the work of our brilliant local club , such as Haverfordwest County AFC , in make sport more accessible ? will she join I in wish Haverfordwest County the good of luck for the rest of the season ? first , I pay tribute to Haverfordwest County AFC and the many grassroots club across the country for their important work in make sport accessible to community . the Government be commit to continue to support local club through investment in the multi - sport grassroot facility programme . I join my hon . friend in wish Haverfordwest County AFC the very good of luck with the rest of the season . my fantastic local football club , Sutton United , provide excellent opportunity in grassroots sport through its junior , woman and disabled team , and it even have a walk football club for those of we , Mr Speaker , who need a gentler pace of play . however , it tell I that it desperately need access to more training facility to ensure there be year - round football for all player . the training pitch the club use in the local park be often waterlogge and unusable . will the Minister support Sutton United in secure a new all - weather pitch ? will she meet I and the club to discuss potential source of funding to make that a reality ? those be issue that I have hear in my own constituency . I would be delighted to meet he and will perhaps set up a meeting with the Football Foundation too . last week , I meet the fantastic Thorne Colliery club in my constituency of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , which be work with the Football Foundation on potential investment for its pitch , which be base on the Moorends welfare site . while that be a fantastic example of the support available for grassroots facility , many club still face uncertainty due to governance and financial challenge . will the Minister outline what step be be take to ensure that football governance reform provide great security for grassroots club and the facility that they rely on ? I agree with my hon . friend that local grassroots club have a crucial part to play in deliver wide societal benefit , foster social cohesion and build a strong sense of local identity . the Football Association be responsible for good governance at this level , and its new grassroots strategy , launch in the autumn , look to set club up for success . we should be support sport facility across the United Kingdom . the last Conservative Government provide the Scottish Football Association with more than £ 20 million to build and improve football facility between 2021 and 2025 . do the Government have any plan to invest far in grassroots football in Scotland ? I have outline the funding that this Government be invest . I look forward to visit Scotland very soon , and I meet my counterpart there regularly . I call the shadow Secretary of State . one year ago today , I announce that the Conservative Government be invest a furth £ 120 million into the multi - sport grassroot facility programme for that year , build on the £ 186 million we have already invest over three year . today , the Minister have claim that it be this Government who be make that same investment . in reality , this Government be scrap the £ 57 million opening school facility programme , and uncertainty remain around more than half a billion pound of funding from the primary school PE and sport premium , the holiday activity fund and the school game organiser network . will the Minister tell we what the Labour Government be actually do to support grassroots sport ? as I have state , £ 123 million have be invest across the UK this year . that have lead to the building or upgrading of 637 facility to date . Creative Industries what step her Department have take to help support creative industry in Loughborough constituency . what step her Department have take to help support creative industry in Bradford . the creative industry be one of the industrial strategy ' s eight priority sector , and they play a critical role in drive growth across the country . in January , we name West Yorkshire as a creative industry priority region , with funding to be devolve to support growth in the region . that be a sign of our belief in West Yorkshire and the role that it have play , and will continue to play , in the heritage , culture , art and cultural life of our nation . local theatre , art centre and gallery enrich our life and our local economy . each job in the creative sector create two elsewhere in our local economy . in my constituency of Loughborough , we be build the Generator , an art and community hub , restore a disuse building to do so . I could not be prouder of the people who have make that happen , include Jill Vincent , a local alderwoman and former councillor ; Jonathan Hale ; the late Kev Ryan ; and many other . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate they on get the project go , and will she come and visit I when the Generator open later this year ? if she do come , I will buy she a pint — I have about 60 leave on my tour . Mr Speaker , you will know that I have never willingly turn down a pint , so my hon . friend tempt I with his offer . I congratulate he on the work that he be do to support cultural life in his constituency . last week , we announce the Arts Everywhere fund in memory of the legacy of Jennie Lee , who be the first ever Arts Minister ; 60 year ago this year , she publish the UK ' s first ever art White Paper . we have provide £ 85 million for precisely the infrastructure that my hon . friend describe . it be leave to crumble under the last government , but we be determined to support it . I thank the Secretary of State for her early response . this year , Bradford be the UK city of culture . this be a fantastic opportunity to show off the creative talent of our wide district , include the Shipley constituency , and it could be the springboard for unleash the economic potential of our city and area , which for too long have be unrecognised . can the Secretary of State assure I that the Government will help to secure the legacy of Bradford 2025 and support our creative industry to fuel economic growth ? may I say to my hon . friend what a delight it be to visit her constituency with she , and to celebrate Bradford be the city of culture with Mayor Tracy Brabin and other recently in Bradford ? my hon . friend will know that we have commit £ 15 million for Bradford 2025 . as part of that , we expect 6 , 000 training opportunity and 6 , 500 job to be create . I be sick and tired of see job create in part of the country where child just down the road can no more dream of go to the moon than of get those job . that be why we be invest in young people and the next generation so that they can become the storyteller of the next chapter of this country . in a statement release two month ago , the Government claim that Bradford city of culture will generate £ 700 million of growth for the district by 2030 , and that 6 , 500 new job will be create . about £ 40 million of taxpayer ' money have already be allocate to Bradford city of culture . forty million pound be , of course , the same as the financial black hole that Bradford council face as it cut service to child with special educational need and sell off local asset . the Centre for Cities say that the Government have massively overstate the economic benefit that be the city of culture bring . in the interest of transparency , will the Secretary of State release the impact assessment that be make to reach the £ 700 million figure and the job growth that they say will be create ? as the hon . Gentleman should know , the impact assessment be do under the last Government . I be slightly confused : be he against the city of culture , or do he just think that Bradford do not have a full contribution to make to this country ' s cultural life ? we believe in Bradford . we believe in its people , its history , its heritage and what it can contribute to the UK in the future . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . much like Loughborough and Bradford , Chichester be a city that punch well above its weight with its creative and cultural offering . much of the local authority funding that support organisation in my constituency — such as Chichester festival theatre , the Pallant House gallery and the Novium museum — come via the district council . local government reorganisation put such funding stream at risk , especially when combine with an authority that be struggle with the cost of , for example , social care and highway . what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that these vital organisation be protect during this reorganisation ? we be in touch with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that we be absolutely join up in our approach . early this week , I meet mayor from across the city region and I also recently meet the Local Government Association to ensure that every part of the country , include the hon . member ' s incredible city , receive the full benefit of the work we be do in government . I call the shadow Secretary of State . artificial intelligence be a significant innovation , but our medium and creator be innovator , too . almost the entirety of those in the creative sector say that Government proposal be not fit for purpose . they would allow AI company to scrape content without creator get pay . UKAI have say that labour ' s plan would damage public confidence in the AI industry and hinder the industry . in that light , will the Secretary of State admit that the Government ' s approach to AI and copyright be a mess and that Government proposal be not fit for purpose ? be she as disappointed as I be that the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology admit on the radio this morning that he have not even meet those in the creative sector ? I can tell the shadow Secretary of State that I and my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , who be also a joint Minister in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , meet those in the creative industry regularly . we be crystal clear that the creative industry have be power the british economy for decade , and as our future economy move towards high consumption , the creative industry will be even more critical to our future success . I also say gently to the shadow Secretary of State that this be an issue his government fail to grip for a long time . we be deliver certainty through a copyright regime that provide creator with real control and transparency , and that help they to license their content , while support AI developer to access high - quality material so that they can train lead AI model in the UK . we be work with our fantastic creative industry to get that balance right . we be not prepared to do what his government do for 14 year , which be to leave this country with uncertainty , drift and low economic growth . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . tour performer contribute hugely to the creative industry , but , sadly , Best for Britain estimate that , since Brexit , the number of UK performer tour in the EU have fall by a third . Elton John and David Furnish back the Cut the Red Tape campaign , which ask for an exemption to the trade and co - operation agreement . tour performer be " still stand " , but they should not be ask to make a sacrifice impose by the previous Government ' s fail Brexit deal . will Ministers show I that they do not have " a cold , cold heart " by agree to meet I and representative of the campaign , and will they promise I that it will not be " a long , long time " before tour performer get the support they deserve ? I be plead with minister : " Don ' t go break my heart " . all I can say be that the hon . Member be lucky that I be answer this question , not my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore , or we would be here for several hour . my hon . friend meet the EU commissioner on precisely this issue yesterday . we firmly believe that close co - operation with our friend and ally across the European Union be not just in our interest , but in their interest , and we be seek close agreement on this issue . small Theatres and Performing Arts venue what step her Department be take to support small theatre and perform art venue . we be absolutely committed to support small and large theatre across the UK . it be one reason why we have specifically announce capital funding , as the Secretary of State have say , of £ 85 million for theatre and other cultural infrastructure across the UK . I thank the Minister for that response . in my constituency , formerly represent by the great Jennie Lee , the council - own theatre and museum be due to close in just two month ' time . passionate member of our community have come together to form the Cannock Chase Theatre Trust and the Chase Heritage CIC to save these precious venue . will the Minister join I in thank those group for all their effort , and will he set out how the Government be support such community group to take on culture and heritage venue at risk ? I commend my hon . friend and all those who have engage as volunteer to try to take over the theatre and run it in an effective way . I look forward to the first production ; after all , " the play ' s the thing " — I see " Hamlet " last week , and " Richard II " twice . the most important thing be that we try to ensure that young people have an opportunity to act and have a creative education in their school , and that there be local theatre and other venue where they be able to see really high - quality live entertainment , such as in the theatre he be talk about . I be very happy to ensure that official meet his volunteer . on Monday , I meet the director of Salisbury playhouse . she warmly welcome the £ 85 million creative foundation fund , which she think would be highly applicable to Salisbury playhouse , one of the few produce theatre in the south - west . she also tell I about the 5 , 600 local child who be give subsidised ticket up to Christmas , and about her commitment to go out and raise fund from local investor in the art . will the Minister ensure that the value of the £ 85 million be maximise by combine it with visionary leader like Rosa Corbishley at Salisbury playhouse , who will go out and get more money for the art in our community ? the right hon . Gentleman use to be in the Treasury , so he be very good at make financial bid and I think he have just make a bid on behalf of Salisbury ' s theatre . we warmly commend the work it be do . as I have say , it be brilliant if we can get lot of kid come into theatre . I want every single child , as part of their education , to be able to see live theatre and live music , because that be a part of what stir their creative opportunity in life . yes , we be look at whether there be other way of bring in not only commercial money but philanthropic money to try to match - fund the funding that can come from government . formula 1 : 75th anniversary whether her Department plan to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Formula 1 . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Formula 1 and motor sport , the hon . Member be a keen supporter of motor sport in the UK , and I pay tribute to he for all his work . last month , I meet with Formula 1 , and I congratulate it on its 75th anniversary . formula 1 be a world championship , but it be a predominantly british success story . would the good way for the Government to join its 75th anniversary celebration not be to get behind the effort of Susie Wolff and other to get more woman into the sport , and to back the Hamilton Commission in get more people from more diverse background to participate in motor sport at all level ? I pay tribute again to the hon . gentleman for all his work . the milestone provide an excellent opportunity to reflect on the sport ' s long history in the UK and the huge contribution that it make . I echo and agree with his comment about diversity . F1 also have a significant economic impact . seven out of 10 Formula 1 team be base in the UK , collectively generate £ 1 . 9 billion in turnover in 2022 . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since the House last meet , we have be delighted to announce £ 270 million of funding to breathe life into our art , culture and heritage institution across the country . we have make significant progress on the Football Governance Bill in the other place , which be bring hope to million of football fan . we be celebrate a wealth of british talent , from the BAFTAs to the Brits , and we will shortly announce the big national conversation with young people in every part of the country , which will inform the first national youth strategy in over a decade . may I tempt the Minister on a voyage to a far - off island ? St Kilda be almost 50 mile off the coast of Lewis , and it come within my constituency and within the Minister ' s remit as one of those rare thing , a UNESCO double world heritage site . will the Minister meet I and representative of the Uig community in Lewis who want to build a global interpretation centre , a template for remote view these vulnerable site ? the meeting could be here in Whitehall , in Uig in Lewis , or on St Kilda . I would be absolutely delighted to come to St Kilda . I think there be quite a lot of member who would quite like to send I to St Kilda for a very prolonged period . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] it be nice to unite the House , isn ' t it ? you ' re so cruel ! my hon . friend make a very important point . the archipelago of St Kilda be unique . since the last 36 people leave in 1930 , it have be run by the National Trust . as he say , it be a double UNESCO world heritage site and we want to ensure that we make the good of it — it be topical folk , thank you . I call the shadow Minister . at the end of last year , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the hon . member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) state the importance of greyhound race to the nation ' s culture and economy , but last week labour in Wales announce its intention to ban greyhound race as soon as practicably possible . will the Secretary of State tell we who she agree with , her Sport Minister or the Deputy First Minister , and will she make clear whether she be plan to ban greyhound race across the UK ? I can answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question directly : I agree with the Sports Minister . we have absolutely no plan whatsoever to ban greyhound racing . we appreciate the joy it bring to many , many people in our country and the economic contribution it make . Dumbarton football club in my constituency be now in administration . found in 1872 , it be in the scottish first division and be at the heart of our community in Dumbarton . the club , player , staff , the Sons ' Supporters Trust and local business be all pull together to keep our historic football club alive . what help can the Minister and our Government offer to improve financial sustainability for low league football club across the UK ? have be through my own club , Wigan Athletic , go into administration in recent year , my heart absolutely go out to my hon . friend and all the fan work together to try to save a social asset that mean so much to people in the community . I wish he every success . he will know that sport be a devolved matter and that the football regulator will apply only to english club , but we will work with the Scottish Government on good practice to help , support and sustain club across the United Kingdom . unlike the previous Government , we seek a respectful and constructive relationship with the Scottish Government — we think that be in the interest of his constituent . Swim England have an opportunity to allocate an underspend in the swimming pool support fund to project - ready pool such as Eastbourne Sovereign Centre , where I learn to swim . however , it have say that the current policy of two intervention per site be prevent it from do so . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss change this policy before the fund expire this year , so that the Sovereign Centre be in with a shot ? we would be happy to look at the hon . Gentleman ' s specific case , if he want to supply the Department with detail . the maximum of two intervention be an important principle to ensure that the maximum number of community feel the benefit of the funding we be able to award . he will know that the Sovereign Centre in Eastbourne have be award £ 91 , 000 in funding as part of phase 2 of our swimming pool support fund . if he send I the detail , I will ensure that we take that seriously . alongside our theatre and museum , which I mention early , Cannock also have brilliant small music venue , such as the Station , all of which give our bud actor , museum curator and musician a foot on the ladder . however , we still long for the opportunity that be open to child in other part of the country . will the Minister set out what discussion he have have with colleague on route into creative sector for our young people ? yesterday I meet people from LIVE , and we be still very keen on try to ensure that there be a levy on arena ticket to make provision for small music venue across the UK . that be where most young people will have their first experience of live music . we be determined to get there as soon as possible . I would just like to correct the record , Mr Speaker . I say early that the £ 85 million would apply across the whole of the UK . I be wrong , of course — it be only England . More money for we . four year ago , the StAnza poetry festival experience difficulty bring EU creative over to perform in St Andrews , and those issue still exist . I note the Secretary of State ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , but more than warm word be need . when will we see a timescale on improve the situation ? as the Secretary of State refer to , I have that conversation yesterday , and I think a lot of people in the European Union and Commission be keen to reset their relationship with the UK , in particular in this regard . I will not name the European Minister , but when I sit down opposite he and ask , " what ' s the most important thing I can do for you ? " , he reply , " get I ticket for Oasis . " I think it be very important that people be able to see our great musician tour across the whole of Europe . one thousand musical act from Annie Lennox to Zero 7 have release an album of blank track , which be where they feel the text and datum mining exception be lead . will my right hon . and hon . friend look into this , so that great british creativity be not replace with AI butchery ? I think Kate Bush be run up that hill , too . look , the truth of the matter be , as I have say many time , that we will not progress in this area unless we be absolutely certain that we will secure more licensing of content by british creative , rather than less . that be absolutely key to what would be success for we . I hope that people will take we at face value on that . Mr Speaker , I be afraid that I do not have a song title to go with this question . [ " oh , no ! " ] Bath council ' s spend on youth service have decline by 82 % since 2010 , accord to a recent ymca report . with the cancellation of the National Citizen Service , can the Minister tell we whether the money will be reallocate to support new service in area such as mine ? we be astonish when we take office back in July to discover that there be no national youth strategy to help shape and grip the challenge face a generation . we be determined to change that . we have move at pace to set up the youth steering group that be imminently launch a consultation . it will be the big conversation that we have ever have with this nation ' s young people . we be also allocate more than £ 85 million - worth of capital funding to create welcome space for young people through the new Better Youth Spaces fund . I can assure the hon . Lady that the young people remain our top priority . rise — order ! look , I can not get people in . I have all these people who wish to ask a question . football club be far more than 90 minute of entertainment on match day ; they be also powerful engine of community outreach , which provide a lifeline for vulnerable people . in the Buckingham and Bletchley constituency , Milton Keynes Dons Sport and Education Trust offer a variety of programme for those battle dementia or who have suffer from brain trauma or stroke . can the Secretary of State explain to the House how the Football Governance Bill will help the ability of club to continue provide those programme ? may I say how grateful I be to my hon . friend for his support not just for his local club , but for the Football Governance Bill that this Government have introduce ? the Bill will ensure financial sustainability in the game , put fan back at the heart of decision that be make about their own club , and ensure that fit and proper owner be in charge of these vital social asset . final question . we hear about the financial crisis face football early , but there be also one face Rugby Football Union . no one like the RFU , not least because of the whopping bonus that it hand out . can the Secretary of State please let I know what conversation she be have internally about the crisis face English rugby in this country ? my hon . friend the sport Minister have recently meet representative from the Rugby Football Union . we appreciate that there be serious challenge in this area and we be determined to grip they . I be sorry , that be all that we can get in . I suggest that member get on to the Government , because I really think that , with so many people want to contribute , we need an hour for these question . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Rural Parishes what assessment the Church of England have make of the contribution of rural parish . the Church of England have more than 10 , 000 church in our town and village in rural area . in addition to their regular process of prayer and worship , parish church play an important role in the life of our rural community . in my constituency of Bridlington and the Wolds , rural parish face huge financial pressure to maintain their historic church building . their cost often run into ten of thousand , yet they receive no funding from the Church of England or the Government . the Church of England ' s building comprise more than 50 % of the country ' s list building , but all the money need to maintain they have to be raise locally . this maintenance will soon be beyond the ability of our local church in rural area , so will the hon . Lady make representation to the Church of England to ensure that there be more financial support for local church so that we save this wonderful part of our heritage ? I congratulate the hon . member on be a true champion for his constituency and also for the need for additional resource that will ensure that our church can truly stand the test of time . I shall certainly raise these issue and write to he about what step he can take at a local level . it be also worth point out that represent rural community and diocese , bishop do meet regularly on a quarterly basis to look at good practice and other way that they can support their diocese well . list place of Worship Grant Scheme what discussion the Church have have with the Government on the extension of the list place of worship grant scheme . what assessment the Church have make of the potential implication for its policy of the level of funding available from the list place of worship grant scheme in 2025 - 26 . as I set out in Church Commissioner question in January , the list place of worship scheme be an effective way to deliver transformational benefit to local community . the Government ' s extension of the scheme be very welcome , but there be a number of unanswered question about the impact of the change to the scheme . the extension of the scheme will be welcome news to those involve with church such as St Botolph ' s in Aspley Guise in Mid Bedfordshire . People there have tell I of their concern about the lack of certainty for long - term project that may need support beyond 12 month . will the Church Commissioner join I and other colleague in press the Chancellor to provide long - term funding certainty ? the hon . Member have raise this issue at Church Commissioner question previously , and he be right to continue to do so . although the scheme be be extend until March 2026 , we do not have a long - term plan or solution . it be only right that the Government should set out their plan . we know that in large - scale project cost over £ 125 , 000 , not all the vat can be return . it be important that the Department for Culture , Media and Sport come up with a solution to ensure that the list place of worship scheme can continue . Holy Trinity church in Sunningdale have serve the parish for 185 year . it want to build on that legacy with a community hub , complete with new facility , include a volunteer - run caf é for the wide community . the £ 25 , 000 cap on vat relief may be enough to sustain small project , but this one will cost well over £ 1 million ; that mean that another £ 250 , 000 in donation will be need , which can not stretch that far . I understand that the Government be encourage church to apply for lottery funding , but Rev . Jon Hutchinson have raise the fact that the scope of that funding be too narrow to cover the project . will the Second Church Estates Commissioner meet I to discuss how we can get this project over the line ? the hon . Member make an important point , and raise an issue that affect many church . the £ 25 , 000 cap work for small project , but it will not go far enough for large project , such as the one in his constituency . the church that I attend , Holy Trinity in Clapham , be experience similar challenge . I be happy to meet he . the capping of the list place of worship grant scheme have leave many church in physical ruin , such as the Belfrey in York , which will lose £ 1 . 5 million , even though it have do everything that be expect of it . clearly , we need to find a solution , and the suggestion from Government have be insufficient . will my hon . friend ensure that the Church Commissioners co - ordinate a meeting of all church that be mid - project , to ensure that they can complete the work that they have undertake ? I will take my hon . friend ' s question back to see if we can set up a meeting . as she highlight , many church will be miss out on vital fund to carry out necessary repair , particularly those that have already start work . if that work extend beyond the March 2026 deadline , they will not be able to reclaim any vat . it be important that we find a long - term solution . I will be happy to take that forward . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — Portcullis House what step the Commission be take to ensure that Portcullis House be function effectively . official be work to ensure that Portcullis House continue to function effectively . project and maintenance be under way on heating , cooling and ventilation , and to upgrade equipment that be reach the end of its life . there be plan maintenance of toilet and will be more regular cleaning of they , and there will be refurbishment of lift and escalator , and improvement to lighting and blind in member ’ office . work be also under way on a long - term solution for the PCH roof . lift that do not work , toilet that do not flush , tap that do not work , leak in the roof , heat that leave room either too hot or cold , and escalator that break down — by any standard , Portcullis House be not work as it should . my concern be not for right hon . and hon . member , but the staff who work for we in Portcullis House . it be clear that it be no long fit for purpose . can we have a further update from the House of Commons Commission on its work to make Portcullis House fit for the 21st century ? I be really glad that the hon . Member have shine light on this important topic . there be much wear and tear in Portcullis House . on Tuesday of this week , the Administration Committee tour Portcullis House , look at the nut and the bolt hold the building together . we have ask officer to please come forward with a plan of action for the Commission to consider , in order to improve service in that lovely building in both the short and long term and make it a much well place for we all to work in . I will come back to he on his question . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — cathedral : local Economic Contribution what recent estimate the Church have make of the contribution of its cathedral to local economy . the right hon . member be a true champion of cathedral , and particularly the one in his constituency . it be a pleasure to meet he to explore issue that he have raise . research by the Association of English Cathedrals have show that cathedral ' 9 . 5 million visitor contribute around £ 235 million in additional expenditure to cathedral and local business . I understand that Salisbury cathedral , in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , feature in nearly nine in 10 visit by tourist to Salisbury . I thank the hon . Lady for her reply . I want to make she aware of a cross - party group that have be set up in Parliament , support by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , the hon . member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , and other who represent cathedral city . we want to help the Second Church Estates Commissioner by provide great evidence of the economic contribution of cathedral . the first world war centenary cathedral repair fund help many cathedral , include Salisbury . I hope that she will consider make representation for the creation of something similar to support our cathedral in future . nobody can deny that work cross - party be one of the good way to get thing do , so I be happy to support the right hon . member and other in their endeavour . I be also happy to meet the group . Newcastle ' s beautiful cathedral be an important part of our economic life , as well as our cultural and religious life , but it receive very little funding from the Church of England and do not benefit from any significant endowment or property ownership , unlike other cathedral . with 80 % of England ' s cathedral predict to post budget deficit , what discussion have the Second Church Estates Commissioner have with the Church of England regard the financial sustainability of cathedral ? as I say , the Church of England meet regularly to look at the impact of cost on cathedral , and I be happy to write to my hon . friend about the issue . Church of Scotland : decline congregation if the commissioner will have discussion with their counterpart in the Church of Scotland on support for place of worship with decline congregation . the pastoral and closed church department of the Church Commissioners have recently consult with the Church of Scotland on the experience of manage parish and small congregation . Scotland ' s Churches Trust estimate that the Church of Scotland could lose 30 % of its church in the come year . St Andrew ' s in Clermiston in my constituency could be one of they . it celebrate its 70th anniversary this year , but could face closure because of decline congregation and low income . that threaten a valuable community space that be particularly use by vulnerable and elderly people . can the Second Church Estates Commissioner outline how the Church of England could work with the Church of Scotland to share good practice on manage church with small congregation to preserve those valuable community space ? the National Church Institutions and the Church of Scotland sign the Columba declaration , commit to joint dialogue on a range of issue . I understand that they meet regularly to discuss these issue . it might be useful for she to reach out to the Church of Scotland on that , and if she be unable to do so , I be happy to put she in touch with it . Diocese of Jerusalem what support the Church be provide to the diocese of Jerusalem , in the context of the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . the situation in Gaza and the west bank be devastating , and the Church continue to support the diocese of Jerusalem through prayer , financial assistance and advocacy . the archbishop ' s appeal for the diocese continue to provide much - need support for Church organisation and body , whether that be in Gaza or the west bank . on the west bank and in Jerusalem , the security situation and the economic condition be worsen , with increase violence and a decline in the number of pilgrim visit . that have lead to a rise level of emigration , as many Christians leave the Holy Land , where generation before they have live . will my hon . friend outline the work the Church be do to assist the diocese in support its dwindle congregation in these difficult time ? there be no safe place on the west bank , include in East Jerusalem , for Palestinians . the attack on the christian community there be focus on seize land and property , and have be increase in recent month , with armenian church bear the brunt . the christian community face a co - ordinate and aggressive move to drive these live stone of our faith to leave the region . bishop have frequently visit the region over the past 16 month ; they have regularly meet the Archbishop of Jerusalem to discuss how good they can help the diocese to respond to the many appalling attack . it be important that we hold up the people of Palestine in prayer for their safety and security . violence be not the answer to any of this . a year and a half ago , I meet the Archbishop of Jerusalem . he outline some of the thing the Church be do on education , job , and opportunity for young people to do apprenticeship . those thing can only happen if there be money available . what discussion have the Church Commissioner have with the Archbishop and the Church on help to retain young people in Jerusalem ? I mention fund in my response to my hon . friend the Member for Edmonton and Winchmore Hill ( Kate Osamor ) . I can certainly write to the hon . Gentleman about the discussion that have take place with the Archbishop of Jerusalem , if he would find that helpful . Church Organs : Legislative Protection whether the Church have make an assessment of the potential merit of specific legislative protection for significant church organ . my hon . friend will know that I do not answer for the Church of Scotland , and that heritage and culture be a devolved matter , but when a parish church be to close , the Church of England try to secure a new home for its instrument , work with local authority , the diocese and national heritage body . I believe that the Church of Scotland be take similar step . St Margaret ' s , Church of Scotland , in Knightswood in my constituency be close , much to the detriment of its congregation and the wide area . the church be home to a significant pipe organ , build by the renowned maker Henry Willis . in some country in Europe , there be protection in law for historical instrument such as that one , to prevent they from be destroy or abandon when a church become redundant . do my hon . friend agree that such a scheme should be establish in the UK ? again , my hon . friend highlight the importance and significance of preserve instrument , particularly the one at St Margaret ' s . I would be happy to write to she to suggest organisation that may be able to help the congregation . I would also be happy to put she in touch with the Church of Scotland to see how it can well take the matter forward with she . restoration and Renewal Client Board the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the Restoration and Renewal Client Board , be ask — Cost Drivers what the key cost driver be for the programme . the restoration and renewal programme be in the preparatory stage . to date , key cost driver have include design work and programme and project management cost for survey . on deliver the work for the Palace , three delivery option be be develop , along with their cost , and the intention be to publish that information before the end of the year . the three option for delivery work seem to represent various degree of compromise between shortened timescale , the associate reduce overall cost , and the continued presence and functioning of Parliament within the Palace of Westminster . it be wise to seek way to negate the need for such a compromise . what possibility for decantation into Westminster Hall might yet be explore ? would the Minister meet I and member of the project team to discuss those possibility ? my hon . friend ' s professional background offer he insight into the choice that we will have to make . I understand that the possible use of Westminster Hall as a host for the Chamber have be consider , but there be concern about the impact on the old part of the palace . the northern estate be the favour location . I will ask senior officer of the restoration and renewal team about his idea , which I be happy to discuss far with he . Electoral Commission Committee the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Strategy and Policy Statement what discussion he have have with the Electoral Commission on the arrangement for the publication of the first strategy and policy statement . the first and current strategy and policy statement for the Electoral Commission be publish by the previous Government in February last year . the commission pass its report to the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission this week , set out how it have have regard to the statement as require by law . the commission will publish that report in due course . the Elections Act 2022 pass by the previous Government impose a strategy and policy statement on the Electoral Commission , undermine its independence for some confected agenda about voter fraud , and erode trust and confidence in the commission . do the right hon . and learn Gentleman agree that the good course of action would be not to publish a further strategy and policy statement until such a time as the legislation can be review ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that that be the commission ' s view . he will know that the commission remain opposed to the principle of a strategy and policy statement , and view such a mechanism as inconsistent with its independent role . it be estimate that only 3 % of the 3 . 5 million british citizen abroad participate in the last general election . what action can the Electoral Commission and my right hon . and learn Friend take to ensure that people who be eligible to vote can do so in future general election ? my hon . friend be right that more can always be do to ensure that all those eligible for the franchise , which now include a substantial number of overseas voter , understand what they be entitle to , and that we offer they all the assistance we can to participate in the process . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Archbishop of Canterbury Appointment what progress the Church have make on appoint a new Archbishop of Canterbury . the Crown Nominations Commission , chair by Lord Evans , will oversee the appointment of a new archbishop . a public consultation be under way — I encourage all hon . member to submit their thought ; they have until 28 March to do so — and an announcement be expect before the end of the year . recent headline about safeguard failure have badly erode trust in the Church . the former Archbishop of Canterbury , with whom I have have the pleasure of work closely , resign his position in recognition of that so that the Church could move forward . I congratulate the Second Church Estates Commissioner on her powerful speech at the most recent Synod . do she agree that those select our next archbishop must not be implicate in safeguard failure of any kind ? I thank my hon . friend for her fantastic and poignant question . historical and recent safeguarding failure have erode trust in the Church . to rebuild and restore that trust , the Church must show that it be serious about keep people safe . that must include hold to account those who be responsible for failure — no one , no matter how senior , can be above scrutiny and accountability . I agree that those responsible for select the next archbishop must inspire confidence and trust , both among the public and among victim and survivor , who have be so badly let down . next Monday ' s Adjournment debate will be on safeguard in the Church of England . there will also be a question and answer session on safeguard with the Archbishop of York and other senior member of the Church . I be pleased that that will take place , and I encourage hon . member from across the House to go along to those session . restoration and Renewal Client Board the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the Restoration and Renewal Client Board , be ask — parliamentary Staff Engagement what step the client board be take to engage with parliamentary staff on the restoration of the Palace of Westminster . the restoration and renewal programme have engage extensively with staff of both Houses . there be a legal duty to do so under the parliamentary Buildings ( Restoration and Renewal ) Act 2019 . in the past two year alone , the programme have hold over 420 workshop with parliamentary subject expert , engage over 1 , 200 staff in group briefing , and take over 700 staff member on R & R tour of the palace . that include staff who work for Members , in addition to those who work for both Houses . enable staff to engage be vital , and the programme team will continue to ensure that there be opportunity to do so . I thank the hon . member for his answer . as he say , there be 7 , 000 staff work here who support 650 member of this House and 836 in the other place . as he recognise , it be essential that the need , wisdom and experience of the people who make the estate a success be hear and fully consider . will he commit to continue to run that full consultation and maximise effort to do so in a way that will ensure the strong attendance and the good engagement ? the hon . Member make an important point : the whole Westminster village need to be engage in this important topic , which affect all of our workplace . the good way that we can support staff in this building be to ensure that their health and safety be paramount . the three option that be be propose have radically different health and safety implication . when those option come to the House , will my hon . friend ensure that the health and safety information be categorically lay out , and can he confirm when the House will vote on those option ? our timetable say that we remain on track to bring the proposal forward by the end of 2025 . those proposal will detail cost , timescale , risk and benefit , and of course my hon . friend ' s point about safety will be foremost in our mind . Gaza : BBC Coverage ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State if she will make a statement on the coverage of Gaza by the BBC . as the House will be aware , Hamas be a proscribe terrorist organisation in the UK . it be my view and the view of this government — I hope it be share across the whole House — that Hamas be a terrorist organisation guilty of heinous act of terrorism over many year , include the appalling terrorist and antisemitic attack carry out on 7 October 2023 . that be a position I set out clearly in public in the medium this week . that tragic day and the conflict that follow have have real - life impact on community across the UK , play out on our street and overseas , and every one of we have a duty to take the utmost care not to exacerbate the situation . that be why I have discuss editorial guideline with the BBC director general in recent day . the BBC have clear editorial guideline to report Hamas as a terror organisation proscribe by the UK Government . that be its policy under the last government , and that remain its policy now . I hold discussion with the BBC director general early this week at my request in order to seek urgent answer about the check and due diligence that should have be carry out ahead of the screening of a recent documentary on Gaza , and about the commissioning , the payment and the use of licence fee payer ' money . I also seek cast - iron assurance that no money pay have fall into the hand of Hamas and that the utmost care be take to ensure that that be the case . I expect to be keep inform about the finding of the internal BBC investigation , and I will be happy to update the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) and colleague across the House on its progress . across all the issue on which the BBC may report , the BBC ' s operational and editorial independence from the Government be an important principle that we intend to uphold . as a former Minister at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , the right hon . Member will be aware that it be for Ofcom as the independent regulator to ensure the BBC fulfil its obligation under the charter and broadcast code . nevertheless , as I have set out publicly , it be essential that the BBC maintain the high standard of reporting and governance , as the public rightly expect . I have make those view clear to the BBC . that be crucial to ensure that the BBC retain the confidence of the public . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that answer . the documentary " Gaza : how to survive a Warzone " be broadcast by the BBC on 17 February . it purport to show what everyday life be like for people in Gaza — a topic of huge sensitivity . as the UK ' s public broadcaster , the BBC have a duty to provide accurate and impartial news and information , which be particularly important when it come to coverage of highly sensitive event . in this case , it be clear that the BBC have fall far short of those standard . shortly after it air , report emerge that the documentary be narrate by the son of a senior Hamas figure . initially , the BBC defend the programme as an " invaluable testament " to the conflict and keep it available on iPlayer . only after a significant public backlash do the BBC decide to withdraw it . then we learn that on at least five occasion , the word " Yahud " and " Yahudy " — Arabic for " Jew " and " Jews " — be change to " Israel " and " israeli force " , or be remove from the documentary ; and then we learn that up to £ 400 , 000 in public fund might have indirectly support a terrorist organisation . however , I regret to say that the Government ' s response to these allegation have be just as concern . on Monday the Secretary of State refuse to say whether Hamas , a proscribe terrorist organisation , should be describe as such by the BBC , but I be glad to hear her comment today . on Tuesday the Home Secretary , the Minister responsible for address threat relate to terrorism , say that she do not " know the detail " surround this case , despite allegation that £ 400 , 000 in public fund may have indirectly support this organisation . for that reason , the Leader of the Opposition write to the director general of the BBC request a full independent inquiry to consider this and wide allegation of systemic bias against Israel . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her response to my correspondence on this matter . I understand from her letter that she have raise these concern about the documentary with the director general — and she have just confirm that — and it be right that she do so , but I must press she far on the letter ' s content . do she make it clear that , in this case , the BBC have fall far short of the standard expect of the UK ' s public broadcaster ? do she receive any assurance from the BBC that taxpayer ' money have not be funnel to Hamas ? do she support our call for a full independent inquiry into the documentary ? what commitment do she receive from the BBC that this will never happen again , and if a criminal investigation have to take place , what will happen ? order . that should have be two minute . please will everyone measure how long they have ? it be unfair , because we have a lot of business to get through . I thank the right hon . gentleman for bring this matter to the House , and also for raise it with I . as he know , I have a long history of take antisemitism extremely seriously — for instance , when it poison my own party — and I will always speak out without fear or favour when I see it raise its ugly head . I be , however , deeply disappointed by his attempt to pretend that the Government have be anything other than robust on this . he will know that in the medium interview to which he refer , I make it crystal clear that the UK Government and I believe , and have believe for a long time , that Hamas be not only a proscribe terrorist organisation in the UK but a terrorist organisation , and we will continue to describe it as such . he will also know that in one of those interview I make it clear that I have request a meeting with the director general of the BBC to discuss the matter . " of course , the BBC be not there as an instrument of Government . minister seek to interfere with editorial decision or the day - to - day run of the organisation would be in nobody ' s interest , in seek to build the trust that be so fundamental to its core purpose . " — [ Official Report , 27 February 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 103WH . ] those be not my word but the word of the last medium Minister , the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , whom the right hon . Gentleman serve alongside . he be a Minister in that government . the hon . Lady be now the parliamentary private Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition . if he disagree with she , I suggest that he take that up with she , but this be far too important an issue to be treat as a political football . along with several other member , I visit Israel and the occupy west bank last week , but there be no access to Gaza for we . in fact , the close we get to it be view the utter devastation of Gaza City through a telescope . over the last year during the war , accord to the Committee to protect Journalists , at least 162 palestinian journalist have be kill in Gaza , and the BBC and other journalist have have no access to Gaza whatsoever . do the Secretary of State agree that that be as unacceptable as any attack on the independence of the BBC ? yes . the duty to report on what be happen to people in Gaza be absolutely fundamental , and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have raise the issue of journalist , access and protection and safety a number of time . that be why the Government believe that the BBC and other have the utmost duty to exercise care and due diligence in the way in which they report on this conflict . it be in no one ' s interest for the public not to have confidence in the information that they be receive . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I commend the Secretary of State for her response to the urgent question ; we agree with the position be take . I can not imagine what it must be like to be a palestinian child in Gaza . in the first six month of the war alone , 2 % of the child population be kill or injure , and ten of thousand more will have be orphan or leave homeless . give this humanitarian catastrophe , many in this House today will find it deeply disappointing that , due to error make in the production of this documentary , we be instead discuss why it be pull , rather than the press matter at hand . many of we will share the regret that we have end up in this situation . clearly , innocent palestinian child have suffer terribly over the past 16 month . do the Secretary of State agree that , regardless of today ' s discussion , it be vital to shine an ongoing , credible and sustain spotlight on the plight of child in Gaza ? yes , and I thank the hon . Gentleman for his careful and consider word on this . in the last year I meet with the british family of some of the child in Gaza and the story be absolutely horrifying . we have a duty to ensure that those story be tell , and that people can have confidence in what they be be tell . I thank the Secretary of State for get to grip with this issue so quickly and acknowledge that what happen on 7 October and what happen subsequently in Gaza be of huge significance ; her understanding give I hope . will she commit to come back to this Chamber and update we on the outcome of whatever happen with the BBC investigation ? I be happy to say to my hon . friend , who have a long - stand interest and have be a real champion for child in Gaza for many year , that I will be more than happy to keep colleague update as this progress and to update the whole House at the early opportunity . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . the BBC have definitely get question to answer here , not just on the dealing over this film but on the wide concern about the representation and reporting of the Gaza conflict . as the Secretary of State say , Hamas be a proscribe terrorist organisation yet they be refer to as such in just 7 . 7 % of instance of report by the BBC . it take four day after broadcast for this programme to be take off iPlayer , and at that point the BBC say there have to be far due diligence with the production company . it be not the first time that the BBC have have issue with its due diligence , but in subject matter as sensitive and incendiary as this , language matter , and treat issue like this with detail , sensitivity and impartiality matter especially . the BBC board be meet today . how confident be the Secretary of State that the board be provide the necessary challenge to executive to maintain that due diligence and to maintain the trust in the organisation ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the BBC board play the critical role in ensure that the BBC reach the high possible standard , which she and I , and indeed all member of this House , expect . they will have hear her word and mine loud and clear : we expect they to play that role . they must do that , and part of my job be to hold they to account for what they do and do not do in relation to this . I welcome this statement because I think it be important that we talk about our tone in public life . I worry that sometimes the public outside the Chamber do not see this House as be the good arbiter of appropriate tone . in fact , in recent day I have hear joke about suicide , I have see sexism and so much more . do the Secretary of State agree that we should lead from the front and set a good example in this House on how we police our own boundary and language ? my hon . friend , as always , have take care to strike the right tone , and I thank he very much for raise that . [ interruption . ] order . the question be not relevant to what we be discuss ; that be the problem . I listen carefully to what the Secretary of State say and welcome her clear criticism of this documentary , but may I return to some of the — at good — mistranslation that happen during the documentary that my right hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State reference ? instance of the arabic word for " Jews " be change to " israeli " and , possibly bad of all , one interviewee praise the Hamas leader for his " Jihad against the Jews " , yet the BBC translate that to " fight israeli force " . that be not an error in Google Translate ; it be clearly a deliberate attempt to completely misinterpret the approach towards Hamas and the situation in the middle east . can she give I an assurance that she will be robust in challenge those translation , because those term be clearly antisemitic and take a pro - Hamas , pro - terrorist viewpoint ? I be more than happy to give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . I discuss the precise use of language with the BBC director general early this week . on the question ask by the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , I also discuss the use of the full term " a proscribe terror organisation " by the UK Government and the frequency with which that term be use by the BBC . I make it clear that I , as the Secretary of State , believe that it be incredibly important that the BBC adhere to its own guideline . Hamas be a proscribe organisation and that be as it should be . the israeli military have ban international journalist from Gaza and at least 162 palestinian journalist have be kill in Gaza in the last 500 day . do the Secretary of State agree that BBC and all medium coverage of Gaza can only benefit from journalist be allow in to report on the ground , a point raise with I by some constituent in the past few week ? do she far agree that journalist must be protect from harm , in line with international law ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work that she have do over many year , include as the director of Medical aid for Palestinians . she know well than anyone in this House what be happen in Gaza — I think she may be the only Member of the House who have recently be in Gaza to see the condition that many hon . member have describe . I very much agree with her point about journalistic access and safety . I also agree with my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) that we set the right tone in this House be essential . I be sure that member across the House all agree that the most important issue be the maintenance of the ceasefire . hostage need to go home , aid need to get in and a peaceful future need to be build . what more can this Government do to ensure that the story of those affect be hear , to continue the international determination for the maintenance of the ceasefire ? when I meet british Palestinians whose family member be in Gaza and when I meet the family whose love one have be take hostage by Hamas , and have be hold or continue to be hold in Gaza , I make a commitment to they that , in opposition and in government , we would continue to use every opportunity to shine a spotlight on what be happen to they . I think they will be very encourage by the word of the hon . Lady . it be a particular to tribute to the House that Members from every political party be raise these issue and ensure that we continue to tell those story . since the Hamas atrocity of 7 October , ten of thousand of Gazans have be kill by israeli force , and hundred of thousand more have be subject to unimaginable suffering . it be essential that their story be tell and it be unacceptable that the BBC should have choose to tell they through those connect to Hamas . we understand that the BBC be not allow into Gaza , so will the Secretary of State confirm where this programme be subcontract and to whom ? on the issue of translation , do the BBC not have a translation guide ? be that publicly available ? if not , should it be ? finally , when israeli Ministers and other call for the ethnic cleansing of Gaza or for the elimination of the palestinian people , surely that must be report in a way that highlight that that be illegal and the cause of immense distress to many in this country ? my hon . friend speak powerfully about the careful use of language and the way in which we all have a responsibility to uphold the high standard on that . on her specific question , have have discussion with the BBC , I can confirm that this be not a BBC programme ; it be commission by an external organisation . [ Official Report , 4 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) that in no way absolve the BBC from the responsibility to undertake due diligence on a programme that it air . when it be air by our national broadcaster , it be grant the legitimacy of our national broadcaster , and that be why these standard matter . I will take away her suggestion about a publicly available translation guide , which might help to assuage some of the concern raise by the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , and discuss that with the BBC . it be essential that the editorial independence of the BBC be protect at home and abroad . will the Secretary of State tell the House whether she or anyone in her Department have contact , formally or informally , with the israeli embassy about the documentary before it be pull from iPlayer ? and will she say when contact be first make between she and the BBC , between the programme be air and then be pull from iPlayer ? no . I thank the Secretary of State for her very clear statement . the big picture that the opposition be miss here be that the british medium at large have greatly suffer from a lack of access in Gaza during the deadly war on record for journalist . my former colleague have variously be deny entry and have unnecessarily prolong and risky exit , and our palestinian contributor have be stick in a living nightmare . will the Secretary of State ensure that she continue to safeguard british medium interest and their reporting abroad and work with Foreign Office colleague to enlarge access for journalist in Gaza ? I be very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . as I say in answer to an early question , my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have raise this issue , and he and I be work very closely together on it . my hon . friend will be aware that the BBC World Service play a critical role in ensure that free and fair information be available all over the world , which be why we rightly expect the high standard from the BBC . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s robust view on the BBC . however , the problem be that the BBC do not refer to Hamas as a terrorist organisation , as it should . indeed , the problem be that David Collier , an investigative journalist , could actually go through the documentary and identify all the error that be make while sit at his computer . if the BBC can not do that , something be seriously wrong , particularly when it be in the position of commission this documentary , not do it internally . can the Secretary of State make sure that when she talk to the BBC , it make extra effort to ensure that if it commission these sort of documentary , they be actually accurate and not use terrorist and potentially funnel money to terrorist ? I be happy to give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . that be part of the discussion I have with the BBC director general early this week . I would expect an organisation like the BBC already to have robust system in place on that , and I have be assure that that be part of the internal review . do the Secretary of State agree that across all the issue that the BBC may report on , its operational and editorial independence from Government be an important principle that should be uphold ? yes , I very much agree with my hon . friend , not least because it be the role of broadcaster to hold a mirror up not just to society , but to the Government , and to hold we to account . that be why I very much agree with the word of the medium Minister in the previous Government , the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , who say that the BBC be not " an instrument of Government . minister seek to interfere with editorial decision or the day - to - day run of the organisation would be in nobody ' s interest " . — [ Official Report , 27 February 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 103WH . ] once again , the BBC have get it badly wrong , since 7 October , with its treatment and description of Hamas as a terrorist organisation . once again , we be tell that lesson will be learn . do the Secretary of State think that the BBC be incompetent , negligent or just riddle with antisemitism ? I have be absolutely clear with this House that I think the BBC have serious question to answer . the director general be very clear with I early this week that it have serious question to answer and that it intend to answer they in full , and I will make sure that be the case . it be quite clear that the BBC have not show the standard of journalistic integrity that we expect of it in the case of this documentary or through its coverage of the 7 October attack and the war that follow . Danny Cohen , the former BBC director of television , say that the BBC be " institutionally hostile to Israel " . can we have an inquiry into not only this incident , but the BBC ' s relationship with Hamas , the independence of its reporter in Gaza from Hamas and its wide coverage of Israel ? if there be evidence of BBC fund reach a proscribe terrorist organisation , will the Secretary of State join I in say that there should be a full criminal investigation ? ensure that no money have fall into the hand of Hamas be the duty of all of we . the last Government be very clear about that in relation to the aid budget , and we be very clear about that too . the BBC need to be as clear , or there must be consequence . I also reassure the hon . Gentleman that in December I convene a roundtable with the jewish community to discuss antisemitism in the art and the creative industry more generally . I be appal by what I hear at that meeting , which be convene by Lord Mann and the Board of Deputies of british Jews . we be work very closely together to stamp out the many unacceptable practice that we have see creep not just into the BBC , but across broadcasting and the art more generally since this appalling conflict begin . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her answer to the urgent question . we all agree that the genuine inaccuracy and misrepresentation in this documentary , and in all reporting , must be address , and that step must be take to prevent they from reoccurre . we also all agree that there be no place for antisemitism or any other racism anywhere . the BBC have be accuse by more than 100 of its staff of give Israel favourable coverage in its reporting of the war on Gaza , and criticise for its lack of accurate , evidence - base journalism . the letter , send to the BBC ' s director general and chief executive officer , say : " basic journalistic tenet have be lack when it come to hold Israel to account for its action . " its signatory include more than 100 anonymous BBC staff and more than 200 people from the media industry . the letter also say : " the consequence of inadequate coverage be significant . every television report , article and radio interview that have fail to robustly challenge israeli claim have systematically dehumanise Palestinians . " what step — order . we have get to get to the question , please . my apology , Mr Speaker . what step be the Secretary of State take to investigate and address the unacceptable and biased anti - palestinian and pro - Israel report by the BBC since 7 October , so that it can be trust by those in this House and by the licence fee payer who fund its existence ? the view that the hon . Gentleman have express show what a contested and difficult area this be to report on . while this government believe it be essential that we shine a spotlight on what be happen to people — particularly child — in Gaza , there be no excuse for antisemitism , or for the sort of practice that have be allege against the BBC in recent week in relation to this documentary . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s robust response from the Dispatch Box today , and thank she for it . this be an egregious example , but the problem be the pattern of behaviour ; for example , the BBC have spend £ 330 , 000 of taxpayer ' money on legal fee to cover up the 2004 Balen report into coverage of this conflict . do the Secretary of State agree that there be valid question as to why the BBC have refuse to submit to an independent inquiry ? do she agree that the finding of the Balen report have be suppress , and will the Government urge the BBC to publish that report ? the hon . Gentleman be right that there be valid question to answer . the BBC be a treasured national broadcaster ; it play an important role in our public life and , indeed , in the whole ecosystem of the creative industry in this country . that be why we be determined to hold it to the high possible standard , and we expect that it will do nothing less itself . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . we all agree that the BBC ' s impartiality be imperative and that antisemitism be abhorrent , but be it not enough that we have stand by as 48 , 900 Gazans have be kill , include 17 , 400 Gazan child ? be it not enough that we have stand by as 320 aid worker and 162 journalist have be kill ? do the Secretary of State agree that child , and the narrator of this show specifically , can not be hold accountable for the action of their parent , or be this just an extension of Netanyahu ' s policy of collective punishment of the Gazan people ? of course I agree with the hon . Gentleman that child can not be hold responsible for relationship that they have but , to be clear , if the child in question be relate to senior Hamas official , that be important context for viewer to understand . not to inform the public about that context fall way short of the standard we would expect of our national broadcaster . can I also say to the hon . Gentleman that we as a country have not stand aside while over 47 , 000 people have be kill in Gaza ? my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have make this his top priority — he have be in the region several time in recent month — and just a few week ago , my right hon . friend the Minister for Development announce £ 17 million in humanitarian funding for Gaza to ensure that we support its people . notwithstanding the very difficult decision that the Prime Minister announce at this Dispatch Box on Tuesday , we be committed to continue to support the people of Gaza . the day when people gain their news from the BBC and ITV be long go . we now have a whole range of medium outlet , many of which do not have the same editorial standard as we expect from our national broadcaster , so do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital that we can trust our national broadcaster and that it maintain the high possible standard ? the hon . Member make an important point , which I do not think anybody have make yet in this debate , which be that we expect more from the BBC , because it be our treasured national broadcaster . there be a media landscape out there , and we have get to make sure that all our broadcaster meet the high standard , especially when it come to this conflict . I thank the Minister for her answer to the urgent question . the BBC have publicly fund status and therefore have an obligation to report impartially , but that have be call into question since the 7 October atrocity . will the Minister act to hold the BBC cameraman and the staff accountable for their failing ? furthermore , what measure will be introduce to ensure that the BBC ' s editorial standard be raise to prevent the dissemination of mislead , biased and unverified content ? the hon . Member will have hear that I raise a number of issue around this particular documentary and the reporting of this conflict more generally when I meet the BBC director general . I expect the high possible standard . I hear from the director general that he expect the high possible standard as well and that the review will cover all the area that the hon . Member rightly raise . business of the House I call the shadow Leader of the House . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] bad start . touch é , Mr Speaker . will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I say to the gorgeous and brilliant Mr Speaker that I will . the business for next week be as follow : Monday 3 March — remain stage of the Finance Bill . Tuesday 4 March — consideration of an allocation of time motion , follow by all stage of the Church of Scotland ( Lord High Commissioner ) Bill . Wednesday 5 March — estimate day ( first allot day ) . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Department of Health and Social Care ; the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ; and the Department for Business and Trade . at 7 pm the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Thursday 6 March — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill , follow by general debate on International Women ' s day , follow by a debate on a motion on political finance rule . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 10 March will include : Monday 10 March — Second reading of the Crime and Policing Bill . Tuesday 11 March — remain stage of the Employment Rights Bill ( day one ) . Wednesday 12 March — remain stage of the Employment Rights Bill ( day two ) . Thursday 13 March — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 14 March — private member ' Bills . Mr Speaker , I be not quite sure what mental obfuscation be fill my head this morning , but I thank you again . it be my happy task to open by say that today see the retirement of Dawn , a stalwart of the Tea Room . I be sure that I speak for the whole House in wish she a very happy retirement . on a very different note , this week also mark the third anniversary of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . we wish the Prime Minister every success in his meeting at the White House today . the Government have come in for some fairly punish criticism from I at the Dispatch Box in recent month , and rightly so . they come to power loudly advertise their virtue and careful planning , but instead , as the House will know , we have see a series of entirely avoidable resignation , blunder and mishap . the Government have talk about growth , but their decision have manage to reduce the Bank of England ' s forecast from 2 % to 0 . 75 % growth for this year . it be little wonder when one consider the £ 25 billion increase in national insurance contribution and the imposition of an Employment Rights Bill with an up - front cost estimate at £ 5 billion , among much else . most bizarre of all have be the lack of foresight in financial planning . the Chancellor talk grandly in her Mais lecture last year about " securonomic " — whatever that be — and the importance of economic security , but as many commentator have notice , her fiscal rule and other decision have leave she very little room for manoeuvre . after all , it be obvious in the autumn that there could be tariff on trade and , as minister have since acknowledge , an inevitable rise in defence spending . it be almost as though Labour never imagine , or perhaps never want to believe , that President Trump would be re - elect . as a result , the Government may be force to have a mini - Budget next month and then a spending review , which have be so delay that they will have go a full year from their election without have any settle spending plan . meanwhile , they prefer to import oil and gas from abroad , rather than use less expensive domestic energy supply . forget securonomic ; this be a recipe for insecurity , as well as increase carbon emission . however , it be important to give credit where credit be due . I report in December that genuine sign of reality be start to break through in the Government ' s so - call plan for change . in it , the Prime Minister say : " in 2010 , the incoming government inherit public finance in desperate need of repair . " he say that the UK need " a profound cultural shift away from a declinist mentality , which have become so comfortable with failure " . finally , and most notably , he say that " we can not tax our way to prosperity or spend our way to well public service . " the Prime Minister be right on all three count , and he be right now to increase defence spending . it be not untrue to say that he be visibly become more conservative before our eye . unfortunately , the real number in the defence statement be in fact half what he claim , as the Institute for Fiscal Studies quickly make clear , and I be sorry to say that the statement be insult in other way to this House . it appear to have be leak to the medium , who run the headline before the Prime Minister have even stand up . perish the thought that the statement be deliberately redact so that mps would be keep in the dark and could not hold the Government to account . the Prime Minister have emphasise all the planning that be involve in this decision . even so , he be repeatedly unable to answer the simple " yes or no " question of whether funding for the Chagos Islands deal be include in the total . what be bad be that , in his statement , the Prime Minister try to aggregate the intelligence service budget into the defence budget . that be grossly misleading , because those budget be , and have long be , keep separate . what be bad still be that the Prime Minister ' s claim that the combination of the two budget would be 2 . 6 % of GDP seem to imply a cut , not a rise , in the budget for the intelligence service , which currently stand at over 0 . 15 % of gdp . this can not be correct . even if the Leader of the House can not address my question now , I would be grateful if she could write to I with the detail in order to answer it for the record and for the benefit of this House . may I , too , welcome the retirement of Dawn from the Tea Room and wish she well ? let I also say that we have have an excellent couple of ten - minute rule Bills this week — first from the shadow Leader of the House , who bring forward a very important Bill on clean up the River Wye , which I know be of real importance to his constituent , and then from my brilliant parliamentary Private Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , who introduce a Bill to crack down on ghost number plate on car , which be a very important issue . they be in good company with each other this week . as the Prime Minister attend a very important meeting with President Trump today , I know that he have the support of the whole House behind he in the national interest . the peace and security that we have enjoy in recent generation have shift significantly in the last few year , not least because of Russia ' s aggression and its illegal invasion of Ukraine . the Prime Minister have show determined leadership on the world stage to ensure that our national security be protect in the long term . the whole House have also come together once again this week to show our unity and strength in support Ukraine . three year since Russia ' s full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine , we stand in solidarity with its people . we support their bravery and their democratically elect President , and we stand firm for their sovereignty and lasting security , free from threat from Russia . the cross - party unity on display this week , which I know will be on display again this afternoon , show this House at its good and give the Prime Minister great strength in his negotiation and discussion . as the shadow Leader of the House say , the Prime Minister also announce this week — to Parliament first — that to respond to the change and grow threat we face , defence spending will increase to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 and grow to 3 % in the next Parliament . this mark the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war , go far than commitment we make in our manifesto . it be vital not just for our own capability , but for maintain peace and security beyond our shore . other european country must also step up at this crucial juncture . I be really pleased that the announcement of the increase to 2 . 5 % be universally welcome across the House . the right hon . Gentleman yet again raise the Government ' s economic record . let we have a look at that record once again , shall we ? interest rate have come down three time in a row , mortgage rate be also go down , wage be go up , and the lowest - pay will receive a big pay rise from 1 April . he may not be interested in pay and work as dignity and security , but this party be , and we be not ashamed to say so . he talk about energy price , and he will know that this country , under his government , be uniquely and specifically expose to global energy market . the only way for we to get low bill in the long term — sustainable low bill — be to make sure that we have clean energy generate in this country , and that be what this Government be embark on . unfortunately , the right hon . Gentleman want to open up a difference on defence spending , but I gently remind he that the last time we spend 2 . 5 % on defence be under the last Labour Government . his government make promise after promise on the never - never , but it never happen and it be not a credible plan , so I gently remind he of that . it be another week of business question , and another week that the shadow Leader of the House have fail to say anything supportive about his own leader . I keep give he ample opportunity to do so at these session each week . I think he might want to highlight some of the recent speech and intervention she have make , give that they have have so little coverage . she advise we to stop hide behind " vapid statement " . I be not sure that we be make vapid statement ; I think that may be she . be he not take with her claim that only the " conservative be the guardian of western civilisation " ? I know he take his history very seriously , so what do he make of that claim ? do the right hon . Gentleman not want to take the opportunity to restate the claim that the Prime Minister ' s big move this week be all down to a letter he receive from the Leader of the Opposition , or do he , like the rest of we , realise that that be obviously absurd ? what about her suggestion that her leadership stint be akin to that of Donald Trump in his second term ? I mean , come on ! I think we can all see that it be not quite go the way the Conservatives hope . I be not sure whether the right hon . Gentleman be a card player , but I be sure he agree with I that they be not really hold the trump card , but more of a bust flush . unaccountable power carry significant risk , as we have see in this place and across our public service , but when it be in the NHS it can lead to the death of patient . the complaint system in the NHS be not function : they be defensive and they be not try to solve the issue . can we have a debate about NHS complaint to keep our constituent safe ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . as constituency mp , I be sure we all recognise the point she have make . I have hear the Health Secretary speak about these issue many time , and I know he be commit to ensure that the NHS be accountable and responsive , take complaint very seriously and do not in any way try to cover up or hide problem in the service . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Climate Change Committee have publish advice in its seventh carbon budget that set out a new pathway to decarbonisation , include on how the UK can meet the legally binding target of net zero greenhouse gas emission by 2050 . the Climate Change Committee have already report that the UK be behind in meet its climate target , and it have criticise the Government ' s decision to go ahead with the coalmine in Cumbria and oil and gas field in the North sea . on top of that , Ofgem have take the decision to increase the cap for the price of energy bill by 6 . 4 % in April 2025 , which be high than the 5 % increase that even those in the sector expect . this be the third increase since October 2024 . the late price rise mean that household will be force to pay about £ 600 a year more for their gas and electricity than before Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine three year ago . the Liberal Democrats have be gravely concern about the Government ' s delay to tackle poorly insulate home over this winter and to implement the new future home standard . as a result , an estimate 6 million household be still in fuel poverty . it be clear that to tackle the joint issue of climate change and ever - increase energy price , the Government must be bold . the Liberal Democrats want a 10 - year emergency upgrade programme to make home warm and cheap to heat , include free insulation and heat pump for those on low income . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to discuss what more can be do to support those struggle to stay warm , in a way that also support decarbonisation ? I thank the hon . Lady for that important question and contribution . I know that she and her party take this issue as seriously as the Government , and I welcome she raise it here today . she be absolutely right that energy bill and the soar cost of energy over recent year be a huge worry to people and be unaffordable for many . that be why we have a mission to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 , which will not only help to keep bill low for long , but drive growth and tackle the climate crisis . she will know , I be sure , that this country be particularly and uniquely expose to global energy price , and that be still affect the energy price cap this year . I be sure hon . Lady will agree that the only way to tackle the issue be to ensure that we have home - grow , cheap renewable power and that we reduce demand , as she say , by the well insulation of our home , which account for a huge amount of our energy use . household energy price be low than they be last year , but we need to go far and fast . we announce an extension of the warm home discount scheme , which mean an extra £ 150 for nearly 3 million additional people , and we have commit £ 3 . 4 billion over the next three year for home insulation . we will continue to go far and fast , and I will ensure that she and the House be keep update . recently , a burst Thames Water pipe leave thousand of my constituent in Anerley , Crystal Palace and Penge without water for up to five day . the response from Thames Water have be completely unacceptable : it put in only one bottled water station , which be an hour away for some resident ; it fail to deliver water to people on the priority service register ; and its complete lack of communication have leave my constituent in the dark . to make matter bad , the only thing it communicate effectively to resident that week be an increase in water bill . I have call on Thames Water to give I clear answer on the compensation it will pay my constituent . will the Leader of the House join I in urge Thames Water to provide clarity on that , and agree to a debate on change to the compensation scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and I welcome he to his first outing at business question . he raise serious issue with the performance of and service provide by Thames Water . they be raise with I many time during these session and elsewhere in the House . frankly , some of its action have be unacceptable and it need to be bring to account . that be one of the reason why we bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , but we also have an independent commission on water governance look at these issue at the moment . I will ensure that he and the House be keep fully up to date . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business . we have 11 application , cover nine Departments , for the estimate day debate . all of they could have be choose , but we have the difficult decision of choose three . we will try to accommodate those that be not choose when we have the main estimate day debate in May . may I ask the Leader of the House to provide the date of those estimate day debate as early as possible , so that we can facilitate they ? in addition to the business the Leader of the House have announce , on Thursday 13 March in the Chamber , there will be a debate on the future of farming , follow by a debate on mental health support in educational setting , and on Thursday 20 March , if we be give that date , there will be a debate on knife crime among child and young people , follow by a debate on coastal community . in Westminster Hall , on Tuesday 4 March , there will be a debate on the cultural heritage of market town , and on Thursday 6 March , there will be a debate on the financial sustainability and governance of english football , follow by one on ambulance service response time . there will be debate in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 11 March on the governance of English rugby union , and on Thursday 13 March on educational opportunity for young carer . yesterday , the International Atomic Energy Agency announce that Iran be get very , very close to have enrich uranium , which will enable it to have an atomic weapon . this be obviously a direct threat to peace in the middle east , british interest and those across the world . the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary be currently in the United States , but I hope we can have a statement next week on the action the Government will take to prevent Iran from acquire nuclear weapon and to confirm that snapback arrangement will , if necessary , be put in place , with the necessary implication of ensure that Iran do not acquire nuclear weapon , as it would destabilise the entirety of the middle east and beyond if it do . I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce a number of debate that will be widely welcome . many of those issue get raise with I in these session , so I be glad his Committee have accommodate they . I would say , however , that I be sure you would be a lot happy , Mr Speaker , with a debate on rugby league , rather than rugby union — perhaps the hon . Gentleman could bear that in mind next time . the hon . Gentleman raise the important issue of the continue threat that we face — not just in this country , but to our near neighbour and around the world — from Iran and its increase aggression and action . the Government be take this matter very seriously and be take action ; there will , I be hope , be a statement on this matter imminently . I will let the hon . Gentleman know . rise — just to warn the House , business question will finish at 12 . 25 pm . I do not want a repeat of last week , when Members of Parliament be complain to the front office — it be not acceptable . my deputy be do their job . I do not expect complaint today . you be all aware of the time , so help each other out . let ' s have a good example from Leigh Ingham . in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , resident of Parkside in Marston Grange be at a complete standstill . year of roadwork have completely overwhelm their road ; my constituent ' child can not get to school safely because of dangerous crossing , and business be lose business daily . they be tell that roadwork be go to finish this spring , then summer , and now autumn . I be not the first Staffordshire MP to raise the lack of adequate communication from Staffordshire county council — my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) raise it just before recess . can we have a statement on what step the Government be take to hold to account council like mine that refuse to communicate with their resident ? absolutely ; my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) do raise this matter with I before recess . as I say then , I know that when roadwork be constantly delay and be not deliver , it can have a huge impact on local people and on local business , school and hospital . I reiterate what I say before : Staffordshire county council be clearly make a mess of this issue . it need to get a grip , get it sorted and get these roadwork clear , so that the business and people in my hon . friend ' constituency can get back to work . I understand that the Home Secretary be visit Calais today . I hope that she will not only see the beach from which illegal immigrant depart for the United Kingdom , but visit the facility that I see myself a week ago today , with Michael Keohan and Jack Valpy from BBC South East , where we discover some 800 migrant from Sudan live in total squalor , with no sanitation of any kind . I hope that the Home Secretary will have raise this matter with the Mayor of Calais , with the d é put é for Calais , and with her counterpart , the Interior Minister of France . I appreciate that Monday be likely to be a busy day , with the Prime Minister return from Washington , but will the Leader of the House ask the Home Secretary to come to the House at the early opportunity to make a statement on what she have find ? the right hon . member be absolutely right : the situation in relation to the small boat crossing continue to be intolerable in many regard . this country can not sustain what we be see . the situation in Calais , include the step that be be take , or not , be not acceptable either . that be why we have bring forward the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill and be work very closely with France not just on what be happen in Calais but far upstream , to ensure that those migrant do not arrive in Calais and then on these shore in the first place . the right hon . Member make a very good point about ensure that the House be keep up to date . I know that the Home Secretary take that incredibly seriously , and that she be very forthcoming on these matter . none the less , I will certainly ensure that she have hear what he have say . I really enjoy have a kick - about with Derby County woman and the Sport Minister at our fantastic new football facility at the Derby racecourse hub . next week , the hub will host 14 Derby school that be take part in the big ever football session aim at expand football opportunity for girl across the country . do the Leader of the House agree that woman ' s football be go from strength to strength , so can we have a debate about support grassroots football for woman and girl ? absolutely . woman ' s football be go from strength to strength . what we have see from the Lionesses in recent year have inspire a whole new generation . it be great to hear what be happen at Derby racecourse , which be in her constituency , and I be keen to support she in that . I be not a great player of football myself , although I think I be a pretty good tackler in some regard , but I agree that this would make a very good topic for a debate . I recently visit Bath ' s Roman Boxing Gym — anybody who want to see my amazing right - hand swing can watch it on social medium . more seriously . in connection with the question that the Leader of the House have just answer , how can we support community organisation , such as the Roman Boxing Gym , which provide incredible opportunity for young people to compete internationally and nationally , and also provide important diversionary activity ? can we have debate in Government time on all these activity that be so powerful in our community ? I will take a look at the hon . Lady ' s left hook — or right hook ; however hand she be , I be sure she pack a powerful punch ! she make a really good point . I know from my own constituency how important boxing , box club and sport activity be in general . that be why this Government be commit to a curriculum review , to ensure that school and organisation , such as Bath ' s Roman Boxing Gym , be able to provide young people with these kind of opportunity . it be also why we be give local government the big boost to funding that it have have in many year , because many of these organisation rely on local government funding . none the less , she be absolutely right : we need to do more to ensure that young people , such as those in her constituency , have the opportunity to access sport , culture and other activity . I be sure that it would make a good topic for debate . when the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) be Chancellor , he say that he have divert public money away from deprived urban area . in Ilford South , our local Redbridge council have be rank among the most cost - effective council in the country , yet my neighbour be still suffer from the inequality of the politically motivated conservative funding formula . will the Leader of the House consider a debate on local government funding formula to ensure that all area receive their fair share of funding to deliver for local people ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the previous Government do change the funding formula , take funding away from some of the high - need local authority in our country . that be why we be look again at those funding formula , why we will be do three - year settlement for local government , and why we have give local government the big funding boost that it have have for many year , but we need to go far on these matter , and it be important that we do so . we regularly have debate on local government funding , but I will ensure that there be one come up . I call Nick Timothy . thank you , Mr Speaker . that be a pleasant surprise after my brief admonishment . I can spoil it if you want . in Suffolk , we be move towards a unitary council as part of local government reform . I put on record my discomfort that our local election , which be due this year , have be postpone . the danger of the reform , however , be that power will be take far away from local resident . I want parish and town council to be empower to take responsibility for problem such as speeding and road safety . can we have a debate on how we empower town and village to get thing do directly for local resident ? although I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s worry about the election — the delay be only by a year , so that in area such as his , we do not hold unnecessary election this year ahead of mayoral election next year — this be about devolve a huge number of power to local area , and those local area have to be of a size to cope with those power . I know from my own area in Manchester that , ward by ward , that be be feel . the devolution revolution be have a huge positive impact in my area , and I be sure that it will in his as well . before the recess , thank to the Backbench Business Committee , I lead an excellent debate on coalfield community . it be subject to a time limit , be immediately oversubscribe , and I have no time to wind up . with that in mind , will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time for we to far unpick how we can secure the investment , seize the opportunity and deliver the change that coalfield community such as mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme and those up and down our country desperately deserve ? my hon . friend be right that coalfield community make a huge contribution to this country . this Government have support they very quickly in a number of way just in our first few month in office . I understand that his debate be oversubscribed , and I be sure that there would be a great appetite for a further debate , so I will consider carefully his question . ADHD assessment wait time be too long , leave patient and family in limbo as they be leave without crucial treatment . alongside exist medication shortage , that undermine the right to choose . not require improvement in local NHS provision of ADHD assessment would be incredibly shortsighted . will the Leader of the House hold a debate in Government time on the crisis in ADHD service , and will she ask her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to write to I to confirm that there will be no deterioration in waiting time in Wokingham and across England ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter , which be raise with I regularly . I be sure that he will appreciate that we inherit a broken system for ADHD assessment . there be currently unacceptable delay , as he outline . I understand that NHS England have establish a cross - sector taskforce to look at the ADHD service provision . as soon as that be ready to report with recommendation , I will ensure that it come to this House for proper scrutiny . constituent in Kirkby have endure a foul stench from Simonswood industrial estate in west Lancashire for year , make some physically sick . my constituent Gina Griffiths say that it be give her child a persistent sore throat , while Joanne Day and her husband be have breathe problem because of the Simonswood stink . enforcement from Lancashire county council and the Environment Agency , which be responsible for the site , have be unacceptable , despite repeat effort by Shevington ' s Labour councillor , MPs and Knowsley council . can we have a debate on tackle lack of enforcement for waste management plant ? I be disappointed to hear that this awful matter be take so long to be resolve , despite representation from my hon . friend and her colleague . she be absolutely right that the Environment Agency have the power that it need , and it should take all necessary regulatory step to ensure that such operation comply with permit condition . I encourage it to do so at pace , and I will write to she with an update . this week , farmer from across the UK , include from my constituency , be in London for the National Farmers Union conference . I be sure that many of we see the thought - provoke display of toy tractor very close to this place — a stark reminder that the farm tax could destroy farm and farming future . without farmer , there be no food . at a time of such global uncertainty , when we should be actively support our farmer and not drive they out of production , can we have a debate , please , on the importance of improve and increase UK food security ? this Government be very committed both to farming and to provide food security . that be why we be invest a huge and record amount of £ 5 billion in the farming budget , whereas the government that the right hon . Lady serve under underspent the farming budget by £ 300 million . we have set out a 25 - year farming roadmap , which the National Farmers ' Union have welcome as long overdue , and we be take other step , such as extend the seasonal worker visa route for five more year , which have also be welcome . I note that the official Opposition have an Opposition day this week and they choose not to make one of the debate on farming , so she might want to take that up with her Front Benchers . my question be slightly different from that of my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , but it speak to the NHS . the Financial Times report that there have be a 92 % increase in whistleblowe case between 2015 and 2023 , include in the NHS . my constituency have in it the headquarters of the Bradford teaching hospital NHS foundation trust , whose former chair Dr Max Mclean , a decorate police officer , maintain that he have be force to take legal action after be remove from his position follow a decision to raise concern about governance and patient safety . the trust argue that chair , non - executive director and governor be not worker under whistleblowe legislation , potentially leave they without the same protection as other NHS staff when report patient safety and governance concern . give the serious implication for nhs transparency and accountability , will the Government commit to review the issue and provide clarity to the court , as well as allocate time for Parliament to debate well protection for whistleblower ? my hon . friend raise important issue around whistleblower and how their complaint should be take very seriously . I support and welcome she in that , as I be sure the whole House do . as I say in answer to a previous question , I know that the Health Secretary take such matter incredibly seriously . I also point my hon . friend to the fact that we be bring forward a piece of legislation on duty of candour later this year , which will support that agenda . this morning , I have the pleasure of attend Department for Culture , Media and Sport question , because I be hope to highlight two important issue to my constituent . I want to express my gratitude to the team at NK Theatre Arts , who empower young people and help they amplify their voice at Romiley ' s Forum theatre . there be worry , though , about the long - term future of the theatre because there be reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in the roof . I be also cheekily seek a bit of support for my campaign to make Marple lock a world heritage site . at the end of the session , however , many member be leave without an opportunity to ask their question . I be sure that the Leader of the House agree about the importance of culture , medium and sport , both to our constituent and to the House . will she consider extend the time for future question session so that more issue can be raise ? may I , first of all , support the hon . Lady ' s work around the theatre in Romiley ? I know it well — I think I go there as a brownie , when I be a youngster , to see a pantomime — and it be a very good example of a regional theatre . marple lock be also a great tourist attraction in our region as well , and I support she in that campaign . the hon . Lady make a good point . in my time as the shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , I feel strongly about those matter too . we keep under constant review the allocation of oral question with Mr Speaker and the most appropriate division of that , so I will certainly take on board what she say . in fairness , I have never be ask . in my personal view , I would give an hour to culture , medium and sport . I just say that . let we see where we can go . colleague will be aware that I be a former journalist . old habit die hard , so I have some break news to announce : rochdale have this morning be announce as Greater Manchester ' s town of culture for 2025 - 26 . start from April , the year of event will celebrate our international reputation as the birthplace of co - operation and the home to 35 thriving art organisation . I know that the Leader of the House be a culture vulture , so will she congratulate everyone involve in the win bid and maybe pop up the road to see our magnificently restore town hall and partake of the rochdale renaissance ? I very much look forward to take up my hon . friend ' s invitation , and I join he in congratulate Rochdale on become Greater Manchester ' s town of culture . it have a fantastic cultural heritage , and I be sure that he and everybody across Rochdale will seize the opportunity to showcase what a brilliant town it be . the increase pace of government decision making on refugee application be discharge grow number of people into the responsibility of local authority . on top of that , my constituent in the London borough of Hillingdon face an additional £ 1 . 2 million council tax cost to support chagossian displace to the UK by the uncertainty create through the Government ' s stance on the Chagos island . will the Leader of the House make Government time available for a debate on the impact of asylum , refugee and border policy on our local authority ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that the asylum backlog that the Government inherit be absolutely shocking and appalling . it be a huge backlog , and no one could be process , so the backlog build up more and more . we be pay to house more people in asylum hotel , which I know he would have find unacceptable for his constituent , as I do for mine . we be take step to deal with that backlog . we have record number of return ; that do not happen under his government . I be confused about what he be say about Chagos . do he want long - term certainty about british activity in Chagos or not ? if he do , I be sure that he will welcome and support the plan that we have take forward to ensure that . I have have the pleasure of meet my constituent Mark Hughes , who kindly share his experience of a terminal diagnosis . would the Leader of the House join I in commend Mark on his hard work on his successful " Scrap 6 Months " campaign ? as a result of that campaign , those who receive a terminal diagnosis of 12 month or less to live can now have their benefit application fast - track . additionally , will she assist in arrange a meeting between the Department for Work and Pensions and Mark Hughes to discuss next step in support anyone with a terminal diagnosis ? I echo my hon . friend ' s admiration and thank to Mark Hughes for a brilliant campaign for a measure that have come into effect , and which ensure that those with a terminal illness that give they 12 month or less to live get their benefit fast - track . I will ensure that he get a meeting , or a response from the Minister . on 4 February , I meet Janet Williams and Emma Murphy from the national valproate campaign , in - fact , the Independent Fetal Anti - convulsant Trust . later that week , the hon . member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) , and for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) raise these matter at business question . it be a year since the publication of the patient safety commissioner ' s Hughes report , which highlight the devastating impact of valproate and pelvic mesh on thousand of woman and child . give my experience of the infected blood compensation scheme , and what I learn from the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) when she be in opposition , please can we have some time to discuss the matter ? further delay would cause not only enormous additional anxiety , but expense to the taxpayer . we must move on this matter . I respect the right hon . member ' s work on the infected blood scheme — he have a great deal of experience to offer on these matter . he mention an important issue to do with the Hughes report and the valproate and pelvic mesh scandal , which be a big issue in the last Parliament . as he say , colleague raise that with I before the recess . I know that the Minister have meet family and be consider the report in great depth . I will ensure that the House be give a full update on those matter at the early opportunity , but I look forward to he continue to raise the matter with I from the Back Benches if that do not happen . constituent drive to Hastings down St Helen ' s Park Road be confront by the sight of a dilapidated London double - decker bus that have be leave by the side of the road for year because local council have refuse to do anything about it . some resident of St Helen ' s Road be force to live opposite that monstrosity . will the Leader of the House join I in call on Hastings borough council and East Sussex county council to knock head together , grasp the nettle and get that bus move ? I know how unsightly and disturb such thing can be for the people who live around they , so I join my hon . friend in those call . Hastings borough council be run by the Green party . there be no Green Members present , but perhaps they could pull their finger out and get the bus move . I recently meet volunteer who run the Harrogate Competitive Festival for Music , Speech and Drama , a charity that have be go for almost 90 year . it have over 250 different class and category , 800 entry to its competition , and more than 1 , 300 child take part every year . I hear about how it give confidence , and boost people ' s skill and ability to speak and perform in front of large audience . the charity use to receive funding from the local authority , but that have be stop since 2016 . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time on the importance of support the perform art ? I know how important festival such as the Harrogate festival that the hon . Gentleman describe be for young people , give they the opportunity to try out their perform art skill and be assess . as he say , many of those festival be fund by local government , which have see its budget strip to the core in recent year . that be why we boost local government funding in the recent Budget , and why we be look at three - year settlement , which will give local government the chance to fund such thing . we be also consider how we can support culture and the creative curriculum for young people . I be sure that he welcome that . this House have rightly mark the three - year anniversary of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , and we be all steadfast in our support for the ukrainian people . last weekend , I spend a morning with ukrainian refugee settle in my town of Redditch , at their regular breakfast event . I speak with parent and child who be force to leave their home because of the fighting about the impact that that have have on their mental health . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the Redditch resident who have open their home , offer support , and harbour in safety the people who need it the most , in their big time of need ? as we mark the three - year anniversary of the awful illegal invasion of Ukraine , the whole House agree that the Homes for Ukraine scheme be one of the proud contribution that this country have make . I support the work that my hon . friend have be do with Ukrainians in his Redditch constituency . the Leader of the House will recall that after many month of non - committal communication with the Government , I come to business question on 23 January to raise the case tragic case of John Cross , a Bromsgrove pharmacist who very sadly take his own life after complication arise from the covid vaccine . I would like to put on the record that John be a pharmacist and believe in the importance of vaccine . John ' s family believe that he take one for the team , and have be seek justice in his memory . I be grateful to the Leader of the House for her correspondence with I immediately afterwards , but although she promise on the Floor of the House a meeting with the Cross family , my subsequent correspondence with Government have promise only a meeting with I . the Cross family desperately want to meet Government , so that they can see justice deliver in John ' s name . it be disappointing that I have to come here ; it be a little embarrassing for the Government ; and , frankly , it be cruel for the Cross family to have their anguish draw out . I believe the Leader of the House to be a very honourable Member , and I hope that she will agree to a meeting with the Cross family and make it a priority today . I be very sorry that the hon . Gentleman have struggle to get the meeting that I hope he would get , and which the family of John Cross deserve . I will take that forward after this question time . at the very least , I will meet they myself , but I hope that a Health Minister will meet they , which would be the most appropriate thing . this week , I be contact by a constituent who have receive the phone call that every parent dread . her son have be hit by a car as he get off the bus on his way home from Caldicot school . fortunately , he be not seriously hurt ; thank goodness it be still a 20 mph road . the council have be ask to review the limit , but decide to keep it at 20 mph for that road , which be commendable , because otherwise thing could have be so much bad . the Undy and Caldicot school community be determined to push for a crossing to be instal on that stretch of road , which I will , of course , support . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on road safety for young people , particularly at entrance to village , for example , where speed limit can suddenly change ? I be really sorry to hear of my hon . friend ' s constituent be involve in a road traffic accident . as she say , that be the phone call that any parent dread receive , but I be glad to hear that thing be not as serious as they might have be . she be right to use this session to raise the issue of speeding , the need for crossing and other matter in her constituency , and I think a debate on this topic would be very popular and well attend . last week I visit the owner of a local business , who express their concern about the pEPR regulation — the Producer Responsibility Obligations ( packaging and Packaging Waste ) Regulations 2024 . these regulation shift the cost of manage packaging waste from local authority to producer . that represent yet another burden on business at a time when they face no end of other increase cost . could the Leader of the House ensure that the appropriate Minister come to the House and explain what assessment have be make of the impact of these regulation ? I pride myself on know about most thing the Government be do , but I have to say that I be not that familiar with the pEPR regulation , though I will certainly find out about they . this government be take step to ensure that we have a circular economy , and that packaging waste be keep to a minimum . I know the Minister have be to the House a few time to debate some of these matter , but I will ensure that the hon . member get a detailed response about that . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the emergency service crew from Warwickshire Fire and Rescue Service , Warwickshire police and West Midlands Ambulance Service , who this week attend a tragic and fatal fire in my constituency ? public servant such as these rush towards their fellow citizen in their time of need , and often rush towards danger . they show professionalism , compassion and often bravery , and so deserve our appreciation and continue support . I be sorry to hear about the tragic fire in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I join he in commend the amazing work that our emergency service do , and the professionalism and bravery with which they do it , put their own life at risk in do so . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in wish my constituent Philip Jackson a very happy 100th birthday . in a very varied life so far , Philip join the Royal Army Service Corps during the second world war and be involve in the liberation of Cherbourg , but perhaps one of his most harrowing contribution during his period in service be be one of the first to enter the notorious Nazi Bergen - Belsen concentration camp when it be liberate in 1945 . can we have a debate in Government time to celebrate those from our veteran community who have go above and beyond throughout their life in the name of peace and freedom for we all ? I join the hon . member in wish Philip Jackson a very happy birthday . what an amazing 100 year . he be right in what he point out . as we enter the 80th anniversary of VE Day , and of the liberation and freedom that come about from those who first go into Auschwitz and other place , we be remind that that generation will not long be with we . it be good that Philip be still with we , so that we can hear his story , and thank he for all his amazing work and the life he have live . the Leader of the House will be surprised that I be not talk about Doncaster Sheffield airport today ; I would instead like to land some terrific news about primary school in my area . first , Crookesbroom primary academy have rank first among the school in Doncaster for its English and math result . secondly , I visit Wroot Travis school on Monday and hear the child read their letter , which make my heart melt . thirdly , I be really chuff to hear that Bawtry Mayflower primary school have be select as one of the first of the 750 school to offer breakfast club as part of the Government ' s new scheme . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate those outstanding primary school , and acknowledge the significance of the breakfast club programme ? absolutely . my hon . Friend still manage to get Doncaster airport into his question , and I congratulate he on have secure an Adjournment debate on the airport , so he still have the title of Mr Doncaster Airport as far as the House be concern . I join he in commend the outstanding work of primary school in his constituency and the new breakfast club programme unveil this week by the Education Secretary . rise — if we keep the question pithy , I will get everybody in . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate about the importance of keep our road and highway clear of litter and rubbish ? I recently spend time with Ronnie and Darren from Scottish Borders council , who do a tremendous job empty bin and keep the A1 in Berwickshire clean and tidy . they be support by many volunteer , include Candy Philip and Alison Currie from the Berwickshire Anti Litter Group , who spend many hour a week cleaning litter from lay - bys and grass verge . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Ronnie , Darren and the volunteer who do this important work keep our countryside clean and tidy ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Ronnie , Darren , Candy and Alison on keep his area ' s countryside safe . he be right that it should not be up to volunteer to have to deal with and tackle litter . it should be a responsibility of every good citizen to make sure that they do not litter our countryside in the way that they seem to be do in his . the Loughborough Rotary Club do brilliant work in my constituency , as I know the Rotary Club do across this country . in my community it have provide more than 200 warm coat and 500 box to family be rehome . will the Minister please put on record her thank to the Loughborough Rotary Club in my constituency and Rotary Clubs across the nation ? I join my hon . friend in thank Loughborough Rotary Club and all the Rotary Clubs around the country for the work they do and their amazing volunteering work , in his case support people with coat and homeless people . on Saturday I join the 1st Newbold Verdon Scouts group for part of their celebration of 70 year of scouting . they choose 22 February because it commemorate the birth of Robert Baden - Powell , the founder of the Scouts . it be a testament to the Scouts to see the kid there deliver speech and the strength of character that they have learn through the Scouts . may we have a debate to celebrate the 70 year of the Scouts and to thank the volunteer — the like of Steve Dowell and his team — who give up their time to support young people in get the skill they need for future life ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate the scouting movement for the amazing work it have do over 70 year . it provide a great opportunity for young people , and many of we in this House will have be through that movement . I just want to put on record that I do not think I be relate to the Baden - Powells , but I might be ; maybe I will have a look into it . the recent announcement that Prudhoe community high school will be close for a lengthy period due to crack in the building ' s infrastructure be deeply concern , particularly give that the building be only recently open , in 2016 . student have already experience vast disruption due to the covid pandemic and they deserve stability in their education experience ; I be deeply concerned for their welfare . can the Leader of the House help I secure a meeting with an Education Minister to discuss how the student can receive the good support to ensure their education and upcoming exam receive minimal disruption and they can continue their education in peace ? I be really sorry to hear of the closure of Prudhoe community high school . that be absolutely devastating for young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency who will be miss out on education and all that time in school bring . the Department for Education be work closely with those responsible for the building , but I will absolutely ensure that he get a ministerial meeting . UK food resilience be more delicate than ever . the country ' s ability to withstand future crisis have be bring into question by the National Preparedness Commission ' s recent report , yet family farm that support the provision of the nation ' s food security , include the several hundred in Glastonbury and Somerton , be , in the word of the National Farmers Union president , " take a battering " . may we have a debate in Government time about national preparedness , food security and resilience ? this Government be commit to food security , farming and our rural community . we be put in extra money — £ 5 billion over two year — to support farmer , and we have a 25 - year farming road map and a new deal for farmer . so there be a whole range of measure , but food security underpin our farming plan , and I will ensure the hon . Lady be update on these important matter . the Leader of the House may be aware of the ongoing tribunal case of Sandie Peggie , a nurse at my local hospital in Kirkcaldy . woman ' s sex - base right be hard fight and we give they up at our peril . the UK Health Secretary be right to support the need for single - sex space and sex - base right for woman in the NHS . of course , every citizen must be afford safety , respect and dignity in the work place . while the Leader of the House may not want to comment on an ongoing tribunal , do she agree with I that single - sex space must be protect , and will she make time for a debate on how we can well do that ? my hon . friend be right that I will not comment on this particular case , but I absolutely support what she say about the importance of single - sex space . this Government be clear that everybody deserve to feel safe and treat with respect at their workplace , include in the NHS . although health be a devolved matter , the Equality Act 2010 apply to Scotland and be very clear about right and protection for woman . in the past two month , there have be an increase number of attack in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . in the Lubero territory , 70 Christians , include woman , child and the elderly , be find dead , bind and behead in a protestant church . they be capture from their home , before be kill by suspect Allied Democratic Forces militant , link to islamic State terror group , who have display explicit animosity towards Christians . since last Christmas , attack by Islamic State Central Africa Province , the March 23 Movement and CODECO have kill hundred , and militant be move swiftly across the country . will the Leader of the House press the relevant Minister for immediate and long - term intervention , so that the UK Government and international stakeholder can work together to prevent further extremist - lead massacre , while ensure sustainable security and humanitarian support in that region ? the Government remain deeply concerned by the Daesh - affiliate group the Allied Democratic Forces , which continue to increase attack in the Democratic Republic of the Congo . we will ensure that those message be relay very strongly and that the Minister update the hon . gentleman on these matter . the visit to Scotland by the Prime Minister within 48 hour of the general election be widely welcome . that priority for Scotland stand in stark contrast with the action of the Leader of the Opposition , who after 116 day in post have still not venture north of the border , leave scot confuse as to whether they should be dismay or relieve . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate to discuss which party in this House truly stand up for Scotland and for the Union ? constituent , include those of my hon . friend , should probably be relieve that the Leader of the Opposition have not yet visit Scotland . I be not sure we need a debate about which party stand up for the interest of Scotland : we be all very clear that it be the Labour party . last week , Ashby netball club , in my constituency , complete 75 hour of non - stop netball at Ivanhoe school , a feat that be well worth applaud on its own , but the club also raise £ 54 , 000 for kid ' Village , a charity that provide care and respite holiday for child with critical illness . it also break two world record and set an entirely new one . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Ashby netball club and its player , who come from the surround community , for those incredible accomplishment ? when my hon . Friend tell I about this incredible act of charity fundraising by Ashby netball club , I could not believe that they have play continuously for 75 hour — that be a remarkable achievement . I join she in congratulate the player and I wish they the very good in their effort . last month , along with approximately 20 local employer , I attend Cumbernauld academy ' s world of work event , where I be able to engage with more than 100 13 - year - old about the skill need to be an elect politician and how to work for one . it be a crucial part of their preparation for choose which subject they want to take at national 4 and national 5 level . I really get put through my pace on all that , and it be an absolutely fantastic event ; I commend the school on do that . it be important that we far debate the importance of career advice for young people . absolutely . I support my hon . friend in that endeavour and on give young people career advice . I be not sure that I would necessarily join she in advise young people to want a career in elect politic , but perhaps she could give some of her colleague the training session that she give there . on this day 125 year ago , the Labour party be found by Keir Hardie to be the political wing of the trade union movement and the voice of working - class people in this Parliament . Labour have transform the life of million of people since . do the Leader of the House agree that we have another Keir who be transform life for work people today , 125 year on from 27 February 1900 ? will she pay tribute to all of our fellow activist over the year ? what a lovely question . I absolutely support everything that my hon . Friend say . the Prime Minister be name after Keir Hardie , and I think he be absolutely live up to his namesake . last month I meet with Colin , who run the Toaster , a fantastic local caf é on South Street in Bishop ' s Stortford . Colin ' s business have be plague for three and a half year by a pothole on the street outside . Rainwater collect in the pothole and be then splash on to his business — just this week , he have have to clean his shopfront four time . will the Leader of the House join I in call on Hertfordshire county council to take full advantage of the £ 35 million provide by this Government to fix pothole across Hertfordshire , include in Hertford and Stortford , as well as the pothole plague Colin ' s business ? absolutely . my hon . friend describe how awful pothole can be and the impact that they have on business such as Colin ' s . I join he in implore Hertfordshire county council to use the money that the Government have now give it to fix pothole such as that one . the last question go to the ever - present and most patient Mark Sewards . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we know that mass transit system have enormous benefit for local economy . in Nottingham , a tram line be able to generate £ 100 million in investment for local business . that be why I be so pleased that the Government have indicate their support for a mass transit system in West Yorkshire and in Leeds , because we have be wait far too long for one . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the urgent need to get that mass transit system build so that we can have investment in our business and benefit from economic growth across our region ? absolutely . as an MP for and resident of Manchester , I know how vital mass transit scheme be for growth , for provide job opportunity and for boost tourism — everything that Leeds deserve to have . I be really pleased that the Chancellor have indicate her support for that . we have set aside some funding , and we be work with the West Yorkshire combine authority to make sure that those plan become a reality . Backbench Business War in Ukraine : Third anniversary I beg to move , that this House have consider the third anniversary of the war in Ukraine . I have be work on Ukraine with many colleague in all part of the House for a considerable time — we have share that work . the reality in this Chamber , which may mark we out slightly from other country , be that we have be completely unite in our support for Ukraine and the people of Ukraine , who be fight for their freedom as we have have to do in the past . we therefore recognise their sacrifice and the risk that they have take . to anybody who assume that that be of no relevance , I say that the only relevant issue that pervade this debate be that we should always be on the side of those who believe in freedom and democracy . that be what we exist for . I recently come back from another trip to Ukraine . I have do a few trip there , help by a charity call HopeFull . what it have do be quite remarkable and be another example of how people in Britain see thing sometimes slightly differently from the rest of the world . when Russia invade Ukraine and there be a serious danger of it take Kyiv in those early week , the charity — which have be work in Scotland , in the area around Dundee , help to support people in difficulty and in poor circumstance — upped stick and decide that its real cause be now to help those flee from the Russians at the border of Poland , which it do . in fact , the charity turn up two week early than even Oxfam manage , simply by get truck and drive across . that be a very british way of do thing . eventually the charity cross over the border , and over the past three year it have supply many people , organisation , town and city with food . the way in which it have do that be to take pizza in pizza truck to feed they . indicate assent . the hon . Gentleman be nod because he and I be recently cook those pizza close to the front . that charity have feed more than 2 . 5 million Ukrainians in that time , use charitable money and support from other country , which be quite remarkable . the charity have now turn its attention to the other huge issue of combat stress and the disaster post - war that will haunt Ukrainians , for those who will suffer internally and externally , and I will come to that in a few minute . I be therefore proud that people from the charity be in the Gallery today to watch the debate — I know that we should not normally refer to the Gallery , but in this instance it be quite relevant . of its own accord , the charity have launch a rehabilitation programme in Ukraine , where it be try to set up treatment for those with serious combat stress , and then try to multiply that out by teach other veteran to help people through programme all across Ukraine . we have a lot to learn from Ukraine on the scale of that and from what they be see at the moment , and the figure be absolutely staggering . that address the psychological and physical need and the moral injury , which be huge — on a scale that we have not see since the second world war . it be worth look at a couple of piece on this subject . apart from combat stress , the scale of the damage be quite interesting . there be 5 million veteran in Ukraine . some 50 , 000 of those veteran and young people now need prosthetic . I will repeat that figure — 50 , 000 Ukrainians be wait to get prosthetic . they have lose leg and arm through the mine , the shell and the shellfire . civilian have be treat just like soldier ; they have be attack by the Russians , who bombard hospital . I have be to hospital — the military hospital in Kharkiv , which I visit , be shell regularly and deliberately . who shell hospital deliberately ? they do . on my last visit , I visit a wonderful child ' s hospital in Kyiv . I think the hon . member for Macclesfield ( Tim Roca ) may have be with I on that visit . the child ' s hospital have receive a direct hit from a ballistic missile . we do not get misfire on ballistic missile ; they be target to within a yard of their destination point . that be deliberate , and it try to blow apart the work that the hospital be do to help child suffer from cancer and all the ailment of war . that be the real horror of how Russia have fight this war . the very fact that it fight the war and invade Ukraine be bad enough , but it have not stick to all the usual rule that apply to those who fight . civilian should be leave out of it as far as possible , but Russia target they . I go to the prosthetic lab to see this , and we in this country have a lot to learn from the Ukrainians . they be make advance in prosthetic that we simply could not have believe be feasible . I say to the Government that we really need to be send people over there to look at what they be do and bring it back , because it could be apply to civilian injury in this country . all of the work that the charity HopeFull be do be aim at help those people , and I salute it for that . there be those who say that Ukraine be somehow guilty of cause the war . I have be to Ukraine with other member , and one need only see the sheer brutality of what have be happen on the ground to recognise how wrong such statement be . Russia ' s aggression be not cause by anybody else ; it be cause by Russia ' s greed , its avarice , and its wrong - head idea that it can recreate Greater Russia along the old Soviet Union line . that be what be drive this war . that be what have lead to probably over 800 , 000 dead and injure Russians , whose family will never see they again . many , of course , will never see their body , because Russia systematically cremate they , so that there will not be a series of funeral in Russia , which could cause problem at home — that show the cynicism of the country . we therefore need to remind everybody — we do not think that we do — that Ukraine be fight a war of defence , not of aggression . it be Russia that have create the problem . because of all the thing that have be go on and mill around in the air , and all the row that have be take place , I also want to say that we need to take a pace back . this be not about point finger at anybody ; it be about try to correct some of what have be say . I have to say straight off that peace be not just the absence of war — if it be just the absence of war , it become a ceasefire ; an intolerable ceasefire that will break down . for peace to be durable and long - last , we need it to contain freedom and justice . there can be no real peace without justice for those who have be fight for their country and for peace . that have to apply to we in NATO — in America and in Europe . we need to recognise that there can be no peace unless there be justice in that peace for those who have suffer most . my right hon . friend be make a powerful speech . factually , the article 5 mutual defence clause of the Washington treaty have only ever be invoke once in its history . that be by the United States after 9 / 11 , when President Bush rule that America have be attack and NATO in Europe — particularly Britain — come to its aid . do my right hon . friend think it be worth bear that in mind as these very important discussion take place in Washington ? of course it be . article 5 have be the reason that western Europe have be able to grow and settle , and America have also be able to pursue its own end because of the mutual defence pact that exist between we . I remember that Sir Tony Blair , who be the Prime Minister at that stage , do not waste any time ; he come out immediately to support America , so much so that he be able to get into the debate that take place in the Congress and be welcome as a friend , which be quite right . the reality be that the UK be the first to push for article 5 to be invoke , and George Robertson be the head of NATO at the time and move it for the first time . that be very much the right thing to do , and that be what underpin this . before I continue , I want to come back to some of the after - effect . I go to see those who be look after , and be responsible for , prisoner of war in Kyiv . what be fascinating be that the abuse that be take place in Russia trash the Geneva convention on support for prisoner of war . Russia spend its time move ukrainian prisoner of war around and do not allow the Red Cross full access at any stage . that be against the convention , and the Red Cross have complain — although I do not think it have say it loudly enough — that some ukrainian prisoner of war be be use as human shield . some be be use to clear mine in certain area , which be also against the rule . we also know that in a number of case , after serious interrogation of those prisoner of war , which be also illegal , their family in Ukraine be be bully and threaten . they be tell that unless they start spy or carry out damaging act in Ukraine , their love one — their husband , son or daughter — in the prisoner of war camp , if such a thing exist , will be torture and deal with . this be go on quite regularly now and have be discover by the Ukrainians . it be illegal under the Geneva convention , and I urge the Government to speak seriously to the Red Cross about make a much more public statement about how prisoner of war be be treat , because it really be quite shocking . there be a lack of accountability on this and the Red Cross need to do much more . we must not underestimate the fact that there have be a change of regime in the United States , and that President Trump have make it very clear that he want the war to end and that we have to drive to that . I think all of we in this House would support that position ; we want to see an end to war . in fact , the Ukrainians want to see an end to war . nobody want to carry on fight if there be a possibility of a good peace deal that , as I have say , contain justice and freedom for the Ukrainians . however , President Trump see this as a sideshow ; he say that he be more focused on China , Taiwan and other issue , and I think he want to make saving on the United States ' spending in some of these area , which be reasonable . however , the problem be that , for all our support for Ukraine , the reason why this war have go on for three year be that we , the ally , quite honestly have drag our foot on supply the weapon and equipment that Ukraine need from day one . in fact , there be a period in 2023 when Russia be on the rack and have real problem . it be short of munition , it have lose territory to the Ukrainians — certainly in the east , around Kharkiv — and that be the moment at which Ukraine might well have be able to deal properly with Russia and push it back . strangely enough , at that stage two thing seem to have happen . first , I do not believe that the attack on Israel by Hamas be just a stand - alone item ; I think that Iran , China and other have realise that Russia need a distraction . the Americans , of course , immediately move to support Israel — which be what they will do — and supply arm to the Israelis . I be in the Congress around that time , look to see whether America could get the money through . some of the Republicans do not agree with the Bill and be block it . we do manage to persuade a few and they do push it forward , but my point be that they say , " the war in Israel be our war ; Ukraine be your war , not ours ; and we be keenly concerned about Taiwan . " the point I make to those Republicans , which I make again now , be that , in reality , we can not separate Taiwan from Ukraine , or in a way from Israel . my personal view be that China ' s hand be in all of this , and that distraction — that move of equipment — have mean that Russia have be able to regain its strength and reach a rapprochement with North Korea . interestingly enough , the scale of weapon that North Korea be now supply be breathtake — I think that well over 5 million artillery shell have be supply since it sign the agreement with Russia . it now have thousand of troop in Russia who be defend the russian position , and it be plan to supply even more weapon and missile . this be a chain of totalitarian state that be work to support each other , and we be lose on this , because we ourselves do not focus on that linkage between Iran , Russia , China and North Korea . I give one small warning . it be something the Americans need to face , and I hope that the Government will raise it with they . it be simply this : Russia in reply be give significant technology to the North Koreans , particularly for submarine - launch ballistic missile . the security service here know about that , but it be a serious and significant shift . if the North Koreans have that technology , they will be able to take their nuclear weapon out to sea , which will bring all the american continent directly under target from those missile . that will change the whole nature of the Pacific in term of how we see geostrategic defence . it be a major change , and Russia have be give the North Koreans that technology . it would be useful for the Government to say that this matter be not separable . Ukraine be the reason for that move . the road to Taiwan run right through Ukraine , and we can not and must not separate they . I make the simple point that when we speak about the money , it be a huge amount . I know that the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) will want to speak on this , but the reality be that we have have debate before on the huge amount of money we have sit here . those be asset belong to Russians — not just the oligarchs , but also the state . some $ 300 billion of russian asset be freeze within the G7 and the EU . some $ 25 billion of Central Bank of Russia reserve be freeze in the UK alone . that be manage by Euroclear , and there be euroclear money in Canada and other country . the Government say the other day that they be prepared to use the money earn from that capital for Ukraine . I argue that if they be to use the money earn from the capital , they also have a right to use the capital . we should not just freeze the capital sit in the bank , but seize it and use it for reparation , damage repair and the work that be necessary . I think we would see a major change immediately . can the right hon . member explain why there seem to be a certain reluctance among western leader to use this capital — the $ 300 billion or so of russian state asset in western bank ? it could be powerful as part of potential peace negotiation . I agree . I can understand that reluctance . I think it be twofold . those who have financial service market be worried that if they leap out and do this without full agreement , all those other country will say , " that be the last time we will ever invest money in that capital market . we will move it to the other country that do not do that . " I can understand from the Government ' s standpoint that it have to be agree across at least the G7 , as its member control most of those capital market . that would mean there would not be any country for an oligarch or totalitarian leader to go to . we have have a long time to get this right . Canada have make the strong statement of all . I be tell that America be okay under the last Administration . I be not sure now , but I would hope that President Trump realise this money be there . we should make this agreement as fast as possible . there can be no peace deal without money attach to it , and that money be necessary for Ukraine and must be use for Ukraine , and it be a huge sum . if we think we can use the earning from the capital , we can use the capital too , because there be no definition or delineation between they . if we own the earning , we own the capital . the right hon . Gentleman and I have organise debate on this topic in the past . do he share my view that we now need to get a lot fast in seize this money , not only to pay for the munition need to win the war , but crucially , then to win the peace in Ukraine , make good the horrific scale of damage that Russia have inflict on that great country ? I can not put a piece of paper between the two of we . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . he now have the capability to push the Government over this issue through his Select Committee . whatever he choose to do , I assure he that Opposition Members will support he in that pursuit . we need to get these decision make now , because that will put pressure on Russia . if we make the decision to seize this money , Russia will then be under pressure to reach a reasonable agreement , because the Russians do not want to lose all this money in the meantime . there be a whole line of pressure that we should be bring to bear on the Russians . we have allow certain thing to take place , and I do not blame just this Government , because it also happen under the last government . the Foreign Office be always slightly reluctant to pursue sanction with quite the aggressive nature that I would want . we recognise that . everything have always get to be , " well , Minister , you know , we must take into consideration a huge number of factor here , such as , ' why , when and who ? ' these need paper , Minister . " I would say to they , " forget the paper , let ' s get to the fact . " the fact be that we have be allow a shadow fleet carry liquefy natural gas to come from Russia — even in the past few month — and deliver to the UK and other country . how can it do that ? the answer be simple , and I have raise this with the Government previously . the Americans have step in and say that any country that take this gas will be sanction , and that stop it overnight , but we could have stop it , because we have the major marine insurer in this country . it be british company that be insure this shadow fleet to take russian gas elsewhere . in what world do people sit there , watch that , and string out question about what they should do ? all we have to do be to say that we would sanction any marine insurer that insure one of those vessel . that would have be the end of it , because the marine insurer market be here in the UK . it would have kill that practice stone dead . America have now move on this , and we can see some of these ship anchor off such place as India and even China , because they dare not take the gas , because of the sanction . I urge the Government to drive their civil servant to be quick , fast and more determined to follow the money and to stop it . as I say , that be not a criticism alone of the present Government ; it be also a criticism of the Government of my party that be in power before . there be many thing we have to address in this debate , one of which be the atrocity that the russian force carry out against Ukrainians where they butcher , maim , rape , abuse and burn alive . those thing can not be forget about , because the family still want justice . they want those who carry those atrocity out to be accountable . as this process of peace move forward , that justice have to be part of the peace process , as it be in Northern Ireland . I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . that justice will take time , but part of the point that I make be that we can not have a peace , if it be a peace without justice . Justice have to prevail , because if it do not , we encourage everyone else to think , " whatever we do , we will get away with it next time , because they do not have the courage to pursue the justice angle of peace . " we know that , and we have know that over the past 60 or 70 year . it be what the Nuremberg trial be all about , where the idea be for the first time to pursue the aggressor . that stand in the hon . Gentleman ' s case . I serve in Northern Ireland , as he know , and I lose good friend . I still wonder what happen to they , even to this day . justice for Ukraine will take a long while , and I accept that . the most interesting thing about the sanction be that some of the LNG shipment be do by UK firm . I see that Shell be involve , which make it peculiar why we do not step in early . I will bring my speech to a close , because I know that other wish to speak . the problem be that there be an incorrect view and assumption about the importance of defend Ukraine that have get lose in the back - and - forth row that take place over the past week and a half . the idea that just meet Putin ' s demand for territory that he may or may not have at the moment will somehow appease he and satisfy his requirement be completely wrong . I note that in the telephone call between President Trump and Putin , that be what President Trump say be important . the truth be that Putin be an ex - KGB man . once KGB , always KGB . he be not interested in territory ; he be interested in sovereignty , which be a key difference . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his powerful speech . I be originally from West Germany , as most people know , and I remind everybody that I would not be here without the US presence in Germany . be it not a shame that , despite live memory , people seem to have forget the powerful status of the US in western Europe ? we need to remind the american President of that . I think President Trump be be remind of that now in America , because argument be take place about this issue , but I do not think that he have forget . what we have to get line up be the real nature of what Putin want . it be not territory , but sovereignty . we know that he have always want to recreate the full border of the old Soviet Union in a great Russia . the war with Ukraine be not about get 20 % of its territory . for he , it be about get all of Ukraine . if we have a peace deal that be not stable , he will be back . he will build up his armed force , which he can do quite quickly now with the support of country like North Korea , and he will be back in double - quick time . who be to say that Ukraine will be in any fit state to be able to defend itself ? it be only able to defend itself because in the period between the seizure of Crimea in 2014 and the war , we and the Americans set out about training and arm ukrainian troop in a way that make they much well when the Russians come in the next time round , which be why they do not take Kyiv and be drive back . that be because we have get ahead of the game with the Ukrainians , who have much well armed force than they do when Russia walk into Crimea . the reality for we be that there need to be guarantee on anything that happen , and I do not think that we can separate the Americans from the guarantee . as the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) say , America be the ultimate guarantor at the end of the day . by the way , I agree with the Americans that the west have ride on the coat tail of the United States for far too long — we have be guilty of that . we have live a life that have allow we to say , " we ' ll claim that defence spending be this amount , " but it be not really . that be one of the reason why President Trump be angry about the idea that the Americans should be expect to take on this matter , so we have to step up . I be pleased that the Prime Minister have start the process , and I wish he all the good in Washington , but increase defence spending absolutely have to happen . the last time we speak , I point out to he that we face the great threat that we have ever face when the Soviet Union put SS - 20 missile in Europe . it be Reagan and Thatcher , support by Helmut Kohl and other , who help lead western Europe to take the tough decision to put Pershing and cruise missile in order to counter the threat . that be a brave decision by the leadership , and it centre on the UK and the US . the Prime Minister need to remind President Trump that when the UK and the US come together for a just cause , the world be a safe place . when we be divide , it be less safe — I do not care what anybody else say . that relationship be critical to peace and justice in the world , and I hope that he succeed in achieve that . we know that President Putin be keen only on sovereignty , and the reality be that this be critical for our understanding of what peace would amount to . we must not lose sight of the fact that Ukraine be important . it be important to the Americans in a way that sometimes I do not think they fully understand . I speak early about the road to Taiwan and the threat to Taiwan . the war in Ukraine have damage the global economy , at a cost of about $ 1 trillion , but any seizure of Taiwan would cost the economy near $ 10 trillion . to those who say , " why should we in this country be worried about Taiwan ? " , I say that 72 % of everything produce in the world today be make in the area around Taiwan . People can not tell I that Taiwan be not as important as Kent be to the United Kingdom — it be exactly the same . why do the road to Taiwan run through Ukraine ? it be because if we fail Ukraine and it get a terrible deal , China will look at the situation and say , " do you know what ? they ' re never go to step in here , because it ' s too far away . they win ' t do it — they never do . they fall out of Afghanistan . they didn ' t do anything when Crimea be take . they ' ve give in completely over Ukraine , and they will do the same over Taiwan . " that be why the road go to Taiwan , and we will be leave behind , because we will not have take the right decision . I hope the Prime Minister remind President Trump that if we fail on Ukraine , it will open up the world again to the rule of totalitarian state , which will come again and again . as Churchill say , the " bitter cup … will be proffer to we " again and again . every time we fail , and every time we do not stand up for those who struggle for freedom , democracy or justice , they will take that and move on . we have learn this lesson so many time , but we seem to forget it and have to learn it again . we must stand with the brave ukrainian man and woman , who have lose so much and be go to lose even more . if we be not with they and do not find a way for Ukraine to remain a free nation of free people and of choice , we be not worth the thousand of year of experience that we have gain from the fight that we have put up previously . all will become naught , because totalitarianism will rule the day . rise — order . as you can see , quite a few people wish to contribute , so I will have to put in place a time limit of five minute to begin with . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and his team for secure this important debate . I know that he have long be a champion of Ukraine ' s fight against Russia . member on both side of the House have loudly support the ukrainian cause and have make excellent contribution in debate prior to today , and I look forward to hear their contribution in this debate . I know that many member have recently return from the country and have see at first hand the horror that have be inflict on the ukrainian people . have visit the country in September , I vividly remember my experience . the cardiology hospital in Kyiv have be hit while child be on the operating table . I visit the cellar of a school in Chernihiv oblast , where over 300 villager , include woman and child , be round up and hold captive in March 2022 . Valery , a former captive hold at the school , will forever be haunt by what he see and experience . over 100 people be stuff into a room so crowd that people be gasp for air , include a baby who be less than two month old . I ask Valery how he have the strength to go back there and revisit the site with we . he say that the story have to be tell , and that people need to understand the russian soldier ' lack of humanity . that school will forever be a marker of the Russians ' brief occupation of the village . it be remarkable that three year after the start of the full - scale invasion , civilian can still sit in caf é s and restaurant in ukrainian city , where life appear normal — that is , until the air raid siren sound . it be a haunt reminder that the Ukrainians be sacrifice a great deal not just for themselves but for we , our value and our freedom . regardless of whether it be our predecessor stand with Churchill or the creation of NATO under the stewardship of Ernest Bevin , the Labour party ' s record on defence have stand the test of time . I be so proud to live in a country that have stand up and stand tall in the face of russian tyranny and imperialism — not only through support the ukrainian military , but through our welcome those flee the war . the United Kingdom have welcome over 218 , 000 people who flee the conflict through the Ukraine family scheme and the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme . in the east midland , we have take in 8 , 739 Ukrainians , with my local authority of Amber Valley welcome nearly 250 . I do not want to spend more time restate the word and sentiment of those across this House who be support Ukraine . I be sure that many on the frontline be not pay much attention to our platitude and tribute while wave of russian assault pummel they , and nor will those in city shelter from what , only a few day ago , be the large drone attack of the war be comfort by word alone . no matter how beautiful our rhetoric , Ukrainians do not sleep any well at night for those word . I welcome the decision to bring forward the 2 . 5 % spending commitment to 2027 , and this money can not come soon enough for the people I meet in Ukraine . I also welcome the further money allocate to our intelligence agency to protect this country from the various threat Russia pose , include cyber - attack . I welcome the Government lead the way , whether with the late round of sanction announce by the Foreign Secretary on Monday — the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green mention that — or the Defence Secretary chair the Ukraine defence contact group at NATO a few week ago . there be of course much more that we can do , and I urge the Government to consider how the abducted child , who be also mention , can be return from Russia . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for call this debate . I be very pleased to support his application to the Backbench Business Committee . before I start the speech that I have write , I want to say something about the ukrainian people . no one , least of all Vladimir Putin when he launch his illegal invasion three year ago , understand what they be take on with the ukrainian people . with their spirit , ingenuity and incredible ability to innovate and make the most of every single asset at their disposal , they have face up to a new form of warfare . at the same time , they have face not only the old school of tank , trench and almost hand - to - hand combat but the high tech of drone , digital and modern equipment . it show beyond doubt — a cautionary tale for other who may be think of invade a sovereign nation — how far people will go and how hard they will fight for their friend , neighbour and family , and how desperately they will defend their homeland , independence , language and identity . we should all take a moment to reflect on that , and we should pay tribute to they for their incredible bravery . I also pay tribute to the british people , who have react to this dreadful situation with so much warmth , and of course to the Government . our Government and the opposition be united , and we act very swiftly in the first day of the unprovoked and illegal invasion . Prime Minister Johnson lead from the front in his defence of Ukraine , and of the Ukrainians ' right to sovereignty and independence . he set the pace for other european country to follow , and he have the backing of the british people , who care about this . we care about this in my area of Gosport because we have skin in the game . it be an area with a very proud history of serve our armed force , particularly the Royal Navy . it be so typical of the generosity of spirit of Gosport people that so many Ukrainians make Gosport their home . I must declare an interest , because one of those home be , and still be , mine . I see the russian tank roll into Donbas and towards Kyiv , and I could not stand by and do nothing , so my husband and I join the Homes for Ukraine scheme . I have never speak publicly about that before . Gosport welcome over 300 Ukrainians to our area , and a few week after we sign up to the Homes for Ukraine scheme , my family and I be boost by two woman . they be still with we , and I now refer to they as my ukrainian wife and my ukrainian daughter . they and many other have be in the UK for almost three year . many of the refugee that the hon . Lady describe have three - year visa , but those visa be run out . be she worried , as I be , that the Government need to look at the extension scheme , and ensure that all the Ukrainians we have welcome have the ability to plan for the long term ? it be almost as if the hon . Member have read what I write on my bit of paper . it be miraculous . I want to know her lottery number for next week . she be exactly right . my own ukrainian family — and I call they family , because they be now part of my family — have make life for themselves in this country , and they have become an asset to our community . in the event of a sustainable peace deal , Ukraine will of course want and need its bright and good to return to rebuild the country , but so many of they simply do not have anything to go back to , such be the devastation that have be work by Russia in destroy 167 , 000 civilian building . UNESCO say that almost 500 cultural site have also be lose as a result of Russia ' s attempt to erase ukrainian heritage , and so many of the community that Ukrainians have flee just will not be the same . they will not have anything to go back to , and they will miss the familiar landmark , meet place and , most importantly and most sadly , the people they want to go back to . on the point that the hon . Member and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) make about visa for ukrainian refugee , do they recognise that the Government have already extend the visa scheme by 18 month ? that decision be make this month , and it have be welcome at least by the ukrainian refugee in my constituency . yes , that be very welcome . a lot of people from the ukrainian community want certainty about what to expect and about the security of the world around they . to follow on from an early comment , we hear a lot about planning for the war , but I want to know a little more about the Government ' s planning for the peace and work towards a day when many Ukrainians will be able to return to their home country . what about those here under the scheme who have make home , relationship and job here and be contribute to the economy and community in which they live ? will they be able to stay indefinitely ? People be begin to ask that question , and as much as we understand that Ukraine will want its bright and well back , there be some who simply do not have anything to go back to . to conclude , contrary to the messaging come out of the Munich security conference , there be value that we all share as european country , which we must now pay to defend . however , we must not just use word ; we must show action and we must show solidarity . I suppose I want to give the Minister , who I know care about this very deeply , the opportunity to affirm the Government ' s commitment that , as the geopolitical weather change , our dedication as a nation — and as a Government and an opposition — to Ukraine , its incredible and indefatigable people , and their democratically elect President , will never waver . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for call this debate . I be proud to support his application . I be with he on the trip to Ukraine a few week ago , with that fantastic charity , HopeFull , which he mention . if someone have tell I a year ago , " a year later you will be stand with the Conservative Sir Iain Duncan Smith in the snow , cook pizza , in Ukraine , " I would never have believe they . it be a fascinating visit and an important one . the visit highlight the cross - party nature of the support for Ukraine that the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) — I will call she my hon . friend — have point out . it be so important , particularly in comparison with other country . there be also a role for Back Benchers across the party to put pressure on our respective Front Benchers to ensure that we work together on this issue into the future . we be mark the three - year point of this absolutely terrible war , start by Vladimir Putin . it be an illegal war , and one of brutality and barbarism , and a conflict in which Ukraine be literally fight for its life — for its existence as a free and independent nation state . however , as the first line of the national anthem of Ukraine say : " the glory and freedom of Ukraine have not yet perish " , despite the good effort of the dictator Vladimir Putin . we hear early about the scale of the war and the destruction it have work . we have hear about the hundred of thousand of death of young man and woman on all side of the conflict ; the thousand of civilian — woman , girl and boy — kill and the many million injure ; and the almost 7 million ukrainian refugee , and many more internally displace people . the long they be away from their home , the less likely it be that they will return . civilian casualty rise by 30 % in the last year of the war . Russia have increase its use of aerial bomb , drone , missile and loitering munition . we hear about the ukrainian hospital in Kyiv — their version of Great Ormond Street hospital — which have be visit by many hon . member . what kind of a regime deliberately target a hospital ? landmine now contaminate 139 , 000 sq km of Ukraine , pose a real risk to civilian and the future of the country . in the last 12 month , there be 306 attack on medical facility and 576 attack on school — nearly double the number in the previous year . we talk about the rule of war not be follow by Vladimir Putin ' s armed force . disgracefully , the UN have record an alarming spike in the number of ukrainian soldier execute by russian armed force . there be credible allegation of at least 81 execute in the past six month . People make reference to ukrainian prisoner of war who be subject to appal crime — torture , sexual violence , and much , much more . then there be the child . Vladimir Putin face a warrant from the International Criminal Court for abduct thousand of child . the Yale School of Public Health humanitarian research lab say , conservatively , that there be at least 6 , 000 child hold at camp in Russia at the moment . there have also be the incredible spectre of north korean troop fight on this continent for a terrible dictatorship . I want to talk — very briefly , because time be short — about the security guarantee that Ukraine need . as the discussion about peace in Ukraine develop , one of my concern be the way that Vladimir Putin suggest that there should be limit on the ukrainian armed force after a peace . the good security guarantee be the one operate at the moment : a well - equip , well - armed ukrainian armed force — the brave man and woman of Ukraine who have hold back Vladimir Putin ' s evil army . the first principle in any discussion of security guarantee or peace be " nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine " . a further principle in those negotiation have to be the need to understand the character of the man we be deal with . he be a compulsive liar who break his word at every opportunity . that be why the guarantee be so incredibly important . after Munich , and the destabilising comment make by some character in foreign government , it be natural to be cautious in this place . we should be hard - headed , and should talk realistically about what Britain need to do . do the hon . Gentleman find it ironic that the conference at Munich seem like the shadow of a previous conference at Munich , at which the Sudetenland be give away , and which make it certain that the second world war would take place ? do he think that we may end up in the same position , if we be not careful ? I do . one interesting thing to note after Munich and recent discussion be that some of this stuff be not new . the United States have be tell Europe to pay for its own defence and to step up for many , many year . if the commitment to 2 % , make in Wales in 2014 , have be keep by all the country that sign up to it , we would have spend another £ 800 billion on our collective defence since that time . country need to step up and ensure that they meet their commitment . we need to be realistic about our role . we be a lead european partner , a lead member of NATO , and a lead ally of the United States . I worry that in the past two week , some people have be very quick to throw out 80 year of important transatlantic alliance , but it be crucial for the security of this country , and the security of our continent . I thank the hon . gentleman for that comment . do he agree that talk about the end of NATO be a very dangerous way of put thing ? we in Europe can not continue with NATO without the United States in it , and it be important to remind the United States of that . I completely agree , and that be why I have be reassure by the Government talk about our have a NATO - first defence policy ; the Prime Minister reaffirm that this week . give all the drama in the past couple of week , it have be reassure to see the steady hand and leadership that the Prime Minister , the Defence Secretary and the Government as a whole have show on these issue . they have react calmly and coolly to the challenge that have be pose . yesterday we see the whole House give the Prime Minister its good wish , and offer he good luck with his urgent task of convince President Trump of the importance of Ukraine to the security of the United States and Europe . there be also the very important link , refer to early , with dictatorship across the world ; we should not allow the principle of " might be right " to succeed , because then we go down a very dangerous road indeed . when this country be fight for its life — there be a dangerous tendency for british politician to always refer back to that time ; I be go to fall into that trap — Harry Hopkins , President Roosevelt ' s great personal friend , be here in the UK . he give a speech in Glasgow , to reassure Churchill in those dark day of December 1940 , which he finish with a quote from the Book of Ruth : " ' whither thou goest , I will go and where thou lodgest I will lodge . Thy people shall be my people … ' even to the end . " that should be the attitude of Britain , Europe and the United States to Ukraine — solidarity , unyielde support , and remember that the glory and freedom of Ukraine have not yet perish . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure the debate , and for give I the opportunity to support it . the third anniversary of Russia ' s late full - scale invasion of Ukraine be a point at which we must all reflect not just on the war , but on what be at stake for all of we . last week , I attend a gathering in my constituency , where I meet Ukrainians who , I be happy to say , have find a home in Lewes and across Sussex . many of they arrive in the UK flee war , but they have do far more than rebuild their life . they have form support network , keep ukrainian culture alive — their singing be really beautiful — and send aid back home , include Christmas present for child in ukrainian hospital , child whose life have be shatter by russian bomb . I often think of the child still in Ukraine , child just like mine . three year ago , they would have go to school in the morning , come home and play with their friend and sibling , have a bit of dinner and go to bed , only to be wake up in the night by air raid siren and their parent rush they to underground bomb shelter , where they will have listen to russian missile smash into their home above their head . that be the reality of this war for innocent people — family and child whose only crime be live in a country that Putin decide to target . as we can all see , ukrainian resistance have be nothing short of heroic . for three year , against the odd , the ukrainian people have proudly stand their ground , fight not just for their own freedom , but for the kind of world we all want to live in . Britain must be clear : we stand with Ukraine . from day one , the UK have not only provide military aid and training , but put economic pressure on Russia . british family have open their home to ukrainian refugee . today , however , the west ' s commitment be be test in way I never think I would witness . with President Trump peddle russian propaganda directly from the White House , the future of US support be uncertain . let I be clear : if America waver , then Britain and Europe must step up . that entail action , not just word . Ukraine must have the necessary weapon , economic support and long - term investment to not only survive , but win . that mean go even far , defrost and seize the billion in frozen russian asset stash in London , Paris , Berlin and elsewhere , and convert they into a financial lifeline for Ukraine . the threat be not limit to Ukraine . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green mention Taiwan and how heavily that part of the world be affect by this situation , but I draw attention to Russia ' s hybrid warfare close to home . it be target and destabilising country such as Georgia , Moldova , Romania and Belarus . Kremlin - back elite such as Belarus dictator Aleksandr Lukashenko and georgian oligarch Bidzina Ivanishvili be work to undermine democracy and pull their country back into Moscow ' s orbit . Britain can not allow Putin ' s crony to operate unchecked . we must follow the US and the European Parliament in sanction those enable his war machine . if Putin be allow to win in Ukraine , he will not stop there . he will redraw Europe ' s border by force , and other tyrant will be watch . this be not just about defend Ukraine ' s sovereignty ; it be about defend the liberal , rule - base international order that safeguard we all , an order our nation help to build to constrain great power from exploit the less powerful by , for instance , extract valuable raw material at the point of a gun . some say Britain should step back , abandon our ally and retreat from global leadership , but history will judge the choice we make now . do we appease aggression , or do we stand firm in the face of tyranny ? as previously mention , we all wish the Prime Minister well in his discussion on these issue with the US President today . there be no middle ground : either we let Putin tighten his grip on Europe , or we push back . look to the future , any peace deal must be just that , and not a temporary ceasefire that allow Putin ' s force to rest , rearm and go again . it must be back with real security guarantee and clearly state that Russia start this war , and that it bear responsibility for the consequence . some speak about pick side in the new geopolitical landscape , but there be only one side that the UK can back : the side of freedom , the rule of law and the liberal international order — the side that reflect the value of this country and , I believe , this House . so , as I say , there be no middle ground : either we let Putin tighten his grip on Europe , or we push back . we must push back by arm Ukraine , cripple Russia ' s war economy and standing unwavering in our commitment to Ukraine ' s victory , because its fight be our fight , too . this be a battle for freedom and justice , and a battle we can not afford to lose . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for bring forward this debate . I be happy to support it . like some colleague in the Chamber , I spend Sunday evening in an underground bomb shelter in Kyiv as Russia launch a massive drone attack on the city and many other across Ukraine . while it be a terrifying experience , I be proud to join the UK ' s cross - party delegation to Ukraine to mark the third anniversary of Putin ' s illegal invasion . it be , of course , a grim milestone in a conflict that have claim the life of thousand of innocent ukrainian civilian and displace many , many more . as the only female MP on the delegation , it would be remiss of I not to tell the House about the vital role that ukrainian woman be play in this conflict . as James Brown once say , it ' s a man ' s world , but it would be nothing without a woman . strength and bravery take many form , and ukrainian woman have show extraordinary resilience in not just defend Ukraine against russian aggression , but rebuild a nation that refuse to be break . as the House will know , when russian force invade Ukraine on 24 February 2022 , President Zelensky order that all able - bodied man age 18 to 60 be to remain in the country to bolster Ukraine ' s defence , but ukrainian woman also step up . today , more than 50 , 000 woman be sign up to the ukrainian army . one in 10 of those woman hold a senior position , and more than 4 , 000 be engage directly in frontline combat . this week , I have the pleasure of meet some of the woman who have serve on the frontline . there be no mandatory conscription for ukrainian woman , mean that every single woman who have sign up have do so voluntarily , drive by their immovable resolve to defend their home . however , woman be also play a vital role off the battlefield , and have be vital in sustain the economy against Putin ' s war machine . Ukraine have change the law so that woman can fill labour gap in mining , transportation , logistic and agriculture , ensure those critical sector continue to function in the face of bombardment and destruction from Putin ' s force . today , one in every two new business start in Ukraine be start by a woman . I meet woman this week who be camp out in drone factory , make the kit that be be send to the frontline . ukrainian woman be do all this while many of they have lose their father , brother and husband . the hon . Lady make a very powerful point . there be time in this place when it be very difficult to keep one ' s composure when speak — she be do a fantastic job . all our heart go out to those ukrainian people , and they certainly deserve all our support . I thank the right hon . Lady for her intervention . while those ukrainian woman be fight and sustain their country , they be also the mother to the 19 , 546 child who have be kidnap by Russia . I want to tell the House why the fourth point of President Zelensky ' s peace formula be so vital to ensure a just end to this war . when russian force invade the eastern oblast in Ukraine , they deport and forcibly remove child from Ukraine to Russia . this be genocide in international law as we know it . in one case , a child only eight month old be take by russian force . his new name and date of birth be unknown . Russia have consistently deny the existence of this child and thousand of other . some of these child end up in Russia ' s youth military , conscript to fight a war against the country they be bear in . this be a war crime . before any ceasefire , the 19 , 546 steal child of Ukraine must be return home . talk of tank , bullet , drone and machine gun be unlikely to move the mind of people who live so far from Ukraine . it be the story of the woman who be play an essential role in this war that will move those mind — it be their story , their fight for survival and their fight for the value of democracy that we in this House hold so dear , and must support with all our might . Slava Ukraini . I start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure this important debate , and salute he for the incredible work he have do in lead on this issue . as always , it be hugely hearten to see so many colleague from across the House in the Chamber . it serve as a timely reminder of the united approach that we have take on this issue and of our resolute and undiminishe support for the ukrainian people . in my constituency , we have welcome many ukrainian family , and I be always touch and move by their story of resilience in the face of the great hardship . many member have speak before I — not just in this debate , but through the course of the week — about the importance of the Government ' s welcome announcement of increase defence spending and the need for our ally also to step up to the plate . while I do not intend to repeat those argument today , I will add that we alone do not determine our defence spending : it be our enemy too , but it be also our ally . with the United States announce a potential step back from their support for Ukraine , it be clear that we as a nation have an overriding obligation not only to Ukraine but to our citizen and the wide world to step up and keep Putin ' s war machine at bay . if we fail to do so , we will be open the gate to totalitarian regime across the world . the reality be that the United Kingdom have armed force that be fit for peace . however , over the past eight month or so , we have enter a much more dangerous arena , and we need to be ready for any outcome . in the time available to I , I want to raise two further point . first , I reiterate the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green on the increasingly press need to release the $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset to aid the Ukrainian Government in the rebuilding of their country . secondly , I want to pick up on my right hon . friend ' s comment about what we can and must learn as an armed force from this conflict and from the heroic effort of the ukrainian military , with many make the ultimate sacrifice in defence of the sovereignty of their country . the war have show a clear shift in the nature of warfare and in the nature of each serve person ' s work reality . War be now in a much more hybrid state , fight not only in traditional land and maritime realm , but back in basis in remote location , yet we still follow traditional medical guideline set out who can serve and who do not have the opportunity to do so . this where I feel we can learn from Ukraine , which , very early on in the conflict , amend and adjust many of the medical requirement for its serve personnel . in our military , there be often a mindset of " soldier first " , which may well exempt someone who have suffer a knee injury while play sport at school , anyone with Raynaud ' s phenomenon , for example , or anyone wear glass over a certain prescription . rather than make a generic medical exemption list for the whole force , I invite the Minister at least to consider tailor the medical requirement to the position be apply for . for example , what be the chance of a person ' s glass be blow off if they be operate from a chair in a drone centre hundred of mile away ? what be the reality of an intelligence officer in a remote location look at satellite information lose the feeling in their finger due to the cold because of Raynaud ' s phenomenon ? what be the chance of a Royal Navy dental officer not be able to complete a check - up because of pain in his knee ? we need to be much more flexible . although I accept that there be a certain degree of hyperbole in my argument , the point I be make be a serious one . if we be to turn the tide on our recruitment policy and difficulty in this country , we need to tailor the medical requirement to the specific role . we must become more versatile and adaptive as a fighting force — like our friend in Ukraine . as a country , we be often guilty of prepare for the war that we have have , rather than the war that we will face in the future . as we reflect on the three year since Putin ' s illegal invasion , I say to the Government that we should not waste any more time or waste what we have learn at the cost of so many thousand ukrainian life . I congratulate the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure this debate and all those who have speak today . it be V á clav Havel who say that the good defence against tyranny be to live in truth . on this third anniversary , we have the opportunity to repeat some truth to this House — that Ukraine be a democracy , that democracy need defend , and that the good way to defend democracy be for democratic nation to come together with a unity of purpose around our value . we should not have to remind the world that Ukraine be a democracy , but some have impugn that . we in this House know that , at time , all democracy face challenge . let we be honest , this country once have to suspend election during the height of world war two . gosh , I be even old enough to remember when thousand of people invade the United States Congress because they want to overturn a democratic election and nullify the result and the election of President Biden . let we send a clear message from this House that we do not regard President Zelensky as a dictator . we regard he as a hero of democracy , and we in the west should have his back . we must also remember that , at time , democracy will need defend , especially against dictator — especially when it come to Russia . President Zelensky be on the frontline of an effort to re - contain Russia on behalf of we all . Russia be a country that invade its neighbour time and time again . it have be invade its neighbour since the day of Ivan the terrible . it have invade its neighbour on eight different occasion since 1945 — on average , that be once every decade since the end of the second world war . face with that threat , why on earth would we make concession now ? some 700 , 000 people have be lose in this war in Russia . Russia now face a NATO that be big and strong . Russia will run out of T - 80 tank in April , and it have lose more artillery system in the past year than in the previous two year put together . Russia , at the height of the war , control 19 . 6 % of ukrainian territory ; today , it control 19 . 2 % . in the face of that weakness , why on earth would we make concession now to those who want to make Russia great again ? we should confront they with strength , not weakness , because that be how peace be secure . finally , it be vital for we across the west to unite around our value , to celebrate those value and not to attack each other . I be worried that what begin as political improvisation in the United States have now become , under the new President , a political project . I be worried that some of the noise that I hear sound like the report that Thucydides make of the athenian threat all those century ago , which be that the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must . in this country , we know how that story end . when we talk about the rule - base order , we do not mean the rule of the poker table , or even the rule that we set out at the end of world war two . we believe not simply in a rule - base order , but in a right - base order . the right that ensure our freedom be enshrine in the UN ' s universal declaration of human right at the end of world war two and in the Council of Europe ' s european convention on human right , co - author by this country , base on Churchill ' s great vision of a great charter . those be the right that we should be celebrate , because they mean freedom for all of we . those right , value and freedom must be defend with strength , so the Prime Minister ' s decision to increase defence spending be right . this House will need reassurance that that money can be well spend , but , crucially , give the cut that be to be make to the aid budget , we must think hard , creatively and quickly about how we now lead a great multilateral effort to increase the amount of aid spend around the world . we need to think in this 80th anniversary of the Bretton Woods institution about how we reinvent the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for new time , so that they be big and well in the world to come . that be the way that we become evangelist for the right that be now be defend so valiantly by ukrainian force on the continent of Europe . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure this important debate . I recognise that , quite rightly , the debate have focus on our responsibility to support Ukraine ' s war effort against Putin ' s unprovoked and illegal attack in Ukraine , but I wish to talk about our continue commitment to Ukrainians here , as the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and my hon . friend the Member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) both mention . since the start of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , more than 218 , 000 Ukrainians have arrive in the UK under the Ukraine family and sponsorship scheme . I be incredibly proud of my constituency of Chichester , which have take more ukrainian refugee than any other city in this country , and those refugee have now become a value part of our community . now more than ever , we must stand firmly with our ukrainian friend , both in defend their sovereign territory and in ensure that those who be here can live safely and comfortably . the original visa scheme , as the Minister will know , be for three year , and with the three - year anniversary be mark this week , many visa be now expire . the Government have ask Ukrainians to apply for the Ukraine permission extension scheme , which will extend their visa for a further 18 month . however , they be allow to apply for that extension scheme only when their visa have 28 day or few leave on it . this be cause myriad difficulty for that community , include in their ability to renew employment contract , extend lease or set up new lease on rented accommodation , or commit to education opportunity . I have the opportunity to visit Bishop Luffa school in Chichester last month , and meet a group of ukrainian student , who have not only become well - like by staff and student , but have excel in their study and be expect to finish their a - level with high grade across the board in subject such as mathematic and the science . those student be the doctor and the scientist of the future , yet there be no clear direction from the Department for Education on how they should pursue high education — be it via the same route as their UK counterpart with whom they have study , as refugee , or as international student . I have raise this matter with the Secretary of State for Education and I hope that there will be clear guidance in the near future for student who be desperate to study in the UK . I have speak to many ukrainian family who have make their home in Glastonbury and Somerton after flee russian aggression in Ukraine . many of they be concerned about the decision to exclude time spend in the UK under the long residence route , which be different from other scheme and could be subject to costly legal challenge . do my hon . friend share my concern about this ? absolutely , I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the fact that the time spend here be not count towards the right to remain or settle status . as the hon . member for Gosport mention , these family have find home and build community here in the UK , and they just want to know either way what will happen to they in the future . the young people I be speak about be often care for by one parent or by grandparent , while their other family member defend Ukraine ' s sovereignty . some family have report that estate agent be request from these single - parent ukrainian family a six - month up - front rental deposit . that be untenable across the country , but especially in area such as Chichester , where the average one - bedroom flat be £ 1 , 200 a month . employer be also ask for proof of visa status , which be cause family additional stress when they be wait for a visa decision , sometimes just day before their visa expire . for those Ukrainians on zero - hour contract , it be directly impact their ability to earn money to contribute to UK society and provide a safe home for they and their dependant . if the Ukrainians be give a 90 - day window before their visa expire , as originally propose by the Home Office , rather than the very short timeframe they be be give , the situation could be vastly improve . I thank Opora , the UK charity support Ukrainians here in the UK , for all the support that it be give those family who be navigate what can often be a complicated , convoluted and long process of reapplying for these scheme , and for take the time to brief I properly on the situation that these family find themselves in . today ' s debate will rightly be dominate by what we can do for Ukraine and our steadfast support across the house , but I hope that the Minister be work closely with his Home Office colleague so that , while we support the brave Ukrainians who be heroically defend their country , we can also continue to support the community of Ukrainians here in the UK . yesterday I read through a speech I make three year ago , in which I say : " Ukrainians and President Zelensky have display the high level of bravery in the face of brutal russian aggression . in the eye of Vladimir Putin , Ukrainians have make an unforgivable choice : they decide to be an independent and democratic country . like all dictator , Putin be terrify of lose power " — that do not fit with this plan of a great Russia again . my speech continue : " Ukrainians have make their choice . they want to be a european country . they want to become a member of NATO . they want to be free to make their own choice . make no mistake , Ukrainians be fight this war on behalf of all of we who be part of the free and democratic world . " I then say : " we must support they as if the future of our country and our way of life depend on it , because quite frankly , it do . " — [ Official Report , 15 March 2022 ; Vol . 710 , c . 833 - 834 . ] the world be watch the conflict . the dictator of the world have become emboldened over the past decade , in China , Russia , Iran and North Korea . Russia will push far , with Moldova seemingly next . my speech go on to urge more action , as Ukraine be ask for help , and each day decision be be deliberate . that should have be do much more quickly . as be say early , we be not fight this properly . the world be not together . it be a big issue — it be not just a fight between two country . it be Russia . it be Putin . he be an evil man . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , he be KGB . I thank the right hon . member for his wonderful opening speech . Putin be inhuman . North Korea be involve in this . China , Iran and North Korea be all work together on this . it have be plan . I agree entirely with what be say early . I be with some North Koreans here on Tuesday night . they be fight — they have 100 , 000 at Russia ' s disposal in Ukraine . when they be kill or maim , their face and hand be burn off so that they can not be recognise as North Koreans . that be how evil Putin be . in 2014 , Putin take Crimea without any consequence . he orchestrate the bombing that result in the death of 300 of his own people , to start a war to take power . he have his political rival shoot for oppose war . he approve poisoning on british soil , result in the death of a british citizen . he pre - record his declaration of war on Ukraine , after which he pretend to be open to diplomacy . Putin will not stop . he can not be appease . I understand why NATO could not get directly involve yet , short of that , we should have be do absolutely everything at a much speedy pace . I do not point a finger of blame at anyone , but we be not look at this as seriously as we should . this be as much a calamity as 1945 . last week , the world be shock . to quote Will Hutton in the Observer on Sunday : " the spill ukrainian blood count for nothing " as the elect president of the United States openly side with Russia " to achieve a peace that can only reward it for its unilateral aggression . as profoundly , the US president have launch a new era in which might be right , ' strong ' man carve up the globe , and international law and multilateral institution be eviscerate . nor , as the former head of MI6 Alex Younger tell BBC ' s Newsnight , be there any go back . " our thought and support be with our Prime Minister , especially today . we wish he every success in his discussion later today . we all have to step up and be absolutely united . we have to grow up , if I may say so . we be talk about thing , but we should be look at other thing now . we be at war . it be so very important for the world . we in Reform stand united with the whole House in support of Ukraine and all brave Ukrainians against the monstrous tyranny of that most evil villain , Putin . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I have not even warm up ! I will make a little more progress . just over 13 month ago , I make a donation to acquire a 4x4 pick - up truck and to fill it with first aid supply , and I drive it with other volunteer to Ukraine to give it to those brave soldier on the frontline . I remember meet the extraordinary technician who be make the drone , include brilliant , bright child who be help to develop new drone technology . tragically , I stand in a cemetery and watch mum weep over the grave of their son . that cemetery have almost double in size in just 12 month . the maxim of peace through strength have stand the test of time — in history , today and in future . that be why in our contract at the election we have 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending within three year , and 3 % within six year . that be why we support the Prime Minister early this week when he make those same commitment . I hope that that 3 % will be a firm commitment within five or six year . peace through strength be vital . as other have say , we all want peace , not least the brave Ukrainians . it must be right to try for a peace deal , however difficult . Most war and conflict end up in some form of negotiation — however difficult , tough or tense . give how the hon . Gentleman start his speech , do he agree with the leader of his party , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who be probably not in Clacton right now , who say in 2014 that Vladimir Putin be the global leader he most admire ? Putin be a vile dictator . we all know that . my leader have also confirm that Putin be the aggressor in this war . I be just move on , in the time allot , to the issue of how we get to a durable peace . I respect the hon . Gentleman ' s personal position , but can he explain why the leader of his party think that the priority for President Zelensky should be to set a timetable for election , give that Winston Churchill , when face a dictator , do not hold election because we be under martial law ? the point about election be a good one , because any peace deal can only work if it have the support and involvement of all Ukrainians . in the second world war , we have election in the summer of 1945 , before the war have end , which be completely appropriate then . at some point the Ukrainians will need to be involve in support a peace deal , if we get there . a peace deal , however , be only durable — it only work — if it endure . that mean we need the security guarantee to ensure that the aggressor will never , ever attack again . it be those security guarantee that we must focus on , all be involve in and ensure that they be a strong , robust deterrent . if we get those security guarantee right , hopefully Putin and Russia will never try such a monstrous activity and invasion ever again . I , too , like many hon . friend and Members across the House , return from Ukraine only last night , after the monstrous 24 - hour journey . I be mentally and physically exhausted after the experience , and I can not sum up in five minute what I experience — I could talk about it for day , really . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and the UK Friends of Ukraine and b4nz — banker for Net Zero — for the visit they organise . it be truly fantastic to be there , but also deeply emotional . I have nothing but respect and admiration for the ukrainian people ; for their stoicism and resolve in get through this illegal war . they just keep function as though it be normal life . the building get bomb but they do not just leave they crumble on the ground ; they rebuild they . the soldier injure on the frontline be in hospital , but tell we they want to get back there as soon as possible . those be the ingredient for a country that be set to take on Putin and set to win this war . I experience two night in an air raid shelter . the first night be with my hon . friend . it be a little bit scary , but there be a sense of camaraderie between everyone there . I stay on an extra night because I be head up to Chernihiv the following day to meet the people up there . that night I be in the shelter alone , during which there be a lot of time to reflect , include on what be go on outside . the more the night go on , the more fearful I become , especially when I hear that there be not just drone but missile potentially fly around above my head . the Ukrainians go through that every night and have be for three year . a massive mental health and post - traumatic stress disorder issue be develop among ukrainian citizen , and we need to be there and ready to support they when they come through the conflict . it will be a really big issue for the country . up in Chernihiv , I have a chance to meet people who be on the frontline with Belarus and Russia . every single day , they be impact by the war in way that we can not imagine . I meet the governor , who have some statistic prepare in a presentation of how many building have be destroy this year , how many people have be injure and how many have be kill . he say to I , " oh , I be sorry , that statistic be wrong , because another building be destroy this morning and another three people be kill . " it be constantly change . the great message I get from Ukraine and its people be that they be incredibly grateful for the support that the United Kingdom have give they since day one and continue to give they today . they see we as the leader in the support to get they through this conflict , and that come from so many Ukrainians . this war be real . I witness that for myself , as do my hon . friend , with bomb out building everywhere and air raid take place . that be really bring home to I on the day in Lviv , which be not massively impact as it be close to the western border with Europe , but where there be a cemetery full of soldier just from the city . we walk to the back of that cemetery , where there be three grave that have be fill , with three people from Lviv bury that morning . there be three far open grave that three more man from Lviv be about to go into that afternoon . that be the reality of this war , and that be why we have to continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with the ukrainian people . they be rely on we . we have to be stoic . Slava Ukraini . I want to start by pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for provide we with this platform to show the House at its good , come together in the face of russian aggression in Ukraine . it be a chance for we to stand together in solidarity . three year ago , the world watch in horror as russian force launch their brutal , full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine . the image of tank roll across the border and the shelling of innocent civilian will remain seared into our mind forever . yet , despite the Kremlin ' s relentless aggression , the ukrainian people have show extraordinary courage , determination and resilience , and we have share some of those story in here today . they continue to fight not just for their homeland , but for the principle that underpin our own security here : democracy , sovereignty and the rule of law . I have have the privilege of visit Ukraine twice , first in 2021 during my time as a Foreign Minister and again in 2023 . each visit leave a very deep impression on I . in 2021 , I have the honour of stand alongside ukrainian leader at the launch of the Crimea Platform , reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to Ukraine ' s sovereignty . when I return in 2023 with the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , of which I be a board member — I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — the contrast be stark . I meet parliamentarian , civil society leader and local official , many of whom have lose love one in the conflict . their resilience be , and still be , unwavering ; their determination be undimmed . it be that spirit of theirs that must continue to guide we in this place in our response . the UK have lead the way in support Ukraine . the previous Conservative Government be among the first to provide advanced weaponry , include anti - tank missile , long - range precision weapon and air defence system . we play a key role in train ukrainian troop and co - ordinating international military aid , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to £ 3 billion in annual military aid until the decade ' s end . however , that support must continue to ensure Ukraine have the weapon and the strategic backing need to defeat russian aggression . let we be clear : this be not just about help Ukraine . this be about our own national security . Russia ' s action represent the most blatant breach of sovereignty and territorial integrity see in Europe since the second world war . if we falter in the face of that aggression , we invite further instability . we know that Putin ' s ambition do not stop at Ukraine ' s border . the threat that he pose to NATO ally , include in the baltic region , be real and grow . that be why I welcome the Government ' s decision to increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 . that be an important step , albeit overdue , and I commend the Government for recognise , as my party do , that our security require sustained investment . the war in Ukraine have demonstrate the power of people - to - people solidarity , as my right hon . friend for Chingford and Romford West — I hope I get that right . [ interruption . ] I be be prompt that it be Chingford and Woodford Green . my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) would be upset by that . he would be , actually . he be ever present . always present , isn ' t he ? the UK ' s Homes for Ukraine scheme have provide sanctuary to thousand of Ukrainians flee war . I pay tribute to the british family who have open their home , include those in my constituency , and the community that have welcome they with open arm . their kindness reflect the very good of our country . I ask the Minister whether the Government would consider some sort of recognition scheme or way of thank those family at the appropriate time for their kindness and generosity . this week , as we mark this grim anniversary , we must ensure that those displace by war continue to receive the support they need , both here and in Ukraine . we must remain resolute in hold Russia accountable , and our response must be unwavering , ensure that we tackle all aspect of russian aggression . let ' s be clear : Ukraine ' s fight be our fight . if we stand by Ukraine today , we strengthen our own security for the future . if we falter , we embolden aggressor everywhere . as member have say , a number of we be in Ukraine at the end of last week , and four day ago we be sit in a bomb shelter in Kyiv as the ukrainian military work to clear the sky of drone . Kyiv be a beautiful european city — one of the great city of Europe — fill with a freedom - love , well - educate population that be commit to liberate their country , and it be a place no different from our own . we be there as one of a 16 - strong delegation to the Yalta european strategy conference . never before in the history of that conference have that city come under bombardment while european parliamentarian be present , so great do Russia consider the risk of kill member of a NATO country . something have change , and we all know what it be . we need to wake up . for most of America ' s history , the country have be isolationist . after the first world war , it retreat back into isolationism . after the second , it would have do so be it not for the cold war . since the end of the cold war , September 11 bring George W Bush back into the world , have be elect on a programme of isolationism . all three democratic Presidents since the end of the cold war have in part retreat from international affair . that be the default status of America , and we have to wake up to that reality — it be not about a single american President . this be about the future of Europe . it be about the fact that we no long can rely on an american security guarantee . be we live in peaceful time , that would be worry enough , but the fact be that Europe be at war . the argument against appeasement have already be well make , and we know that if Ukraine fall , it would be a NATO country next and , in all possibility , a general nuclear war as part of Putin ' s quest to rebuild the russian empire . we must accept the reality that we be at war — a cold war , but a war none the less . neutral country do not attack UK infrastructure or test UK airspace and territorial water . neutral country do not release nerve agent into the street of Salisbury , or openly discuss in the paper , as they be do now , that the Americans have give they licence to bomb London . those be the action of an enemy state . since the announcement on Tuesday , which I greatly agree with , I have receive correspondence from constituent express concern about the cut to international aid . I want to be frank that many more painful decision will follow if we be to do what be necessary to ensure the defence of our country against an enemy power . we must mobilise . with no american security guarantee , the only choice be a european security guarantee , of which the UK must play a central role . for we , this will be a mobilisation not of man and woman , for the most part . if we must replace the total manpower of the US military , that number — one million — already exist within the ukrainian armed force . Ukraine do not need the people ; they be already on Europe ' s frontline hold back the enemy . they need our combine economic and intellectual power across the continent dedicate to our collective victory . speak with those in Ukraine , not only politician , soldier and analyst , but the everyday resident who we meet along our travel , they be determined to go on fight however long it take — alone if they must , hand to hand if totally necessary . we can not allow thing to come to that . three year into the combat , why do Ukrainians still want for bullet and shell ? why do they struggle to access sufficient electronic countermeasure ? why be we train soldier in batch in the UK and have not set up college in Ukraine to train they en masse ? if Putin be stand on the french coast , would we have not resolve this in month , if not week ? we be at war . it be a war we can and must win . to do that , we must be prepare to do whatever it take , start today . Slava Ukraini . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for his outstanding and comprehensive speech . many people have die in this war so far , and United Nations figure suggest that at least 12 , 654 civilian have lose their life and over 27 , 000 have be injure , with nearly 147 , 000 war crime commit and 167 , 000 civilian building destroy by Russia since the full - scale invasion begin . of course , the true death toll be likely to be far high , as Ukraine and international body do not have access to Russian - occupy area of Ukraine or area on the frontline , most particularly the city of Mariupol , which be largely destroy in the brutal russian siege . this be a tragedy that can not continue , and yet amid so much darkness , a chink of light be how this war have show the very good of our nation : our generosity towards Ukraine and how we have welcome refugee and work internationally to get co - operation against Russia . in my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage , the Vale of White Horse and South Oxfordshire district council have go a long way to welcome and help refugee , and many family have host they , enable by the Homes for Ukraine scheme . the village of North Moreton , with a population of just 350 , have host dozen of people , earn significant medium coverage for its generosity . many family have also be host in the small village of Brightwell - cum - Sotwell . I want to give an example of the journey face by one of those family . a mother and her two child , age 17 and six when they come , have already flee Donetsk in 2014 in the first russian aggression against Ukraine and then yet again in 2022 to the United Kingdom . the 17 - year - old subsequently manage to get a place at the University of Nottingham and have start his study . the mother take her six - year - old back to Ukraine last April , have miss her husband so much , and their UK host family be still in regular contact with she and her son . in Didcot , Stanislav of the Help Ukraine Group Support , or HUGS , have collect enormous amount of clothing , toiletry , tool and many other item and have send huge pallet over to Ukraine . one place that receive they be the Place of Kindness shelter for displace family in Chernivtsi , which have help shelter over 2 , 000 family , 147 orphan and 72 critically ill child . the same organisation collect and donate laptop to the Reading - base Ukrainian School Lastivka to enable child to get online and gain it literacy . I want to say a little about why I care so much about the Ukraine war , beyond the obvious reason . I have a polish mother , and Poland be a country that have also hugely suffer under russian oppression in the past and retain a genuine fear of that nation to this day . this war matter to Ukraine and to Europe , but it also matter specifically to we . we hope that Russia would stop after its 2008 invasion of Georgia — it do not . we hope that Russia would stop after annex Crimea in 2014 — it do not . we hope that Russia would stop after year of war in the Donbas — it do not . we hope that Russia would stop after its brutal bombing of Syria in support of dictator Bashar al - Assad in the late 2010 — it do not . it be important that we learn from that and ensure that any peace we do have do not far embolden Russia . where do we go from here ? well , our community and council need long - term support to continue host refugee and look after Ukrainians . many hon . member have already make eloquent remark about that . we all want peace , but it have to be on Ukraine ' s term . there be so much talk at the moment of peace guarantee . we should remember that there have be such guarantee before — under the 1994 Budapest memorandum , Ukraine give up its nuclear weapon in return for suppose guarantee of its peace — so we can not have cheap talk of guarantee now ; we need to learn why previous one do not work . of course , we need european defence co - operation and investment in our armed force . many hon . member have be optimistic that the United States will not turn permanently away from Europe , but in case that optimism be misplace , we need to build up our defence force and co - operate across Europe , use frozen russian asset , so that we have the high - quality and competent defence force that our continent need . this war have bring huge suffering to the people of Ukraine , destroy community , separate family and orphan child . however , it have also show the human spirit of justice , compassion and kindness to be a great unify force . we must now work with our european ally to secure the freedom and prosperity of Ukraine and our continent . keep our nation safe and preserve Ukraine for the future mean show Putin that we and our european ally have the resolve and the resource to defeat he . show he that we would win any war be the good way to prevent a wide conflict . win war be a matter of resource be convert to fight force . we lose the first battle of world war two , but we win by convert our great resource ; Lincoln do the same during the american civil war . so it be now ; we must reduce russian resource and prepare ourselves . Russia ' s economy be strain at the seam . Putin ' s demand for war mat é riel be outstrip the ability of his economy to supply it ; the official inflation rate stand at 10 % , and we may possibly be talk about double that ; three quarter of russian firm face staff shortage ; Putin be lose tank three time more quickly than he can replace they ; and his national wealth fund have be halve . however , Russia be still out - produce we in shell and fighting force , and its armed force will reach 1 . 5 million personnel . Russia can rebuild , and Putin will rebuild and come back , so we can and must do more to reduce Russia ' s resource . first , we must seize central bank asset , rather than allow Putin to use they to rebuild his fighting force . secondly , we must strengthen the oil price cap by make London insurance for foreign port dependent on the proper verification of attestation document . thirdly , we need strong export control to stop western good end up in russian tank . that be what we can do right now . deter Putin and defeat Putin be one and the same . our economic power be great : NATO ' s GDP in Europe be 12 time great than Putin ' s in Russia . convert that economic power into fighting force be what we must do next . prosperity mean nothing if we do not have the force to defend it , so , yes , this be about the percentage that we spend on defence , but for Europe as a whole it be also about so much more than that : long - term order to build production capacity , secure strategic input such as steel , and the ability to scale rapidly if we must . if we do face war , we must be prepare for it . fight a total war — convert an entire nation ' s production to maximise fighting force — be a problem that none of we have ever know , but that could be the economic problem before we : maximise the production of war , gun , tank , drone . the rough outline of the answer be this : we must figure out national income , decide the maximum portion that can be allocate to war mat é riel production , and use taxis from those who can most afford they to transfer what be need to the Government . if demand run ahead of supply , it will lead to inflation . that mean ration consumption for more investment . investment will have to go towards war mat é riel , so capital control must be in place . we need import control , and quota to ensure that input such as steel be go towards war mat é riel . we must prepare for a financial world without lend - lease . those be the preparation that the Treasury should be make . we could not foresee the financial crisis or the pandemic , but we can foresee a great war in Europe . these be the time in which we live . in the dark day of our struggle against fascism , John Maynard Keynes write : " a reluctance to face the full magnitude of our task and overcome it be a coward ' s part . yet the nation be not in this mood and only ask to be tell what be necessary . " that be where the british people be — a nation that remember its fine hour — but where be we in this House ? be we prepare for the bad , so that we can prevent it ? be we show that we will convert our far great resource in order to protect Europe and ourselves ? be we ready to do what we must ? those be the question before we . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I inform the House that , as I want to get as many member in as I can , I will immediately bring the time limit on speech down to four minute — and it may go lower . I thank the other hon . member who take part in the visit to Ukraine for their powerful speech . I share their emotion about the visit . last Saturday be particularly emotional for I because I visit a recovery centre for wounded soldier in Ukraine . I meet a soldier call Volodymyr , who have lose both his leg in a drone strike on his vehicle . his comrade have try to rescue he four time , but each time they be turn back by drone attack . his tourniquet hold and , after nine hour , they eventually get he out . his spirit be unbroken . hear his story and see his courage be inspiring . we in Parliament and the british armed force have enormous respect for everything that the ukrainian armed force have achieve . Ukrainians continue to make an enormous sacrifice , yet every Ukrainian I meet tell I that they do not want Trump ' s propose ceasefire . they want to fight on , because they be fight to win . their choice to fight , and our choice to support their fight , be not warmongere ; rather , it be the choice to save life . Putin break ceasefire . he will regroup , attack again and kill even more . the only acceptable term be those under which Ukraine be victorious . Russia be vulnerable now ; in the past six month , it have fail to retake its territory in Kursk , and have suffer over 200 , 000 casualty to advance just 50 km in eastern Ukraine — 4 , 000 casualty per kilometre — largely because Ukraine be out - produce it in drone . Ukraine have a clear path to victory . european NATO gdp alone be 10 time the size of Russia ' s . however , we be not convert that economic strength into military power . Russia be still spend $ 40 billion more annually on the war than Ukraine and her western ally . if we close that gap and exceed that spend by seize the $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset , Ukraine will win . trump ' s propose ceasefire would free up 750 , 000 battle - harden russian troop , who could crash into the baltic state and achieve Putin ' s dream of restore the Soviet Union . it be far well to defeat Russia in Ukraine than end up directly at war . we can not trust Trump to defend Ukraine , and we can not trust he to defend we , so we must rearm . with article 5 in doubt , the small democracy , include the United Kingdom and Ukraine , must consider a new western alliance that be strong enough for we to defend ourselves together . it be particularly move to see Volodymyr because his sacrifice be also on our behalf . in fact , many Ukrainians remind I that they be compare their sacrifice to our sacrifice in 1940 , when it be our country ' s responsibility to defend democracy during our dark hour . we would do well to remember that legacy as we consider the fate of not just Ukraine but the free world . it be a pleasure to take part in such a well - inform and passionate debate . three year on from Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , the courage of the ukrainian people be an inspiration to all of we . I be at the Munich security conference , where it feel like the world change around we , and significant consequence flow from it . it be clear that any settlement negotiate solely between Trump and Putin would not be a dignified and secure peace for Ukraine . as democratically elect President Zelensky have say , there can be no peace in Ukraine without Ukraine , and no peace in Europe without Europe . european leader , include our Prime Minister and our Parliament , rightfully stand in full solidarity with he . with its war machine in full swing , we know that Russia would not stop with Ukraine , give the opportunity , and we must be clear that this be about security for the UK , too . our Prime Minister be do vital work in Washington DC today , with that in mind . the dramatic divergence of US and european approach really matter , and we have to be clear about how many other country now have an interest in Ukraine . with 12 , 000 north korean troop on the frontline , iranian drone be use and technology be provide by China , we be not just up against Russia in Ukraine ; this be about a group of state that be seek to disrupt an already fracture global order . secure a just and last peace in Ukraine have become the defining test of who our ally be in the world , and how far we be willing to go to defend the value of freedom , democracy and sovereignty that unite we . the last three year have see 2 , 236 attack on healthcare facility in Ukraine — the most ever record by the World Health Organisation in a conflict . these attack have increase in the last year and now occur almost daily . do my hon . friend agree that when this conflict end , we must examine closely the potential use of chemical weapon by Vladimir Putin during this conflict , as he have previously use they in Syria and other conflict ? some of we who be on the trip that have be discuss see that at first hand in hospital . I absolutely agree ; accountability be essential . More than a decade ago , Putin test the tactic of attack hospital in his operation in Syria , and the world stand by . the message about impunity spread , and we have subsequently see the same tactic use by other force in Gaza and Sudan , and now by Putin in Ukraine . child should never be target in war , and the International Criminal Court have an arrest warrant out for Putin for his deportation of ukrainian child to Russia . the stability and prosperity that we have enjoy in our part of the world for the last 80 year can not be take for grant . it be fight for , literally . democracy do not just happen . we have to want it , value it , work to keep it and protect it , and we have much work to do in that regard . in my previous work in war zone across the world , I often return home with the sense that conflict and disaster can happen anywhere . that be why we need to support our global institution now more than ever — institution such as the United Nations , and the framework of international law put in place after world war two . if we value those achievement , we must uphold and protect they . our Government be absolutely right to increase defence spending rapidly . I have see too many time as a former aid worker what happen when government fail in their most basic duty : keep their country safe . of course , fund this increase in defence spending through the aid budget be painful , and I say to those in the international development community in this country and elsewhere that I and other feel the pain . give the scale of external threat , we should all understand that further painful decision of a different kind may come in the future . I end by pay tribute to the ukrainian refugee I meet in Kirkcaldy in my constituency a few week ago . we owe it to those refugee , and to all who have fight for Ukraine , the UK and Europe ' s freedom , to now do whatever it take to defend our share freedom and security . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure the debate , although I do not know about the image I will have forever of he bake pizza in the snow . I rise today in support of the people of Ukraine . they have see their nation invade and devastate by bombing , their child kidnap , their mother and sister rape and many of their home , hospital and school completely destroy . in Leicester , like in the rest of this country , we have a tradition of stand up for the oppressed , the bully and the underdog . during world war two , RAF Leicester East — now Leicester airport — be home to the US 82nd Airborne Division , which play a major role in D - day and the liberation of Europe from the Nazis . Britain have show its compassion since Russia invade Ukraine three year ago , as the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) articulate perfectly . the british people have stand firmly and resolutely beside the ukrainian people , and one reason for that be our nation ' s tradition of stand up for the underdog . Russia invade Ukraine in the belief that Ukraine be weak and vulnerable , and that it would roll over and play dead while Putin take its land , identity and resource . what he discover be that Ukraine be an underdog that bite back , and the british people have wholeheartedly identify with its bulldog spirit . the ukrainian people have win our heart and our loyalty . their determination to fight on and to protect their home , their family and their culture have be painful to watch , but any nation that can so effectively fight Putin ' s military might deserve our unwavering support and the support of our suppose ally . what may be even hard to watch in the come month and year be the UK and other european country have a taste of what many small country have experience for generation : a new world order where the large power decide to redraw the map or steal mineral and other natural resource at the stroke of a pen , with the small country face menacing threat of much bad if they do not comply ; a new world order where those who pardon insurrectionist , who try to overturn the result of a democratic election and who to this day do not accept the result of the 2020 US election have the cheek to lecture long - stand european country on the imperfect nature of their democracy . our country must stand against this new gangster world dominate by a few bro in ivory , or even gold , tower , who trade the world ' s small nation between themselves like property on a Monopoly board . that be why , despite Ukraine ' s troubled past , its fight be our fight , and we must work with our european partner to ensure it win , regardless of the threat from Washington , Moscow , Pyongyang or even Beijing . who would have think that the future President of those brave soldier of the 82nd Airborne Division station in Leicester would align himself with today ' s equivalent fascist , rather than with the nation and people who fight to defeat that particular evil ? when Ukraine win , the new world order that the few gangster bro be try to establish will fail . that be why support Ukraine be so important and why european democracy have to step up and ensure they win . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure the debate . he speak powerfully and passionately , and with knowledge . imperialism be violent and tragic , divide community , separate family , and lead to untold death and destruction . that have be the grim reality for the ukrainian people for the last three year . I witness it at first hand in March 2022 , when I travel to the ukrainian border with Romania to personally deliver essential item generously donate by the people of Ilford . I witness the haunt scene of woman and child walk across the border into Romania with nothing but the clothe on their back at 4 am , with the temperature south of minus 10 º . I see that while Putin ' s aggression have attempt to shatter community and sow division , the ukrainian people have remain united , and have show incredible resilience , strength and perseverance . like many of my constituent , I be bear in India , and my parent live most of their life in India and what be now Pakistan . my family , my neighbour and the people of Ilford South well understand the consequence of imperialism — the scar leave by war of aggression , the theft of agency and denial of self - determination — which be why , when the invasion begin , thousand of local people in Ilford stand with Ukraine and donate so much that we have to hire van and appeal for additional driver to get the donation to the border . this week ' s sombre anniversary be a reminder of the suffering in Ukraine , the tragedy of imperialism and the necessity of take a stand — of do what be right , and confront aggression head - on . on Monday , the Foreign Secretary announce the large package of sanction against Russia since 2022 . on Tuesday , the Prime Minister announce an unprecedented increase in defence spending , the big sustained increase since the end of the cold war . we know the evil of imperialism , and we have learn from history that appease aggressor do not work . we will not stand by and allow the continue assault on a democratic nation . this House must remain united in its support for right over wrong . we will always stand with Ukraine . it be intolerable that the violence and bloodshed of Putin ' s illegal invasion , the wake nightmare of russian aggression work upon the ukrainian people , have wear on for three ghastly year . at the weekend I join local resident , include the ukrainian family who have find safe haven in our community , at a service of remembrance in Bishop ' s Stortford , organise by the Bishop ' s Stortford Ukrainian Guests Support Group . it be impossible not to be deeply move as we stand for a minute ' s silence to remember all those who have lose their life and suffer throughout this war , unite in our share hope that we will not have to meet again to mark a fourth year of violence in 2026 . I want to pay tribute to all of those in Hertford and Stortford who have show their support for ukrainian family in our community , and those who have gather in recent day to pay tribute to the ukrainian people in place include Bishop ' s Stortford and Sawbridgeworth . it be a powerful reminder that in Hertford and Stortford , as across the country , we stand firmly with the ukrainian people in their time of need . the ukrainian people stand resolutely against russian aggression and brutality , and our support for they must be unwavering . now be the time to redouble our support for Ukraine . successive british government have lead on this , the define moral issue of our time , and our solidarity with Ukraine bridge political divide in the House . it be right that the Prime Minister now lead the international call for ukrainian sovereignty , a long - term , secure future for its people , and a meaningful seat at the table in any future negotiation : nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine . I welcome the landmark 100 - year partnership with Ukraine to deepen security tie and build an endure partnership for future generation , and the action that the Government be take to step up and speed up our support for Ukraine at this critical moment . however , in a world that be more insecure and more unstable than at any time in recent decade , it be right that we do more to strengthen our security at home , and right that the Prime Minister have announce an increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 . I recognise that this decision come with difficult but necessary sacrifice , and I hope that in the come year the Government will chart a course towards restore spending on international aid as soon as fiscal circumstance allow , alongside increase defence spending . their first priority , however , must be to safeguard the british people at home in the face of what be a once - in - a - generation moment for the world , and I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement this week . finally , I wish to put on record my admiration for the spirit and bravery of the ukrainian people , who have endure so much — and will no doubt endure more — not just since 2022 but over the course of many year of unacceptable russian aggression . for those ukrainian family who have find safety in our community , I hope for a future when they be free to choose to return to rebuild home in a peaceful , secure Ukraine , or , if they wish , to remain in Hertford and Stortford , where they will always , always be welcome . I commend and thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for set the scene so well , and for his passion for this subject . in all the year I have know he in the Chamber — he have be here much long than I — he have always be a stalwart , and I thank he for that . I think we all owe he a debt . I do not much like bully , and Putin be clearly a bully . now that there be a big boy in the playground , with President Trump of the United States enter the play , Putin seem prepared to make change and the rule be change . of course that be to be welcome , but I have a real and abide concern that memory will be deliberately short . I have a real concern that as we strive for peace — as we should — we will minimise the atrocity that the people of Ukraine have suffer over these three year , and that can not be allow to happen . my mind be immediately draw to Bucha , and while I have no desire to stir up anger and anguish , we need to ensure that we remember who and what we be deal with , and why it be essential that our support for Ukraine be as unwavere today , during any brokerage of peace , as it be during those first few day of war . Human Rights Watch researcher who work in Bucha between 4 and 10 April , just day after russian force withdraw from the area , find extensive evidence of summary execution , other unlawful killing , enforce disappearance and torture , all of which would constitute war crime and potential crime against humanity . those who sanction this behaviour be those with whom we deal now , and this must remain in our mind . we need accountability , so that those who carry out atrocity will be make responsible for their brutality . girl as young as eight and woman as old as 80 have be rape and abuse . russian crime against humanity must be take to the International Criminal Court , which must make those responsible accountable in whatever way it can . if only the death penalty be still in place , I would certainly seek that for they . in Northern Ireland we deal with the bare face of evil for too many year . we see hatred overcome basic humanity as mother and child be blow to piece in a fish shop on a Saturday afternoon by irish republican terrorist . no cause can justify that . we see the face of evil when people be burn alive with a napalm - like substance in the La Mon restaurant in my constituency . we see the face of evil when people be massacre in church . all that remind I very much of the atrocity suffer by the people of Ukraine as I look back on the last three year . I live through those thing in my lifetime , and they remain with I . it grieve I that that face of evil be still at work , and that such atrocity and disregard for human life — for woman and child — have be replicate in Ukraine . they be replicate in Bucha as woman and child be murder . in February , the body of a Ukrainian Orthodox priest be find in the street of Kalanchak , in Russian - occupy Kherson . accord to his bishop , russian military force have " torture Fr Stepan to death " . that be the Russians , and they must be hold accountable for their brutality . we hear of such evil deed be repeat throughout Ukraine . again , my intention be not to drag up these matter in order to cease the striving for peace ; I believe that peace be need , but I also believe that accountability be need , and that while we work for peace we can not allow the trauma of this war to fade into insignificance . these crime matter and those family deserve not to be forget . my thought now , on the third anniversary of this dreadful war , be as they ever be : that we stand with Ukraine ; that we must fulfil our moral duty to they in war , or indeed in peace ; and that there must be no doubt that the hand of friendship of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland remain firmly extended to those family in Ukraine at this time and in all the day ahead . a pile of dark brown mud next to a hole in the ground ; a hole frame by plank of wood cover tightly in smooth , matt - black sheeting ; four rough wooden handle jam in as the mud harden around they , with invisible silver shovel bury beneath — a pile of mud and four shovel in the sharp , harsh , dry cold of Lviv : that be the image that I have have in my mind for every wake minute of every day since Saturday morning . it be the picture of a newly dig grave in the cemetery of hero in Lviv , Ukraine , as mention early by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) . for I , that image encapsulate the four - day trip from which I and other mp from across the House return early this week . it might sound an unusual thing to say , but this graveside be not simply one of sorrow , nor just of pride , nor just of memory ; it be one of defiance and resolve . that image encapsulate for I the emotion of all of the people of Ukraine . they have take the punishment dish out by a criminal dictator - bully for three year . they have not only withstand the daily bombardment , but thrive underneath their air defence umbrella . in a position where every day represent a struggle for survival to the next , Ukraine have be able not only to fight and reach the next day , but to plan for a prosperous future . in health , education , technology , cyber - security , the scaling of innovation and in culture , the ukrainian people be shape their long - term future even as they take to shelter every night . this be not just " keep calm and carry on " ; this be " keep calm , win the present and build the future . " the ukrainian people want peace — of course they do — but they will not accept peace at any price . we ask over and over again , " what message do you want we to deliver back to our country and our Parliament ? " the answer be always this , something so simple and obvious that it be hard to believe it have to be restate : " Russia have conduct an unprovoked invasion of Ukraine — Russia be the aggressor ; Ukraine the victim . " we have have 20 year of warning , from the murder of Alexander Litvinenko in 2006 to the first invasion of Ukraine and the public poisoning in Salisbury , and then finally the full - scale invasion of our ally . do my hon . friend agree that Russia ' s past behaviour , with Putin seem to sign up to agreement but then not follow they , be precisely why security guarantee for Ukraine ' s future be so important ? I could not agree more . I grow up in Berlin during the cold war and could hear russian artillery and helicopter practise on a live firing range , so that have always be present since I be very young . we must not misunderstand the gravity of this moment . geopolitical stability and security will be the defining issue for this generation and this Parliament . it be incumbent on we to do whatever it take to keep british people safe at home and abroad and to support our ally . that be why I fully welcome and endorse the decision this week by the Prime Minister on defence spending increase . however , as I argue in this House in December , 2 . 5 % and even 3 % should be see as a floor for our defence spending , not the ceiling . this government have already take one difficult decision and there may well be more to take in the future . I suspect that before long the Government may conclude that they must go even far or fast , or both . if they do so , they will have my full and total support . that be not to crave the spending ; it be to accept the reality of the world we live in , not the world as we would wish it to be . while the public clearly support the increase spending on defence , it be incumbent on all of we in the House to ensure that the reality of the danger and threat that this country face be bring home , as be the fact that this might mean even tough decision very soon . while a war in Ukraine might feel abstract , as I see over the past few day , that war can very quickly come to these shore , and in a variety of way . the mission of all side of this House be to maintain that unity and communicate that reality and to bring the public with we on a long - term journey that will be difficult . with the 100 - year partnership agreement sign by this government , we have the foundation of a long - term relationship with a country with which we share so much , and with which we be stand shoulder to shoulder . on that foundation we can build a last peace . I want to end with a quote by JFK . in the same speech in which he call for peace " not merely … in our time , but peace for all time " he say : " there be no single , simple key to this peace ; no grand or magic formula … genuine peace must be the product of many nation , the sum of many act . " Ukraine have take several of those many act and the UK be one of the many nation . it be incumbent on we to continue act until we find the peace we all seek . Ukraine be a country that never seek war . as we speak today in this House , people who be once administrator , chef and mechanic be sacrifice their life on the frontline to protect their home and family . it have be a privilege to be in the Chamber today to hear some of the speech from hon . member who have be in Ukraine over the last week and have tell their story so powerfully ; I thank they for do that . the people of Ukraine have , over the past three year , defy the odd at every turn and have a President unmatched in his bravery . President Zelensky look down a smartphone in February 2022 , stare down Putin ' s war machine and pledge to defend the right of his sovereign country to exist and the right of his people to be free . he have do so ever since . successive Prime Ministers have stand at the Dispatch Box and be absolutely right to offer british military and financial aid . the fight to protect Ukraine be a fight for democracy and for our share value . for three year this cause have bind together Europe , the United Kingdom and the United States , but there be no doubt that we have reach a crossroad , a moment in time that will shape the future of Ukraine and Europe . on 14 February , the vice - president of the United States make his keynote address at the Munich security conference . he say : " the threat that I worry the most about vis - à - vis Europe be not Russia … what I worry about be the threat from within : the retreat of Europe from some of its most fundamental value . " it be a very sad and serious spectacle : a US vice - president seem to downplay the significance of Putin ' s aggression in Europe — aggression that , as we have hear today , have lead to the death of hundred of thousand of people , with million more drive from their home . if his primary concern really be freedom of speech and expression , he would do well to look close to home . just this week , journalist from Reuters and Huffington Post be deny access to the first Cabinet meeting of the new US Administration . what I worry about be an agenda that claim to champion free speech but be actually seek to promote favourable speech . those be two very different concept . the word of the vice - president serve as confirmation that a period of US history be end . the republican party of Eisenhower and Reagan be sleep . it may well wake again in time , but for now it lie dormant . in Kyiv , Brussels , Paris , Berlin and here in London , we have to respond to the world as it now be . a peace deal fully support by the United States and Ukraine and Europe must of course remain the central objective , and our Prime Minister be absolutely right to pursue it . however , as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) tell the House , a deal can not just mean the absence of war . peace be what the people of Ukraine deserve , but we must never countenance a settlement that be not agree to by President Zelensky . return to Munich , there be one sentence in the speech of Vice - President Vance that I could endorse : " to believe in democracy be to understand that each of our citizen have wisdom and have a voice . " on that , he be right . our citizen do have wisdom . in the United Kingdom , they have the wisdom to look to the history of our continent and see the danger of fail to stand up to aggressor until it be too late . they know that now be the time to make our voice hear , and to say loudly and in unison that we stand with Ukraine . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure the debate and for his bravery in go as far as Kharkiv . I admire his work and advocacy . I associate myself with everything that hon . member have say , especially about the bravery of the man and woman of Ukraine , who be stand up to Putin every day and fight not just for their own freedom , but for our freedom . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and I have just come back from a week in Ukraine , where we have an opportunity to speak to a number of mps , Ministers , industry leader and those in civil society . I will focus remark on the need for drone technology , which be paramount to we win in Ukraine . as many hon . member have say , we face an existential crisis . the increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of GDP be important , but it be vital that we get beyond that , to 3 % and more . from my trip last week and from my previous visit , it be clear that Putin be not go to stop at Ukraine ' s border . if Ukraine fall , then NATO country , and baltic country in particular , be in the firing line . it be important that our constituent understand that this war be not about other people ; it be a war about we as well . turn to drone technology , in a meeting with Deputy Defence Minister Sergiy Boyev , I be tell : " Ukraine need a fleet of drone that possess the same characteristic as the Kalashnikov . " what he mean by that , as be reflect back to I by the chair of the Ukrainian Economic Affairs Committee , Dmytro Natalukha MP , who I know other hon . member have meet , be that Ukraine need something like a Kalashnikov — a fly Kalashnikov , if you will — because it be standard issue , easy to manufacture , reliant on available common part and comparatively cheap . such technology alone will not match the existential crisis we all face , but it could play a vital role in the war . however , in order to get such technology , the drone sector need to be able to access UK capital . we need more joint venture between our defence company in the UK and ukrainian defence company . I want to underline why these drone be so important . there be now many different type of drone . there be massive drone , like the one the Iranians be unfortunately supply to Putin ' s force , such as the Shahed drone . when I be in Ukraine , I spend some time in a bunker because at one point there be 50 shahe drone overhead . there be also drone that be necessary to hold ukrainian position and to help the Ukrainians to advance . as the security adviser and expert James Rushton , whom I have the opportunity to meet while I be in Ukraine , tell I , small recon drone such as the DJI Mavic be the difference between an entire platoon of ukrainian troop survive or not . they can help the Ukrainians to know if the Russians be come over the horizon , so they can get away in good time . the converse be true , as they can also help the Ukrainians to hold position and to advance . it be important that we get to a place where we be able to provide more capital to ukrainian company , to help they with the part they need and , collectively with european ally , to help they produce some standard and cheap type of drone , as they will be vital in the war . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and other for secure the debate , of which I be proud to be a co - sponsor . many excellent and learn point have be make . there have be a real show of unity from the House and we can all be proud of the debate today . three year ago , peace be break . the world wake up to something we hope we would never see again — full - scale war in our backyard . russian tank be roll into Europe , across Ukraine ' s border ; missile be light up the sky and the fire of war rip through home . there be complete and utter destruction of harmony and innocence , with people grab whatever they could and flee for their life . russian force have brutally invade their sovereign neighbour . Putin , the dictator , think this would be over in week , yet because of the tenacity , fight , bravery and leadership of Ukraine and Zelensky , here we be three year on . today Ukraine be still fight , and not just for its land but for its survival . it have be say many time before but I will say it again : if Russia stop , this war be over ; if Ukraine stop , it lose everything . so today , before anything else , we pause to honour those who have pay the high price ; the parent who have bury their child ; the soldier who kiss their love one goodbye , not know if they would ever return ; and the civilian who once live in peaceful village , now reduce to rubble . million have be displace , hundred of thousand have be kill , and school and hospital have be destroy in target ballistic missile strike , among other act of terror and war . People have endure torture , execution and sexual violence , they have have their child snatch and send to Russia , and there have be horror that we in Britain would struggle even to imagine , never mind put into word . yet despite all that , the flame of hope for a free nation , Ukraine , not just stand but fight and refuse to surrender or be footnote in the history of the brutal expansionism of that barbaric , mad tyrant in Moscow . we all like to think that in that scenario we would do the same , and that we would kiss our love one goodbye and fight for our country , our family and our way of life . Ukrainians have be do that now for three year , through smoke , rubble and fire , and attack after attack . they have stand up and say to Putin , " not we — not Ukraine . " it be in honour of that bravery , spirit and flame of hope that we must proclaim : to not an inch of Ukraine be Russia entitle ; not a metre of Ukraine belong to Russia ; not a mile of Ukraine be in Russia ' s sphere of influence by divine right . that air , that soil , those people and those child be ukrainian . we stand with they today and every day , for democracy , for freedom , for sovereignty , for decency , and for the world that we want to believe in — no surrender , no appeasement , no deal without Ukraine at the table . we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . Slava Ukraini . I thank the member of the Backbench Business Committee and the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for grant and lead the debate . three year ago , we watch as missile rain down on Ukraine from Kharkiv to Lviv , damage even the Holocaust memorial at Babyn Yar . anyone who have stand in that space will share the sense of revulsion at that desecration . a motorised column , report to be some 40 mile long , advanced on Kyiv and its advance group leave a horror of murder in their wake . this be the terrible return of unrestricted industrial warfare to Europe for the first time since 1945 . the goal must be state bluntly : the russian state seek the destruction of ukrainian sovereignty and ukrainian national identity . the proof of that assertion can be find in body that be lay out in Izium , Bucha and Kherson , and , I fear , in many other place whose name be not know to we and that only liberation will identify . when we think back to February 2022 , we must remember the hope that could quickly be find among the despair . a small ukrainian force defeat the Russians at Hostomel airport , and on such a fine margin , the nation may have be save . the action of successive UK Governments and the unity of this House have , as many other hon . member have say , be essential to that ukrainian struggle for liberty . out of war have come new bond of family and friendship . I pay tribute to the member of the british armed force who have train Ukrainians and to the Royal Centre for Defence Medicine in Birmingham — they have learn from we , and , as be say early , we have learn from they . I also pay tribute to all those who have act as host as part of the wide support network for ukrainian refugee . one of the most valuable thing we can do in this place be repeat ukrainian voice . I will quote one — that of Ivanna Khrapko , the youth chair of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine , who it have be my pleasure to come to know over the last couple of year . ahead of a TUC vote some 18 month ago , she say : " of course we want peace , more than anything . but we want a just peace , without occupier in our country . " as Oleksandra Matviichuk , the head of the Centre for Civil Liberties in Ukraine , which hold a Nobel peace prize , say : " peace can not be reach by a country under attack lay down its arm , that would not be peace but occupation . " I hope that message — so eloquently articulate by Ukrainians , who know the russian regime well than anyone — be hear by all those currently make decision about Ukraine ' s future . I can not go into detail in the very short amount of time available , but the issue identify by the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) with regard to the Ukraine permission extension scheme have be hear in my constituency as well , and I hope that minister be monitor those concern closely . I close by echo one last ukrainian voice — that of Taras Shevchenko , who write in a poem almost 200 year ago , also under russian occupation : oh bury I , then rise you up and break your heavy chain and water with the tyrant ' blood the freedom you have gain and in the great new family , the family of the free , with softly speak , kindly word remember also I . the word ring true today . if one message be to go from this House today , I hope it be this : our nation ' s support for the ukrainian cause be constant , not pass . we remember Ukraine , and we will stand with Ukraine and with our ukrainian friend to the end — to the very end — and to the hope - for day , as hard as the path may now be to imagine , when all Ukraine will be free . in the short period of time I have , I will say this : we face a critical moment for our nation , for Europe and for the world . now be the time to uphold our value and to encourage our ally to do the same . that mean concrete step here and now to protect and defend Ukraine , as well as last agreement to ensure its security into the future . while this feel like a dark phase for european security , it be not the first time that we who believe in co - operation and the importance of alliance have have to argue the case with those who favour a more transactional , zero - sum approach to international relation . we must hearten ourselves that we have win the argument before , include with our american friend , and we must appeal to the noble instinct of that great nation . we be now at a hinge in history — perhaps the most dangerous one since the cold war — because at stake be not just the erasure of a nation , but the weakening of the international rule - base system and the transatlantic military alliance that have , in combination , underpin european security since world war two . even the concept of truth be be challenge , but I will not rehearse those point ; we all know that there be a truth , and we must defend it . we must not allow great power to trade Ukraine ' s future like a pawn in a game of chess , because at stake be the principle that bully must not prosper in our world . if they do , other nation will be next . indeed , the former british Prime Minister whose bust sit in the Oval Office once say : " an appeaser be one who feed a crocodile , hope it will eat he last . " the baltic state understand that . I strongly welcome the leadership that the Prime Minister have show in reassert our value and our commitment to increase defence spending and contemplate put peacekeeping troop on the ground . we must defend the right of any country to defend itself against invasion by its neighbour , but Ukraine be not just any country ; it be a beacon for those who value freedom . in its bravery and sacrifice , it be uphold the concept of not just its own , but every nation ' s sovereignty . it be defend the international rule - base system , international law , freedom , democracy , human right and , yes , we . we must remind our friend around the world that intelligent self - interest and uphold moral value be synonymous . if we do that , Ukraine will live on , the rule - base system will live on and , ultimately , a world that value and defend freedom and democracy against those who threaten they will live on . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . while I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate , it be one that we all hope we would never have to have , but I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for secure it . for more than three year , the brave people of Ukraine have heroically defend their country against a full - scale invasion , defy Putin ' s expectation and show the world their courage , resilience and unwavere determination . they have remind we all of what be at stake : the right of a sovereign nation to choose its destiny , free from coercion and tyranny . today , we be at a pivotal moment , with our Prime Minister in the US . this be a moment that will determine the future of our continent for generation to come . now more than ever , we must stand firmly in support of our ukrainian friend , resist Trump ' s dangerous flirtation with a deal that reward russian aggression , and work with our european ally to defend freedom and democracy . the UK must act decisively . that start with work with our european ally to unleash the £ 40 billion - worth of russian asset currently sit idle in bank , in order to give Ukraine a critical boost at this critical moment . the UN General Assembly have recognise Russia ' s obligation to make reparation for this illegal war , yet history show we that Russia will never voluntarily pay those reparation . by redirect these fund to Ukraine , we be not undermine the rule of law , but uphold it . some fear that seize those asset set a dangerous precedent . I argue the opposite — it set a necessary precedent . it tell the world that the international community will act decisively against those who wage unprovoked war of aggression . it be only right that those asset be repurpose for military aid , humanitarian support and rebuild effort . any negotiation about Ukraine ' s security must involve Ukraine itself . this war be about Ukraine ' s sovereignty , and its fate can not be decide in backroom deal between Washington and Moscow . I cautiously welcome report that the White House be engage respectfully with Kyiv , but this commitment must extend beyond word . there can be no ceasefire or security negotiation without Ukraine at the table ; anything less would be an insult to the sacrifice make by its people and a betrayal of the value we claim to uphold . support Ukraine mean more than military aid alone . it require long - term investment in defence manufacturing , joint procurement with ukrainian company , and a recognition that Ukraine ' s innovation in defence technology , robotic , artificial intelligence and prosthetic be unparalleled globally . the UK should actively support and invest in those sector , help to strengthen Ukraine ' s economy while also bolster our own security and technological capability . we must also stand with ukrainian veteran and refugee . More than 250 , 000 Ukrainians now call the UK home , and many of those who arrive here in 2022 will soon need to apply for visa extension under the Ukraine permission extension scheme . while that scheme grant those Ukrainians an 18 - month extension , it provide no certainty about their long - term future . we must ensure that Ukrainians in the UK have clarity about their right to remain , while understand that so many of they will return to their country once the war be over . if the US retreat from its role in global security , Europe must step up , and Britain should lead . the Government ' s pledge to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2027 be welcome , and we hope it will mean a reversal of the conservative party ' s short - sighted cut of 10 , 000 troop , but we must go far . give the increasingly volatile global landscape , the UK need to plan to far increase defence spending . now be not the time to play politic . the Government should recognise this and host cross - party talk to discuss a pathway to 3 % as soon as possible . however , we must fund this increase defence spending in the right way . at a time when Ukraine ' s economy have contract by nearly 30 % and its reconstruction need be estimate at nearly $ 500 billion , it be incomprehensible that the UK have choose to cut its international aid budget to fund the increase in defence . slash funding for global development while increase defence spending be like rob Peter to pay Paul . the UK ' s soft power be a vital tool in this fight , and we must restore our aid budget to 0 . 7 % of gross national income , ensure that our support for Ukraine do not come at the cost of abandon other vulnerable nation . defence , after all , be base on defence , diplomacy and development . the Liberal Democrats have set out how an increase in defence spending could be fairly fund by increase taxis on social medium firm and other tech giant , but the Government have choose to finance it by cut the international aid budget . this be a dangerous mistake ; weaken the UK ' s global influence will only play into the hand of Russia and China . we must also lead discussion about the creation of a european rearmament bank . lead by the UK and other like - minded european NATO ally , such a bank would allow we to collectively increase defence spending far and fast by raise additional private capital . that model would mean a more stable long - term financing system , enable the defence industry to innovate and increase production capacity . the question be not whether we act , but what happen if we do not . fail to stand with Ukraine will embolden Putin , undermine NATO and threaten european security . three year into this war , the stake could not be high . we must take bold action to stand up for democracy , for our ally in Ukraine and eastern Europe , and for our own security . I call the shadow Minister . it be an honour to have the opportunity to mark the grim milestone that be the third anniversary of Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for call this debate , and I pay tribute to all the brilliant speech we have hear from member on both side of the House , particularly my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . above all , though , I pay tribute to the people of Ukraine . without any provocation whatsoever , Ukraine have suffer vast casualty and a national trauma beyond our wild imagining , all force on it by an aggressive dictator and bully . if we ask ourselves why this war have happen , surely Lord Acton have the explanation , when he famously say back in 1887 : " power tend to corrupt and absolute power corrupt absolutely . " there be a reason why Putin can murder on our street , threaten nuclear war , harass our maritime and airspace , invade free nation , do away with his political opponent and care not a jot for a casualty rate in his own force of more than 1 , 000 a day . it be because he be not constrain by the check and balance of a democracy that hold he to account . he have absolute power , and he have use it destructively , regardless of the impact on his own people , let alone the people of Ukraine . Putin ' s motive be the motive of so many despot and dictator down the century : power lust and hunger for conquest . he externalise his nation ' s problem , which his corrupt oligarchy can never solve , and that ultimately lead to internal economic hardship and pain for all , bar he and his close elite . I be incredibly proud of the support that we give in government to Ukraine ; we provide the weapon to help it avoid an early capitulation , which would have be truly disastrous for Ukraine and the free world . in opposition , we have continue to stand resolutely with Ukraine , support the Labour Government to that end , as they support we prior to the July election . we wish the Prime Minister every success in Washington and hope for a last peace , in which Ukraine can finally enjoy the security it deserve . for all the talk of peace , and for all our effort to date , provide everything from tank to storm Shadow missile , and despite the incredible bravery of Ukraine ' s armed force in defy the odd to push back Putin ' s land and naval force , the day - to - day reality in Ukraine be one of continue bombing , pain and suffering for its people . a key question for we in this debate be : what action can we undertake this day to support the ongoing fight ? I turn to the subject of drone and rearmament , which be raise by the hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) in an excellent speech , but one aspect of rearmament speak to our own need to rearm . also , Ukraine will need rearmament on a far great scale , whether a settlement be achieve or not . if there be no settlement , the ongoing war will require that rearmament . if there be , the need to give Ukraine security about its future will also require a continued ramping up of military industrial production , not least to deter Russia , so now that the Government have confirm their plan for a sustained increase in defence spending , we must urgently unlock our domestic procurement to drive our defence industrial capacity and that of Ukraine . on Monday , I have the pleasure of visit a brilliant UK defence SME , Modini , which be create one - way attack drone and other capability for the British Army . when I launch the MOD ' s first - ever defence drone strategy about a year ago , the plan be to procure drone at scale for Ukraine , as we have do , and to learn from that to build a domestic industry capable of arm our own military . it be frustrating to hear from Modini what I have hear from so many of our good defence sme , which be that procurement be largely on hold . en masse , our fantastic firm be like a coil spring , wait for the Government to press " go " on procurement at the scale and pace we have need for month . like the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , I believe that a big step forward would be for our defence company to urgently forge new joint line of production with ukrainian firm in the United Kingdom , honour the pillar 1 promise in the 100 - year partnership to " establish strong and close defence cooperation and industrial basis . " that be so important because , for safety reason , ukrainian defence company that I have speak to want UK production , away from the bombing . they also know that partnering with UK sme will provide access to capital and ultimately a chance to feed into UK procurement . for the UK , that co - operation mean access to the know - how and expertise of those company with manufacturing capability that have succeed in a war as it be be fight . for our armed force and the MOD , it mean realise the cultural change that we need — be less risk - averse in procurement , and rapidly develop capability to enhance the lethality and survivability of our armed force in the near term . that will be particularly important should there be a peacekeeping force . ultimately , conventional war that be sustain for a long period be fight in term of factory production capacity , which be link to innovation . I do not agree with the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) about capital control — I think there be enough capital — but he make an excellent speech about the need to boost capacity . when I be the Minister for Defence Procurement , I look at multilateral procurement with NATO partner . whatever its current military capability , Europe have a vast industrial base that could scale up if there be the will power to do so , and if there be leadership from government . we lead at the outset of the war , and with our great ally , the US , reasonably ask we and our NATO ally to do more of the heavy lifting in confront the russian threat , we will need to lead again . that require leadership on industry and innovation in the UK and across Europe to massively boost our defence industrial capacity . I urge the Minister to do everything possible to accelerate partnership with ukrainian business that have deliver on the frontline , but which will be even strong with british backing . that will create british job , and will deliver a far great scale of production for both country ' armed force . we can and must continue to do everything possible to support Ukraine . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for initiate this timely debate , which it be an honour to close , and I be grateful for all the superb contribution from member on both side of the House . I be especially grateful for the powerful advocacy of Members who have just return from Ukraine ; they share their experience of what be go on there , and tell the story of the brutality of the russian onslaught . I have be in a bomb shelter in Kyiv as the air raid siren sound , which be a sobering experience . it stay with you , and it must . it be a reminder of the daily courage of our ukrainian friend as they resist Putin ' s illegal invasion . today we have have the opportunity to reflect on the most unhappy of anniversary . it be three year this week since Putin ' s illegal full - scale invasion of Ukraine — three year in which thousand of people have lose their life . million of ukrainian family have see their home and community destroy , and ukrainian child have be steal by Russia . although russian troop continue to make small territorial gain , both nation have become deadlocke in a war of attrition . but this be a war that Putin believe he could win in three day . thank to the extraordinary resistance and courage of Ukraine , Russia have be humble on the battlefield . three day have turn into three year , and today mark 1 , 099 day . the whole House will recall that when russian tank be bear down on Kyiv , President Zelensky be offer a ride out for his own personal safety . he famously reply , " I don ' t need a ride . I need ammunition . " that be churchillian heroism , wasn ' t it ? all party in this House have rightfully praise President Zelensky , the democratically elect leader of Ukraine . it be right that we continue to stand with he and his people for as long as it take ; I will come on to that in my remark . Putin ' s resource have be drastically wear down , with over 860 , 000 russian soldier kill or wound . the UK Government expect the grim milestone of 1 million russian casualty to be achieve in the come month . nearly 4 , 000 main battle tank and 8 , 400 armoured vehicle have be lose , and the damage and destruction of the once formidable Black sea fleet be testament to what a nation without a navy can now do with the right equipment and approach . let we not forget that over these three year , the UK have often be the first to step up to help Ukraine . this year , we will spend £ 4 . 5 billion on military assistance — more than ever before . to date , the UK have provide £ 12 . 8 billion of support and train over 51 , 000 ukrainian personnel with our ally as part of Operation Interflex , and we have commit to £ 3 billion a year in military support for as long as it take . we have continue to strengthen Ukraine in recent week . early this month , we announce a new £ 150 million firepower package , include drone , tank and air defence system . on Monday , the Defence Secretary announce that we be double our support for Ukraine ' s lifesave defence medical service , with a £ 20 million uplift in funding for Project Renovator . the UK have be repair and upgrade a military rehabilitation hospital in Ukraine , and provide training to ukrainian surgeon , doctor and nurse , and the funding will provide a major boost for this project . it will help ukrainian soldier to recover from frontline service , and help those who have suffer life - change injury while defend Ukraine ' s sovereignty . we also hear on Monday from the Home Secretary that we be turn the table on Putin by block russian elite and oligarch from enter the UK , and the Foreign Secretary announce the large package of sanction since the early day of the conflict , which aim to hit Russia ' s revenue and hamper Vladimir Putin ' s military machine . stand alongside our ally , we will do what be necessary to support Ukraine , and keep Europe and Britain safe . the UK be solidify our historic 100 - year partnership with Ukraine , sign by the Prime Minister and President Zelensky in Kyiv in January ; bolster co - operation on defence and security , and more ; and , importantly , signal our confidence that in 100 year ' time there will still be a free and sovereign Ukraine . I turn to some of the important question that have be raise in today ' s debate . on negotiation , while Russia be weaken , it remain a significant military threat , not just to Ukraine , but to the whole of Europe , and the United Kingdom . Ukraine be the frontline of freedom , and our defence and security begin on that frontline in eastern Ukraine . that be why the decision make in negotiation over the come week and month will define not only the outcome of this conflict , but the shape of european and global security for decade to come . everyone want this war to end , none more than the ukrainian people , who need a chance to rebuild their shattered nation , so the effort by President Trump ' s administration to find a solution to the crisis be welcome , but the result peace can not be achieve at any price . that would be an insult to Ukraine , the armed force of which continue to fight with enormous courage and skill , and the population of which continue to ensure unimaginable hardship . when the fighting stop , it must be follow by a strong , stable , durable , last peace . that mean a deal that safeguard Ukraine ' s sovereignty and end russian aggression — not a temporary ceasefire before Putin find an excuse to return to violence , but a lasting and durable peace . an insecure peace risk more war , and a US backstop be the only way to achieve a durable and last peace . the Government ' s position be clear : negotiation about Ukraine can not happen without Ukraine . at the same time , it be right that the UK and Europe play our part in secure the peace . it be our security that be be negotiate , as well as Ukraine ' s . we have to work together with the US to achieve a sustained peace and protect the democracy that both the US and Europe hold so dear . that be why the Prime Minister have say that a US security guarantee in Ukraine be critical to stop Putin attack again . it be welcome that we be now talk about negotiation , but as a Defence Minister , let I remind the House that we must not jeopardise the peace by forget about the war . President Trump have long express his wish for Europe to step up and take more responsibility for its own security , and he be right . indeed , we be respond to that challenge , and we be step up . early this week , the Prime Minister announce the big sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . we be bring forward our labour manifesto commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence to 2027 — back to a level that have not be achieve since 2010 , when Labour be last in government . ahead of his visit to Washington today , the Prime Minister also announce that , subject to our economic and fiscal condition and align with our strategic and operational need , we will set a clear ambition for defence spending to rise to 3 % in the next Parliament . through our strategic defence review , which will be publish in the spring , we be assess the threat that Britain face and build the defence capability we need to meet they . we be also cut waste in the Ministry of Defence , and reform procurement and recruitment , include by address some of the outdated medical standard that have be raise in this debate . we be prioritise investment in UK defence industry . as a result , our armed force will once again become fit to fight a modern war , learn the lesson from Ukraine and adapt to the evolve threat we face , because we know that strengthen defence be the only way to win peace — by deter conflict , but also by prevent defeat in it , if necessary . we be also step up in NATO , and encourage all our NATO ally to spend at least 2 % on defence . with Britain spend 2 . 5 % on defence from 2027 , we be also set a new benchmark for other to follow . two week ago , I be lead a UK trade delegation in Ukraine with our dutch and norwegian colleague . we talk about more joint venture , more investment , more tech transfer of knowledge and data sharing in both direction . this week , I visit Finland , Latvia , Lithuania , Denmark and the Netherlands to discuss with our close ally how we step up our collective support for Ukraine . the United Kingdom will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . Slava Ukraini . I call Sir Iain Duncan Smith to wind up the debate . it be great that you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , because two and a half year ago you come out to Ukraine with I and the charity , as other have do , and you be fantastic talk to troop suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . they remember that when I see they again later , so I thank you on their behalf . this have be an excellent debate . it will send a message of unity to the President of America . it will tell he that this House be unite in its support for Ukraine and believe that if we have faith in Ukraine it will succeed , and that there be no peace that be not durable that be worth the word peace . we need to make sure it have freedom and justice at the same time . to finish the debate , I will give one small quote — if the House will forgive I ; it be very short — from the man who , in 1941 , be also appeal to the President of a nation of 130 million that be in isolation and not likely to enter a war on our behalf . this be the sign that we must send to the man who have a bust of Churchill sit in his office . this be how Churchill appeal to the President of America , and , on behalf of Ukraine , I repeat it : " put your confidence in we . give we your faith and your blessing , and , under Providence , all will be well . we shall not fail or falter ; we shall not weaken or tire . neither the sudden shock of battle , nor the long - draw trial of vigilance and exertion will wear we down . give we the tool , and we will finish the job . " Slava Ukraini . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the third anniversary of the war in Ukraine . St David ' s Day and Welsh Affairs 3 . 17 pm I beg to move , that this House have consider St David ' s Day and Welsh Affairs . I be delighted that the Backbench Business Committee have grant this debate . it be wonderful to see colleague in the Chamber this afternoon from across the House , many of whom kindly support the application . this be my sixth St David ' s Day debate and my first as Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . it be a great honour to have be elect Chair of this important Committee , so this afternoon I would like to take the opportunity to tell the House about the work the Committee have be undertake so far . I would like to begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , the former Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire , Stephen Crabb . he do an exceptional job foster a collegiate atmosphere to ensure that the Committee work together to achieve the good for Wales , regardless of individual party affiliation . I very much hope to carry forward that consensual approach to the work of the Committee , because I believe that be the way to get the good for the people of Wales . I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the exceptional Clerks team , lead by Alison Groves , who support the Committee . the full extent of the work they do behind the scene be rarely appreciate by member , but the Committee simply could not function without they . I be very lucky to have the support of such a diligent , hard - work team , and I thank they all for the individual skill and ability they bring to benefit the Committee . the Committee may be newly form , but it be already off to a fly start . we have already hear evidence from the Secretary of State and the First Minister , and open three inquiry , with several more idea for the rest of this Parliament in the work . we have also take evidence on several press issue for Wales , include the impact of the Budget on Wales , the closure of Holyhead port and the tragic loss of 17 inmate at Parc Prison . the first inquiry we have open be on promote Wales for inward investment . while the UK rank among the most successful country in Europe for attract foreign direct investment project , Wales have struggle to attract the same level of inward investment as other nation and region of the UK , so this inquiry will focus on how brand Wales be promote internationally . in order to market Wales as a competitive destination for inward investment , we will consider what lesson can be learn from success story in the creative industry and sport sector , and whether there be international example of effective investment promotion campaign that can inform Wales ' s approach . we will look at how the Welsh brand be articulate and market to international audience , what barrier exist to promote Wales internationally as a destination for inward investment , and how well support Welsh business be in attract inward investment . all these factor will be vital to deliver and support sustainable local benefit and prosperity . our second inquiry be on the environmental and economic legacy of Wales ' s industrial past . we know that Wales have a proud industrial heritage base on activity such as coal mining , slate quarry , copper smelting and steel making . the industrial revolution be fuel partially by Welsh coal , ship out in vast quantity from the south Wales coalfield . Merthyr Tydfil and Blaenavon be world renowned for their ironwork , and the legacy of these community live on in the landscape and the building . Less than five minute ' walk from my new constituency office in Newbridge be Newbridge Memo . formerly the Celynen Collieries Institute , build by miner use sub take from their wage , it be still the centre of the community today , host the local library , a ballroom , a cinema and a coffee shop . this be the live legacy of the miner — I know many place in Wales that would be poor have they not actively build and fight for their community . of course , I must not forget to mention the Blackwood Miners Institute , which have recently be rescue from closure by Caerphilly county borough council , a decision applaud by all local community group and user of the ' Stute . today , most of the heavy industry that power the Welsh economy during the 19th and 20th century be go . the Welsh Affairs Committee will examine their environmental legacy and the economic impact of their decline , and what this mean for Wales as it transition to the green and digital economy of the future — include , of course , the semiconductor cluster and data centre in my constituency . we know that coal tip continue to have a significant impact on people and our environment . as well as cause pollution , coal tip pose a risk of landslide — a risk that flash flooding , make bad by climate change , make even great . we in Wales be acutely aware of these risk , after a landslip be cause by heavy rain in Tylorstown in 2020 , and more recently during Storm Bert in Cwmtillery . I must acknowledge the additional £ 25 million provide by the UK Government to ensure coal tip safety in Wales — money that have now be provide after our call be ignore for 14 year by the previous Government . the decline in heavy industry also bring economic challenge to former industrial area , which persist to this day . last year , the Coalfields Regeneration Trust say that the south Wales coalfield have " exceptionally low job density , high number of out - of - work benefit , poor health " and " extensive deprivation " . our inquiry into the environmental and economic legacy of Wales ' s industrial path will look at all these issue and the role that former industrial community can play as part of Wales ' s exciting future . finally , we have open an inquiry into prison , probation and rehabilitation in Wales . much of this work be start under my predecessor , and , when I be elect Chair , I be keen for it to continue . criminal justice in Wales exist within a unique policy environment , with prison , probation and rehabilitation service reserve to the UK Government , and key intersecting service such as health , education and housing devolve to the Welsh Government . the inquiry will look at the challenge and opportunity that be present by this unique constitutional arrangement , examine where the UK and Welsh Governments be work well together and identify area for improvement . we will consider the UK Government ' s recent criminal justice policy initiative and safe street mission , assess the extent to which they have be tailor to meet the need of Welsh offender . we will also consider the effectiveness of intergovernmental relation between the UK and Welsh Governments and their associate agency in support offender management and rehabilitation in Wales , as well as the vital role play by the private sector and third sector organisation . we will look at how suitable the Welsh prison estate be for keep prisoner healthy and safe and ensure they can access effective rehabilitation service , include healthcare facility . the Committee undertake a visit to HM Prison Parc in November as part of this work , and we will continue to monitor progress at this prison as part of our inquiry . I turn to my own constituency of Newport West and Islwyn . the boundary change at the general election last year mean that , sadly , I lose some of my favourite ward in the former Newport West constituency to my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , but I have be very lucky to inherit most of the Islwyn constituency . I have to remember all my predecessor : Paul Flynn in Newport West and Neil Kinnock and Lord Don Touhig in Islwyn . those be very big boot to fill , so I take their legacy very seriously indeed and hope to serve the people of Newport West and Islwyn as well as they do . let I turn now to the whole point of the debate today . St David ' s day be a wonderful occasion to celebrate all that be brilliant about Wales . whether enjoy the seaside resort at Llandudno , walk along the Gower peninsula , or climb up Pen - y - Fan in Brecon , Wales be a place of extraordinary natural beauty , which welcome many hundred of thousand of tourist each year . it be often say that Wales be a land of song . as I look around the Chamber , I be certain that , between we and the other place , we could have a proper choir go here if we actually work on it . we be very proud of our heritage in culture and the creative art , include the Welsh National Opera and the many film and tv company that be site in Wales , produce content for Wales and UK tv . I just need to quickly say that I achieve a lifetime ambition on Saturday , thank to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , who introduce I to the other Ruth Jones , of " Gavin and Stacey " fame — [ interruption . ] exactly , what ' s occur ? may I say that I be completely starstruck ? she be lovely . Wales be not all cuddly lamb , daffodil and choir . it be also a country of protest . the right that we have today enshrine in law to protect the Welsh language be hard fight for by activist , who hold the Government of the day to account and persist with their campaign — some lawful and some not — for many decade , finally to achieve parity of Welsh and English . our care and passion for the Welsh language be clear . only two event in more than 100 year have disrupt the National Eisteddfod in Wales , one of they be the recent covid pandemic , and the other the great war in 1914 . we be also a country with a strong history of Chartism — that noble cause that spread across the entire United Kingdom , burn brightly in south Wales , and particularly in my own constituency of Newport West and Islwyn and , of course , in Newport East . many fight for year there to achieve democratic change , even lose their life in pursuit of a fair and open democracy , which be something for which we all need to be very grateful . the fact that an ordinary girl like I from Duffryn comprehensive school can represent the people of our community here in this extraordinary place be something that I will never take for grant . many people in Newcastle - under - Lyme and Staffordshire enjoy the delight of Wales . as a child , my mother spend many happy summer at Colwyn Bay . this be the first St David ' s Day in five year that I be not an employee of my hon . friend , so I want to congratulate she on an excellent speech and say that , on behalf of the people of Newcastle , I wish she and her constituent a very happy St David ' s Day . I thank my hon . friend for that , and may I say that I have teach he all he know ? I could go on , but I do not wish to take up any more time . I want to hear from other colleague present today , and I look forward to their contribution . Diolch yn fawr iawn a dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus I chi , Ddirprwy Lefarydd . a happy St David ' s Day to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to everyone across the House . it be lovely to see so many daffodil . this be a time to take pride in our culture , our community and our language — each a rugged testament to our resilience as a nation . we be a nation of creativity and innovation . we all know that Wales have the talent , the resource and the potential to be more than brilliant , but it be time to be more ambitious . it be time to up our game . although we may not yet have a St David ' s Day bank holiday , that do not stop we from come together to celebrate what make our country so special . I thank the right hon . member for give way and would like to take the chance to wish everyone a very happy St David ' s Day . do she support my call to make St Piran ' s Day , the national day of Cornwall , which be take place next Wednesday on 5 March , a bank holiday ? yes , we should celebrate our regional and national saint with vigour and enthusiasm , and ensure that people get every opportunity and the time to enjoy they . today we reflect on all that be great about Wales , but we must also acknowledge the challenge we face and , more importantly , determine how we can overcome they . our art and culture , so integral to our national identity , be hang in the balance . our national museum and national library be face potential staff loss , and our national theatre have have to shut up shop . meanwhile , the NHS in Wales have be — there be no other way of put it — chronically mismanage for 26 year , more than a quarter of a century . labour boast of lavish spending , but we have record - high waiting list month after month . nearly half of cancer patient be not get the treatment they need on time , and ambulance response time target be miss time after time . our school be also struggle . PISA result be at their bad ever level . recruitment target have be miss for the past eight year , and Plaid Cymru freedom of information request have find that the Welsh school maintenance backlog total over half a billion pound . the building in which we expect to develop the skill of the next generation to build our nation be crumble away . First Minister after First Minister promise that a Labour Government here in the UK centre of power would turn the tide in Wales , but all we have see be break promise : a refusal to scrap the Barnett formula , leave our funding arrangement misalign with our need and leave Wales short - changed ; not a single penny of High Speed 2 funding , while reduce the Barnett comparability factor for Wales to just a third — 33 . 5 % — leave we again without that which we be owe to tackle our crumble transport infrastructure ; and an expansion , incredibly , of the cruel austerity agenda by remove the winter fuel allowance from thousand of Welsh pensioner , keep the two - child cap in place and refuse compensation for 1950 - bear woman . only this week the Government vote down the opportunity that Plaid Cymru bring to devolve Wales ' s Crown Estate asset , deny we the reward of our own natural resource in Wales . that be despite Welsh Labour still support the Crown Estate ' s devolution . in fact , the First Minister have call it an " important cause for our nation " . the Welsh Labour former Counsel General Mick Antoniw call UK Labour ' s rejection of devolution a " big mistake " with " no genuine economic or political logic " . add to that be the hike in employer national insurance contribution that will hit core public and third sector service , as well as family business , and the impact on the future of Welsh farming of inheritance tax change and the shrinking of agriculture funding through Barnettisation . labour have well and truly let we down since 2004 , and now there be nowhere else to turn to blame for it . Plaid Cymru be use to call out Labour ' s failure , whether here in Westminster or in Cardiff Bay . Plaid Cymru have prove time and again that we be never afraid to scrutinise labour ' s decision . unlike the Labour Welsh Government , we be willing to demand well for Wales . we always put Wales first . it come with our name . labour sit on its hand and pander to right - wing extremist , dance to the tune of Reform — its member be not even here , though they expect Wales to dance to their tune in 2026 . reform shout out its empty slogan into the void of its non - existent Welsh policy . Plaid Cymru be set out our vision for a Plaid Cymru Welsh Government in 2026 , with our initial plan for the NHS , include regional elective care hub , an executive triage service and health board collaboration . a Plaid Cymru Government will hit the ground run , unafraid to implement the change that Wales need to fulfil our potential . Wales need a fresh start , and Plaid Cymru be ready to invest in our people and our future and to lead with policy that will transform life and community . as we approach Senedd Cymru election , the tide be turn in Wales . we should no long have to accept any more empty promise or measly crumb from Westminster dress up as big , celebratory announcement . labour in Westminster be not prepared to give Wales what it deserve , and labour in Wales will not fight for it . Plaid Cymru will always demand fairness for Wales . our record and our name speak for themselves . let we work together , expect a Plaid Cymru Welsh Government , to build a fair , more prosperous Wales , where every lucky person who live there get to call it home and to expect more . it be always a great pleasure to speak in the annual St David ' s Day and Welsh affair debate , and it be a special honour this year to be speak as the Member of Parliament for the new seat of Neath and Swansea East . have live in Swansea East my entire life , it be a real step into the unknown when the boundary change force I to leave behind half of my very special constituency to represent a completely new and equally special constituency . it may only be 15 minute down the road , but those 15 minute bring whole new community , a much more rural landscape and a diverse caseload that differ in many respect from what I know before . when I make my maiden speech in this place almost 10 year ago as an Opposition MP , I speak about my city , Swansea , question Dylan Thomas ' s portrayal of it as an " ugly , lovely town " . I think it be only right for my first St David ' s Day speech as a very proud Government MP , represent Neath and Swansea East , to talk about the new part of my constituency and the wonderful town of Neath . Neath be a town steep in history . we have Neath abbey , a cistercian monastery date back to 1129 , and a Norman castle , also build in the 12th century . at the heart of the town centre be Victoria garden , overlook by the formidable St David ' s church , name for our patron saint . consecrate in the 1860 , the church continue to be a focal point of the community today and it be always a great pleasure to be invite to attend event there , especially with my constituency husband , Jeremy Miles MS . just a few minute away from the church be Neath market , a traditional cover market that have trade in the same building since 1837 . as shop have come and go over the year , the market have be a constant and the produce on sale be , in my opinion , the good available . if a shopping list include Glamorgan sausage , Caerphilly cheese , a dozen Welsh cake , a bunch of daffodil or even a bucket hat with a dragon on it , Neath market be the place to go . Neath really have a past to be proud of . in addition to the beautiful historical building , we also boast one of the old fair in the UK . Neath great fair , which take place every September , can be trace back to 1280 and not even the first world war could disrupt it , with Henry Studt ' s van even use as a recruiting office for the war effort in 1915 . talk of showman like Henry Studt , yet another outstanding church in the town centre , St Thomas , have a close affinity with the Showmen ' s Guild , house a wonderful carousel horse and a stain - glass window that be commission for the guild ' s centenary celebration . our modern - day Neath be no different from anywhere else across the country , with its once bustling town centre feel the effect of the convenience and value of online shopping . I know many constituent be understandably devastate when Marks and Spencer close nine month ago after decade of be the town ' s anchor store , unfortunately with very little support from the rainbow independent - plaid coalition local authority . we be very lucky to still have a selection of national chain and individual bespoke shop still trade and thriving . personally , I be a very big fan of shop locally as it mean I can pop into the Castle Hotel for a cup of coffee . at this point , I must give a special mention to Miss Jones Boutique , Mossies and Coco Blush . any time hon . member see I stand here , it be almost certain that I be wear something from one of those shop . like everyone else in our great country , my constituent in Neath be a truly patriotic bunch . hon . member will struggle to find a man , woman or child who be not vehemently proud to be Welsh ; proud of our country , of our history and of those who represent our nation . back in July , at the very start of this Parliament , the Leader of the House join I in wish good luck to Team GB in the Paris Olympics and particularly to Dan Jervis from Resolven , who be head to Paris as part of the GB swim team . I mention Dan again today as early this month he retire from competitive swimming . I congratulate he on all he achieve and thank he for be such a wonderful role model . I know from visit a host of grassroots sport club across the constituency that we have plenty of aspire athlete who want to follow Dan ' s lead . last October I be particularly pleased to support a heart screen programme for young people from Bryncoch football club in Neath and Clydach football club in Swansea . thank to a generous donation , we be able to work with TOBE - Heartsafe to bring that programme to young people who otherwise might not have be able to access it . TOBE - Heartsafe be set up by Sam Richards in memory of her son Toby . it have always be my desire to help people . that be at the heart of why I first stand for election 10 year ago . a decade on , I remain as proud as I be on that first day , now with a grow number of Welsh Labour representative in this place . while I have not quite get St David ' s knack of work miracle — but I do have a go — I will do everything in my power to help my constituent . I remain humbled and thankful that the people of Neath and Swansea East put their trust in I again last July , and I look forward to continue to represent and support all my constituent throughout this Parliament . I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a very happy St David ' s Day . rise — member will appreciate that , quite rightly , there be heavy demand to speak in the debate . if member can help each other by keep their remark to about four minute , I will be able to get everyone in . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate mark St David ' s Day , and to celebrate the rich culture , history and contribution of Wales to our shared Union . my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury share part of its western border with north Wales , and the tie between we run deep . many of my constituent cross the border daily for work , school and appointment , and to visit family and friend . in fact , Wales be particularly close to my heart because my mother be bear in Swansea . our past relationship with Wales , however , have not always be as cordial and amicable . Henry , Prince of Wales , who would go on to become Henry V , be name Earl of Chester in September 1403 . he use his power over the city of Chester to order that all Welsh people and Welsh sympathiser should be expel from the city follow the battle of Shrewsbury , cause by a Welsh uprising . during the battle , Henry sustain a nasty injury as a result of an arrow . that lead to he become slightly paranoid about the prospect of further Welsh uprising and push he to pass a law that say that a Welshman be not permit to enter Chester before sunrise or stay after sunset . if he do , he would be subject to the penalty of decapitation . I be relieve to say that law be no long in place , as it would certainly put a dampener on our tourism industry , not to mention my family gathering . it also lead to the urban myth that it be legal to shoot a Welshman with a longbow after midnight in Chester on a Sunday , so long as he be within the city wall . I have recently take up archery , but let I assure the House that it be not with the intention of test the legality of this law . despite such moment of strained relation , we have always be link by geography , trade and share experience . Chester ' s strategic location make it a key military stronghold for the Romans , the Mercians , the Normans and , most notably , Edward I during his conquest of Wales . thankfully , our cross - border exchange these day involve much less castle storm and much more co - operation . in the first and second world war , the Cheshire regiment fight alongside Welsh contingent in some of the most challenging campaign , include Gallipoli . that legacy of co - operation and mutual support be something we should celebrate . cheshire and north Wales share a deep connection across multiple area . I will briefly refer to two of they : our shared economy and our shared infrastructure . our local economy in Cheshire and north Wales be very much co - dependent . our rural economy be support on both side of the border by grower and producer . in a recent Westminster Hall debate on agricultural property relief , I intervene on the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) to highlight the importance of farming to our economy . I be strike when she say in response that her farm supply milk to a major food producer in my constituency — I do not know that . that coincidence illustrate perfectly how we work to support each other , particularly in the rural economy . our local economy be deeply interconnect — many worker from my constituency commute to industrial site , such as Airbus in Broughton and Deeside , and many people commute from Wales to work in my constituency . of course , visitor from Wales help to drive Chester ' s tourism and hospitality sector . it go both way : many of my constituent enjoy weekend trip to the north Welsh coast , whether for a stroll along Llandudno ' s promenade or a well - earn break on Anglesey . it be important that we continue to share a close economic relationship go forward , because both Cheshire and Wales be net contributor to our respective economy , and together we lead the way in innovation and entrepreneurship in so many way . a strong economy must be support by strong infrastructure , which bring I to my second point . we have great potential for growth in north - west England and north Wales , but often our infrastructure do not meet demand . I have speak in this House about the need to electrify the trainline between Crewe — our major rail hub — and Chester . however , if we be serious about growth and stimulate our economy , the north Wales main line should be electrify all the way to Holyhead to unlock its full potential . road infrastructure be equally vital . many of the road that run through my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury , such as the A51 or the north Wales expressway , be critical for freight and connectivity , particularly those link the port of Holyhead to Liverpool and Manchester . yet some road , include the A51 , be not suit to the volume and type of traffic that they now carry . when heavy good vehicle pass through village such as Clotton and Duddon , where home and Duddon St Peter ' s Church of England primary school sit right on the road , it be clear that improvement must be make . I hope that the Government will , in partnership with their Welsh counterpart , continue to build on the positive momentum put in place by the previous Government on deliver the transport upgrade that both side of the border need . as St David ' s day approach , the future of Wales as part of the United Kingdom be bright and exciting . it be wonderful to hear that my hon . friend have a new string to her bow . she make the point about the many way in which we be connected and share heritage across the country . we be celebrate St David ' s Day , and we all have our own local saint and national saint , but be it not marvellous that ultimately we all come together as one nation — the United Kingdom — and that more unite we than divide we ? my hon . friend make a critical point . all part of our Union be important . our relationship with Wales be one of share history , share prosperity and , occasionally , friendly sporting rivalry . of course , our affection may be briefly set aside for 80 minute when England travel to Cardiff for the Six Nations in a couple of week ' time , but I be confident that our friendship will survive even another english victory . Wales remain an integral part of the United Kingdom , and our deep tie — economic , cultural , and personal — will only continue to grow . let we celebrate that today and work together to ensure that both side of the border thrive in the year ahead . Diolch yn fawr , and happy St David ' s Day to all . I call Jessica Morden . Diolch , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish everyone a happy St David ' s Day for Saturday . as always , it be a pleasure to have the opportunity to speak in the Chamber about our wonderful city of Newport , and to see my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who be certainly a very proud Newportonian , open the debate so ably — just as ably as she chair the Welsh Affairs Committee . for generation , Newport have be know for its rich industrial heritage . it be once central to the world during the industrial revolution , when iron and coal be ship globally from its dock . on a point of trivium , those dock be disguise as the port of Southampton in the recent " Gavin and Stacey " Christmas special , when Nessa — a very close friend of my hon . friend — try to head off to Panama . today , a new industrial revolution be under way in city . it be bring well - pay and highly skilled job , foster innovation , and mark a significant shift in Newport ' s economic fortune . I be speak about this today as we look to the UK Government and our excellent Secretary of State to help we . Newport be rapidly become a hub for datum and technology , attract global business and secure billion of pound of investment , both in my constituency of Newport East and in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn . from the decade - long work of KLA in Ringland , to the Vishay site , Vantage and Microsoft at the other end of the city , which my hon . friend represent , we have a globally significant semiconductor cluster . Newport be still a steel city — more of that later — but be also evolve into a " cwm silicon " : a Welsh silicon valley . power by renewable , innovator such as SAE be lead the way , repurpose the former coal - fire power station at Uskmouth into one of the UK ' s large battery energy storage plant . this will store energy from renewable — it be right next to the severn estuary , so any investment in tidal technology be welcome there — and feed it directly into the grid , ensure that Newport step into this new industrial revolution with the environment at its heart , protect our unique natural surrounding . at the centre of all this sit our city ' s port . as the UK ' s large steel port , it be lead the way in become a port of the future , with an ambitious plan by Associated British Ports to decarbonise . that will not only sustain the port ' s long - term viability and provide a source of renewable energy for the city but create more job in the industry of the future for the people of Newport . I hope my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will ensure that a strategy for Welsh port be very much part of the industrial strategy . the city have come a long way since 1962 , when llanwern steelwork become the first place in the world to use a computer to control a hot strip mill . it continue to produce world - class automotive steel , thank to its dedicated and highly skilled workforce , represent by excellent union , and in recent month it reach a new output record of 14 kiloton in a week follow the introduction of new technology . with the ongoing work by the Government to establish a long - term and ambitious vision for the UK steel industry through the industrial strategy and the steel strategy , Llanwern have the potential to maintain an exciting future on the cutting edge of steel making . however , it be important that the steel strategy address the major challenge the industry face . we appreciate the £ 2 . 5 billion of support for the industry , but ahead of the expiry of the exist steel safeguard next year , the industry be call for robust quota that will protect the UK market from global excess capacity and trade diversion , especially in the light of US tariff . the strategy also need to address the persistent issue of energy cost and procurement , and an update from the Secretary of State on any conversation with the Cabinet about steel would be most welcome . as in the last industrial revolution , when Newport be key to get black gold to the world , the city be once again essential to the industry of tomorrow . without all the vital component — wafer , data centre for hyperscaler , semiconductor manufacturing equipment and renewable energy capacity — the UK risk miss out on this AI and data - drive industrial revolution . with support for and investment in Newport from the UK and Welsh Governments , work in partnership with industry , we can move forward with the ambitious plan outline in our manifesto , with the industrial strategy now come together . Newport sit at the heart of all that be vital to transform public service and drive economic growth across the UK . our Newport city council leader , Dimitri Batrouni , would love to pursue plan for an AI growth zone , to make use of our strength and asset and to take advantage of the incredible opportunity that lie ahead for our city . my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn and I would welcome a meeting with the Secretary of State about support these plan . as Newport representative with our councillor and member of the Senedd , we have big ambition for our city in this field . in closing , I invite all member to pick up their mobile phone or tablet — if they be allow to . without the research and development work happen at KLA in my constituency , we would not be able to do everything we can on our device . every day , each of we interact with hundred of device that would not exist without the cutting - edge R & D carry out by KLA , which build the equipment need to manufacture semiconductor . Newport be right at the heart of all that . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to raise this today . I look forward to the Secretary of State ' s reply and to work with colleague in Government at both end of the M4 to pursue this ambitious vision for our city . rise — Order . I be very keen to get everyone in , so I be impose an immediate four - minute time limit . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Madam Dirprwy Lefarydd . I begin by refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . what a pleasure it be to be here today attend at my very first St David ' s debate in the House , represent the fine people of Caerfyrddin . although it be traditional to hold this debate , I want to thank the Backbench Business Committee for find time to allow the tradition to continue and give we the opportunity to discuss all thing Welsh . I be delighted to be join today by Sian , one of my three daughter , and her beautiful family , as it be half - term week in Wales . this be their very first visit to the House ; diolch yn fawr I chi be ddod ! give that I be a farmer from a predominantly agricultural constituency , Members would expect I to start with " the land " , so I will not disappoint they : I be go to talk about farming . seventy - four per cent of Caerfyrddin ' s land be agricultural , and that be not just a statistic but a reflection of our way of life . farming support family , strengthen our rural economy , and keep our Welsh language and culture thriving . as a tenant dairy farmer myself , I know at first hand about the dedication , the hard work and the sacrifice that come with this way of life . the Government ' s complete disregard for the sector have be astounding : the change to the agricultural property and business property relief be push family farm to the brink . ignore this reality be a betrayal , not just of farmer but of the community , business and local economy that depend on they . we must bear in mind that , accord to union figure , for every £ 1 spend by the agricultural industry £ 9 be create locally and feed into local business , retain that circular economy on which we all depend . along with farmer , the local business that they support be crucial to our local economy . we have incredible business in Caerfyrddin — Adeiladwyr LBS , Morgan Marine , and Whitland Engineering , to name just a few — all training and employ local people . we also have Bremenda Isaf , a publicly own , council - own farm grow fresh , high - quality , affordable produce for our school , care home , and caf é s — and let I tell the House that its tomato and carrot be to die for ! they be absolutely delicious . those example show that our community do not lack potential or ambition , but they have lack investment . we need a target rural economic strategy , one that deliver stable job , affordable housing , and real support for small business . farmer be also instrumental in provide answer to tackle the climate and nature crisis . adopt renewable energy through a mix of solar / wind and marine be a way for we to play our part in address these issue . however , in the transition to renewable energy we must also consider the need of our community and natural environment . Caerfyrddin ' s natural beauty be priceless , but Green GEN ' s plan threaten to scar our landscape with a chain of pylon run through the Tywi and teifi valley . undergrounde these cable — something that local group have long demand — would not only preserve the natural beauty of Caerfyrddin ' s landscape , but protect our power supply from increasingly extreme weather event drive by the climate crisis . power outage follow Storms Darragh and É owyn be cause by tree fall on overground electricity cable . the security of our infrastructure and energy supply be crucial , in the context of both weather and possible enemy attack . absolutely . it be vital for any new electricity infrastructure to be place underground , as it be in Belgium , Holland , Germany , Denmark , Ireland and most other european country . would that not make more sense ? we have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to build a green economy that work for everyone in Wales , not just big investor , so let we get it right . as St David say , " Gwnewch y pethau bychain , " which mean " do the little thing . " but let we be clear : little thing do not mean insignificant thing . thrive family farm , strong local business , green energy that work for our community — these thing might seem small in isolation , but put together , they shape our economy , culture and future . let we stand up for our farmer , our business and our community . let we invest in Wales , and let we get it right . Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus — have a lovely , happy St David ' s Day . Llongyfarchiadau to my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) on secure this debate , and dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus pawb — happy St David ' s day to everyone . twenty - five year ago , I be lucky enough to make Wales my home , and I be so proud to represent Monmouthshire ; from Llantony to Llanishen , it be the most beautiful constituency in Wales . we have the most incredible sight , with the command Bannau Brycheiniog in the north and the picturesque Wye valley national landscape in the east , as well as the brilliant market town of Abergavenny , Chepstow , Monmouth and Usk and the Magor marsh in the south . last week , I visit Usk and Prescoed prison and our fantastic probation service . I would like to take a moment to pay tribute to all our public servant work across Wales and Monmouthshire as teacher , doctor , nurse , prison and probation officer and so much more . they be at the heart of our community . each community across Monmouthshire be vibrant and add to the welcome culture that we in Wales be so proud of . after all , Monmouthshire community organisation , such as the Abergavenny community centre , be some of the good in the UK . the community always rally round and people support each other in a crisis , such as the flood in Skenfrith . Wales also have a strong and long history with the Labour party ; it elect great leader and political thinker like Kier Hardie in Merthyr Tydfil , Aneurin Bevan in Ebbw Vale and James Callaghan in Cardiff . it be a history that we value and should never take for grant . the bond between Wales and Labour be build on our understanding of the priority of our community , and our Welsh Labour Government colleague have be deliver for Wales for 25 year . they have shape a country where we be proud to work differently , in partnership with the public sector , charity and union . we be a country that lead the world on the environment , with a world - first future generation Act , an active travel Act , and a plastic bag tax , and we be lead on recycling . we have prioritise family , deliver universal free school meal in all primary school and the big building investment in Welsh school since the 1960 . we have three new secondary school in Monmouthshire , build under the Welsh Government ' s 21st - century school programme — unlike the Conservatives , we never stop invest in our school and our young people in Wales — and the very late to open its door will be in Abergavenny in April . Wales be a country where we stand up for and fight for what we believe in . it be an honour to be a Monmouthshire MP . have two Labour government work together have make a great difference to all our service . I be proud that ever more Monmouthshire resident be start to learn Welsh , I include , although I be at the very start of my journey and must apologise to all fluent Welsh speaker for my pronunciation . we now have three Welsh - medium primary school in the county : Ysgol y Ffin , Ysgol Gymraeg y Fenni , and our very recently add Ysgol Gymraeg Trefynwy . I be very grateful to all the campaigner over the year who have get these school open , particularly Councillor Tudor Thomas . I recognise that , much like our rugby team , the Welsh language in Monmouthshire be on the rise , but there be still some way to go . Wales have a lot to offer and , for a small nation , have give the world so much . I be so proud to consider myself Welsh , have move there 25 year ago , and to represent the great constituency of Monmouthshire . I be incredibly humble and proud that the people of Monmouthshire choose I in July 2024 . felly eto dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus I ' m hetholwyr yn Sir Fynwy ac I bawb sydd yma heddiw . Diolch , Dirprwy Lefarydd . St David , the patron saint of Wales , be a renowned teacher , teach his lesson across Wales . he found monastic settlement and church in Wales , Brittany and south - west England , teach his message of discipline and live a simple life that shape the community he serve . in the Wales of today , we would do well to remember history ' s lesson and not repeat mistake that have be make . in particular , we seem to be struggle to learn from experience when it come to the economy . in 2025 , Wales ' s gdp per person be 26 % below the UK average . part of Wales , include west Wales , the valley and Ynys M ô n , my constituency , be perform even more poorly . child poverty be set to reach 34 % by the end of the decade , but in Scotland it be forecast to be 15 % low . for decade , we have fail to address the fundamental problem that face Wales . we have never have an ambitious , strategic economic plan . the case for a new , radical and " make in Wales " approach to economic development be clear for all to see . do the hon . Lady join I in welcome the new Labour Government ' s effort , particularly through the industrial strategy , to fundamentally address the systemic problem around economic growth that have afflict many community in west Wales , include in my Pembrokeshire constituency ? I be not sure if the hon . Gentleman have look at the ambitious plan he mention and count how many time Wales be mention : if he put the word " Wales " into Google and search that document , he will find that Wales be mention about nine time . that show the lack of ambition for Wales . Wales have immense natural resource . it be in a prime position to lead the industry of the future and give we energy security . Ynys M ô n be a clear example of that potential . we have the community - own Morlais tidal project ; company from across the world be look at the potential of deploy their technology in such zone . Ynys M ô n also have the Wylfa site , the good site in the UK for a new nuclear power project , which would drive growth and economic development across Ynys M ô n and north Wales . I urge the Government to officially designate Wylfa a preferred site for nuclear development . across Wales , there be huge potential for float offshore wind . accord to the Crown Estate ' s " Celtic Sea Blueprint " , upcoming offshore wind development could create up to 5 , 300 new job and generate £ 1 . 4 billion , notably , " for the UK economy " . a devolved Crown Estate would ensure that those job and wealth be create and keep locally . maximise our clean energy potential must be do strategically to create economic growth that benefit our community . we should recognise the value of our agricultural sector to the economy and the importance of food security , and we should not be pursue large - scale solar farm on agricultural land . there be plenty of room for small - scale solar , include on rooftop and building . the Alaw M ô n and Maen Hir project on Ynys M ô n would have a detrimental impact to the economy . solar farm do not create job ; they dissolve job . take the bold measure that I have outline today will help create new job and opportunity for people in Wales . it would revitalise the economy and help to encourage people to stay in Wales , while attract many recent emigrant back . that be the bold , innovate think we need for the second half of this decade and beyond , and Plaid Cymru be ready to deliver this vision for the community of Wales . I wish a happy St David ' s Day on Saturday to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the rest of the House . it be a real pleasure to speak in my first St David ' s Day debate in this place , along with so many other new member . the time around St David ' s day be always special , as so many have say . it be a moment of national and local pride for Welsh community , a time when we celebrate everything that make we proud of Wales . I look forward to join in our annual St David ' s Day parade in Wrexham this Saturday , lead by the Cambria band , on what will be a busy day in the city , with our monthly award - win street market and a home game against Bolton Wanderers also happen . St David , or Dewi Sant , be know to have be a radical of his time , do away with and challenge the perceive norm . we see that radical spirit weave into the fabric of Welsh politic — the radical spirit that see Nye Bevan lead the charge for the national health service , the fightback against the devastation of Thatcher and the Conservatives ' decision to close the mine in the 1980 , and the endure quest for devolution , which be finally achieve just over 25 year ago , under the last UK Labour Government . the devolution we celebrate have allow Wales to do thing differently ; we have free prescription ; we be keep , not cut , maintenance grant for student ; we have a publicly own train company ; and we have the well - being of Future generation ( Wales ) Act 2015 — the first in the UK . all that and much more be achieve because of devolution , not in spite of it , as some may believe . Wales be a strong devolve nation in a strong Union ; devolution be an evolve journey , not a destination . I look forward to see how that journey develop , now that we have two government work together . St David ' s day be about celebrate the proud history that we all share , so it be a shame that no Reform Members be in the Chamber to brush up on their history for their next day trip across the border . that history range far and wide , from St Davids to Wrexham and from Chepstow to Holyhead , but I hope that colleague will forgive I if I speak far on history a bit close to home — any opportunity to wax lyrical about Wrexham . Most will of course know about the world - famous Wrexham associate football club , but they may be less aware of the role that our city play in ensure that Welsh football be what it be today . in February 1876 , a group of football enthusiast meet at the Wynnstay hotel in the centre of Wrexham . from that meeting come the formation of the Football Association of Wales and the Welsh cup , which remain one of the old competition in the world ; Wrexham have win it a record 23 time . the Cae Ras in Wrexham be the old international stadium in the world that be still host match , the most recent of which be early this week , and Wales ' s first home match be hold there in 1877 ; it have host more Wales international match than any other ground . much be say about the seven wonder of the world , but not enough be say about the seven wonder of Wales , three of which can be find in my constituency . we have St Giles parish church in the centre of our city ; the Overton yew tree , which be estimate to be around 2 , 000 year old ; and the bell of all Saints ' church in Gresford , which have be ring continuously since the 16th century — hopefully with a break — and which sometimes ring of their own volition . no debate about Wales would be complete without mention of beer . Wrexham Lager have a history that span back to 1882 , and it continue to make a significant contribution to the Welsh economy , export across the world . I have just join other member here at an excellent showcase of Welsh food and drink , at which another Wrexham brewery , the Magic Dragon , be show its exceptional beer . there be so much more to say about Wales and about Wrexham , but in the interest of time , I finish by wish everyone a dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus for Saturday . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) and my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , who I congratulate on her stewardship of the Welsh Affairs Committee , for secure this debate . it be an honour , as a new Member of Parliament , to take part in my first St David ' s Day debate . despite what some news outlet have say about I — this be a lesson not to believe everything we read in the press — I be a proud Welshman , and I be proud to be one of the representative of our nation ' s capital in this Chamber . St David ' s Day allow we to celebrate our patron saint Dewi Sant , who be incidentally the only native - bear patron saint of the four home nation and of Ireland , but it also allow we an opportunity to come together and celebrate our community , to talk powerfully about the brilliance of Wales , and to be ambassador for Wales , both at home and abroad . today , we have hear some excellent contribution from colleague across the House about how brilliant their constituency be , but I be sure you will agree with I , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be a truth universally acknowledge that Cardiff West remain the good . it be a vibrant , brilliant community that be the proud left bank of Wales . two First Ministers have come from my constituency , and our current First Minister be bear in Ely , in the heart of my constituency . in my maiden speech , I describe how while " each area be define by its own unique character … the common thread that run through they be a proud community , replete with family , local activist , sport club , volunteer and faith leader " — [ Official Report , 25 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 888 . ] all commit to serve the neighbourhood that they call home . although I of course love all part of my brilliant constituency , I want to place a little focus on Ely in this contribution . Ely be a proud community that have endure many problem over the year , and when report on Ely happen , the media tend to focus only on the negative , rather than the vibrancy and community spirit that I have see in my short time as its Member of Parliament . that vibrancy and community spirit have be test with housing shortage , benefit cut , austerity and a lack of investment over the past 14 year . let we be clear , despite the amnesia of Plaid Cymru Members : this be a legacy of a Tory Westminster Government . now , under this UK Government , for the first time in 14 year we have a Westminster Government commit to deliver for Wales . it be the first time in a generation . since the general election , Wales have see the large funding boost since devolution , with £ 21 billion of new money and a record £ 1 . 7 billion spending boost for the Welsh Government to support public service , include the NHS . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Cardiff East ( Jo Stevens ) , and the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , for their effort to secure that funding , and for their continue work to forge a new partnership with the Welsh Government , return it to a partnership of respect . since my election , I have seek to focus on Ely , try to help tackle some of its issue while also promote its story . for example , it need improvement to its park , so I welcome Cardiff council ' s commitment to a new youth zone . over the year , Ely have have a proud sporting tradition . its sport club be at the heart of the community , and at the weekend , Trelai park in neighbour Caerau and the recreation ground in Ely be huge source of joy and fun for child , adult and family . however , we must also support further funding for our school . Cardiff West community high school serve both side of Ely — Caerau and Ely . I have see the great work it do in the community , work with partner to make its new facility available to young people across the constituency . will my hon . friend join I in congratulate the Welsh Labour Government on their work on school in Wales , keep the investment in school building go after it be cut in England in 2010 through the 21st century school programme ? now , through the sustainable community for learn programme , which have see school and college across Wales — Order . the hon . Lady be go to be next on my list , but that be a very long intervention . I wholeheartedly agree with and support my hon . friend ' s intervention , and I look forward to hear more about it in her speech . of course , the route out of poverty be through education , and we must continue to work with the Welsh Government to improve educational outcome in area such as Ely . already , the propose budget from the Welsh Government will mean an extra £ 1 . 5 billion for public service , once again show the power of partnership between two government work together in the interest of the Welsh people . why , therefore , Plaid Cymru will be join the Conservatives next week to vote against that investment in the budget be beyond I . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? very briefly . I be sure the hon . Gentleman know as well as I do that this be not an increase in real term , and that the Welsh budget be front - loaded . we know that grief be come down the track in future budget , so it be hardly appropriate to be singe the praise of this budget , know what be on its way . I will simply say that while I may agree with some of what the right hon . Lady say today , it be still inexplicable to I that Plaid Cymru would vote against an extra £ 1 . 5 billion in the budget next week , and join the Tories in do so . their reason for do so seem unfathomable . I will conclude by say that I be proud to serve the constituent of Cardiff West , and I will always work hard for the whole community there . to everyone in this House and to all of my constituent , I say Dydd Dewi Sant hapus . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) on secure this important debate . have spend my entire life in various part of Glynd ŵ r , it be an honour to represent my constituency of Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r , an area steep in the rich history of Wales . Bersham , for instance , be the cradle of the industrial revolution , home to the davy brother ' workshop . it be where british ironmaking begin in 1670 ; where smelt iron ore with coke first take place in 1721 ; and where the pioneer of industrialisation , " Iron - Mad " John Wilkinson , establish himself in 1761 . it be where the first single - mould cannon in the world be bored , which be against the Americans during their war of independence . it be also the site where the cylinder for James Watt ' s steam engine be manufacture . while much of Wales ' s industrial development focus on the extraction of raw material , such as coal , slate and water , the Ruabon - Chester railway — the old commercial rail line in Wales — be not use for resource extraction . instead , it be use to export manufacture good make from the beautiful Ruabon red clay deposit in the area to England . fast - forward to the present day , and it be wonderful to see how modern Glynd ŵ r have evolve from its heavily industrialise past . the coal spoil tip in Rhostyllen , for example , house the Hollywood - style Wrexham sign when the football club gain two famous owner a few year ago . we have the old chemical plant site , straddle Cefn Mawr , Acrefair and Trevor , which have naturally rewilde with an abundance of buddleia flower and butterfly during the summer month . a walk up the trefnant valley to the top of Acrefair be now as beautiful and idyllic as it would have be in pre - industrial time , with rare bird and uniquely mark brown trout visible in the brook . Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r be full of people with big heart do thing every day to make our vibrant constituency special . in Llanidloes , constituent establish a community venue at the Hanging Gardens , provide cake , soup , entertainment and wood and metalworking class , complement a town that already boast community energy and solar organisation . it even offer a chance to borrow — not buy — from the library of thing . in Machynlleth , our town councillor recently open local town council - run toilet at a time when so many public convenience be close . that have make a big difference to the many visitor to the brilliant El Sue ñ o and the Mach comedy festival . in Carno , tireless volunteer be campaign to reopen the railway station and establish a Laura Ashley museum at the very spot where its factory once stand . in Welshpool , the community hub have evolve from be a welcome space into a supportive environment offer multiple service . one of the councillor , Ben Gwalchmai , have recently lead the successful project to provide free community wi - fi , alleviate datum poverty for many resident . our agricultural show and f ê tes at Glyn Ceiriog , Montgomery , Llanbrynmair , Guilsfield , Berriew , Llanfair Caereinion and Llanfyllin would not be possible without the help of an array of amazing volunteer , nor would the community wellness hub at the George Edwards hall in Cefn Mawr , which have have a real and substantial impact on the mental health of local people . People in Plas Madoc recently celebrate 10 year of their leisure centre , which be own and manage by the community . the Splash Community Trust , which manage the facility , have expand its remit to support the community by host a food bank and offer other advice service . its success story have be an inspiration to we all . Happy St David ' s Day , everyone . a lot can change in a year , so I have a look back at my speech from last year to see what be different and what have stay the same . it turn out that I only need to make one adjustment to my opening line from last year , so here go : I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) " for secure this debate — one that I look forward to every year . " — [ Official Report , 29 February 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 511 . ] my apology for take out the name of the former right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire , as he be a good friend . as they say , need must . like last year , we be back again after three defeat for Wales in the man ' s Six Nations . I be hopeful , however , that the woman ' s squad will provide some national joy when their tournament kick off later in March . move on to the new , perhaps the big change in the last 12 month be that we now have a Labour Government in the UK , work with the Labour Government in Wales . Labour take 27 seat in Wales , with 10 newbie , some of whom be here today , and I welcome they with open arm . this be one of the parliamentary highlight of the year . I extend that welcome to our new Welsh mp in other party . we may not be align on everything , but we all do care deeply about get the good outcome for Wales . follow the boundary change at the general election , my team and I have be work alongside two Labour mss : Rebecca Evans of Gower and Julie James of Swansea West . both have recently announce that they will stand down at the next Senedd election , so I want to take this opportunity to thank they for their service to their constituent and the people of Wales in their ministerial role . I have tell member of this place many time before that I represent the most beautiful part of Wales , and that remain unchanged . Gower be world - famous for its breathtaking coastline , so naturally the quality of our seawater be deeply important to my constituent and I . in the last 12 month , I have set up a campaign to test the bathing water throughout the whole of the winter season . the secret of its success be the commitment of my constituent , local business and the Gower Society . those of we who live near the coast know that our constituent swim or dip in the sea all year round , not just during the bathing season . I pay tribute to Dawn Thomas from Nature day , who have gather all the datum , and Sarah Samuel , the secretary of the Gower Society ; they have be absolutely outstanding in run the programme . what we be do be new , so their guidance be really important , and it will inform both the Welsh Government and the UK Government . Gower be also know for its rural landscape , and farming play a pivotal role in the constituency . many farmer have rightly raise concern about the announcement in the Budget relate to inheritance tax , and I want to assure they that I will continue to listen and to share their concern with the Government , ensure that their voice be hear . as in many rural community , pub be hugely important in Gower . on Tuesday next week , I will welcome Lara from the king Head in Llangennith , as she be a pub finalist in the community pub hero award — make sure you be there , Madam Deputy Speaker , because it be the good night in the parliamentary calendar . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary beer group — of course I be — I be delighted that there be some local representation at PubAid ' s annual award , which celebrate the contribution that pub and hospitality make to their community . some thing will never change , and I want to talk about woman in sport in Wales . I congratulate the Wales woman ' s football team on reach this year ' s Euros tournament for the first time . year of hard work and dedication have pay off , and I wish they well in Switzerland , particularly against our neighbour and old sporting rival , the English . but do not worry , and panic not — I have not forget about the rugby . the woman ' s rugby world cup be come . I need no excuse to wax lyrical about Wales — particularly the mighty Gogledd , or north Wales , which I be proud to call home — but I be delighted to have the opportunity to do so here in this House as part of my first debate to mark St David ' s Day . in my teaching day , I would have spend St David ' s Day organise painting of red dragon ; cut , fold and stick yellow paper into daffodil ; and conduct singing in the round for the song " Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi ydy hi " . however , in the run - up to St David ' s Day , dyma fi — here I be — in the House of Commons as the proud MP for Clwyd North , or yr Aelod Seneddol dros Ogledd Clwyd . thank to the coastal path run along the coastline of Wales , I can take the House for a walk along Clwyd North from end to end . we can walk beside wide sandy beach that other coastal area can only dream of , from Rhyl and past the Pavilion theatre and the lifeboat station that have serve our water for over 150 year ; through Kinmel Bay , Towyn and Pensarn , with its hundred of caravans nestle by the shore , which host visitor who have holiday there for generation ; through the glorious Porth Eirias in Colwyn Bay , with its watersport centre and divine seafood at the Bryn Williams bistro ; and to the bob boat , and chic caf é s and shop , of Rhos - on - Sea . our Clwyd North coastline be truly something to be proud of and to behold , but there be so much more , include the market town of Denbigh , where everybody know each other ' s name , with its historic Denbigh castle and the fabulously renovate Buttermarket , which be now a centre of wellbeing , culture and heritage ; the fine Welsh folly that be Bodelwyddan castle , which be now a beautiful hotel ; the magnificent cathedral of St Asaph ; and the majestic splendour of Rhuddlan castle . Clwyd North have so much to offer . across Wales we have lot to be proud of . the coastal path be just one of the achievement that show the value we place on wellbeing and right in Wales . it be a journey hard travel by our Welsh Labour Government against the hard wind of 14 year of Tory rule in Westminster . in 2015 we pass the well - being of Future generation ( Wales ) Act , give Wales the ambition , permission and legal obligation to improve social , cultural and environmental wellbeing . that of course chime loudly with the long - term aim of our UK Labour Government , and this be no coincidence . unite by our share labour value , our Welsh Labour Government at last have a partner in our Westminster Government to jointly work towards our share Labour aim . with the partnership in power of Eluned Morgan as First Minister and my right hon . friend the Member for Cardiff East ( Jo Stevens ) as Secretary of State for Wales , we be finally set about realise our hope and ambition for the future . we have make a great start , with the large funding boost to Wales since the dawn of devolution . in Clwyd North this mean that long - hold regeneration ambition can finally start to become a reality , which be no less than our community deserve . this St David ' s day we have more to celebrate than ever in Wales , with a vision and a plan for the future back by two Labour government . Mae Cymru yn symud ymlaen gyda phartneriaeth o b ŵ er — Wales be move forward with a partnership of power . Dydd g ŵ yl Dewi hapus , bawb . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) and my good friend and constituency neighbour the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) for secure this debate . St David ' s day be a very important day for Wales , but particularly for my constituent in Mid and South Pembrokeshire . I live in St Davids , the birthplace of the patron saint , and the area surround St Davids be part of the Pembrokeshire Coast national park . with its breathtaking cliff walk , hide beach and amazing wildlife , it have be the site of thousand of holiday , hike and even film set . this weekend , St Davids will host the annual dragon parade in honour of the birth of St David , and we will see schoolchildren , community group and local resident share in a day of joy and local tradition . the parade will feature music and colourful dragon make by the resident of St Davids , showcase some of the creativity that Pembrokeshire be home to . I be lucky enough to experience for myself the incredible creative talent we have in Pembrokeshire last week at the annual Coram Shakespeare Schools theatre festival at the Torch theatre in Milford Haven . the festival provide an incredible opportunity for child of all age and educational need , and my community get involve in local theatre by build the child ' s confidence , tackle issue of anxiety and mental health , and equip they with skill for life . that be why I be so thrilled about our Welsh Labour Government ' s commitment to support Wales ' s brilliant art and culture sector with a £ 4 . 4 million annual funding boost , which be announce just last week . may I extend the wish for happiness of the people of Central Ayrshire to Wales on this St David ' s Day ? as a former trade commissioner , I be delighted in Mumbai to spend time to celebrate the achievement of the people of Wales all around the world . I know that Wales have many friend in India and around the world because of those creative industry . I thank my hon . friend — Order . before the hon . Member continue , let I just say that I will be call the first of the Front Benchers to speak at 4 . 35 pm precisely . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I will therefore make some progress , Madam Deputy Speaker . this crucial support will protect our theatre , cultural space and museum so that they can continue to play a central role in education , community engagement and tourism . local sport club be at the heart of our community , promote active , healthy lifestyle and support our most talented athlete to achieve their dream . they include St Davids ' s Jasmine Joyce , who represent Team GB in the woman ' s rugby seven at the Tokyo Olympics , and Joe Allen , a midfielder for Wales , who start out play in a local Tenby football team . pembrokeshire be burst with talent , and I be determined to ensure that my constituent be give the support and resource they need to release their full potential . so I be delighted with the recent commitment from the Energy Secretary in announce Pembrokeshire as a key growth region for clean energy , which will mean more investment in skill and secure job for the future . after year of neglect from successive Tory Governments in Westminster , Labour be put a vote of confidence in Pembrokeshire . that commitment will support the fantastic work of Pembrokeshire College and the local business that be already lead the way to maximise the benefit of a green transition for local people . just last week I visit WB Griffiths , a local construction company base in Haverfordwest , and its fantastic cohort of new apprentice . this family - run business offer a brilliant range of apprenticeship and make a real difference in our community , help to improve the energy efficiency of building and home . Mid and South Pembrokeshire have a proud industrial history . the oil industry transform the county ' s economic fortune in the 1960 and ' 70 . [ interruption . ] and I will give way , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . gentleman for meet the time limit so neatly . that bring we to the Front Benchers . I thank the hon . member responsible for secure the debate . our patron saint , St David , champion the virtue of leadership and perseverance , urge we to " do the little thing " . his word , though century old , resonate powerfully as we face the ongoing challenge in our constituency today . his word underscore the necessity for meticulous attention to the seemingly minor yet impactful decision that together weave the effective fabric of governance . over the past eight month , I have see how small decision can change life for the well . the resident of Ystradgynlais be delighted to know that , follow my request , a banking hub will be open on their high street within the next three month . the banking hub will boost an already thrive high street and spur on the local economy . Ystradgynlais be once a vibrant hub of industrial activity . the closure of the " Tick Tock " factory in 1999 be a significant economic blow to the town , result in hundred of redundancy . establish in the 1940 , the factory have be describe to I as " the making " of local woman . the factory thrive throughout the 1950 and into the 1960 , herald a new era in the history of Ystradgynlais and the surround area . local woman enjoy economic independence regardless of their educational background or marital status . the flexibility in work hour offer at the factory be revolutionary , allow woman to structure their shift pattern to suit their family commitment . at their zenith , the factory employ around 2 , 000 worker and provide more than just employment ; they foster a community . each worker be automatically a member of the social and recreational club , which feature rugby and football team , a choir , and offer much more , include regular day trip and dance . moreover , the closure of the Dewhirst factory in Ystalyfera in 1998 result in 300 job loss . the closure be part of a broad programme that hurt the local economy and the community ' s wellbee . the end of operation at Dewhirst highlight the vulnerability of such community to global shift in industrial practice and economic policy . those closure be not ancient history ; their effect be a stark , recent reality that continue to impact the community profoundly . the legacy of factory such as the Tick Tock and Dewhirst illustrate the pitfall of globalisation . they show we how industry can significantly influence community building and social empowerment , but also how their closure can lead to profound community and economic disruption . since then , successive government have fail to replace those job . despite the challenge that the community face , there be hope in initiative such as the mobile banking hub come to Ystradgynlais shortly . that will stand as a testament to the resilience and adaptive spirit of these community . this institution signal a potential revival of economic engagement and empowerment . however , it also highlight the gap leave by the Government ' s sporadic support and delay response , which fail to harness the full potential of Welsh innovation and resourcefulness . Wales , as we all know , be a mostly rural nation ; a nation of small town and village . so one might imagine that the Labour party would understand the importance of rural public service , but people live in rural area in Wales be watch as their service disappear one by one . just this week , police station in Crickhowell and Hay be close without any prior warning . that will make it hard for the people who want to keep we safe to do their job . Police officer be key worker and their office should be treat as such . due to impend top - down reorganisation , small town such as Knighton and Crickhowell be also face the closure of their fire station . how can anyone think it be a good idea even to consider take fire engine out of community that be frequently cut off by flooding ? follow storm after storm over the past year , the fire service team across Powys have prove themselves indispensable , and so be those service . these closure jeopardise public safety and erode trust in the state ' s ability to protect and serve rural community . each closure and each cutback be a stark reminder of the Government ' s waver commitment to public safety , underscore that the need to address this be not just a matter of convenience but a fundamental issue of community security . the controversy surround the demolition of Godre ' r Graig primary school follow its closure in 2019 due to a suppose landslide risk underscore the urgent need for transparency and evidence - base decision make that involve and listen to local community . despite the school mark the sixth anniversary of that closure , pupil and teacher remain in temporary classroom without a clear plan for the future , and this uncertainty , couple with local doubt about the actual risk pose by the nearby quarry spoil tip , call for a thorough examination of the fact to ensure that policy be build on solid foundation . draw inspiration from the great Welsh leader David Lloyd George — the great Welsh politician of all time , and the long continuously serve MP in this House ' s history , with 55 year of continuous service — we be remind of the transformative power of bold and decisive action . in his own word : " the fine eloquence be that which get thing do " . Lloyd George , who reshape british society in the early 20th early century with progressive reform , understand the balance between vision and action , and his legacy be a testament to the impact that that visionary leadership can have on a nation ' s course . now that the spirit of Welsh liberalism breathe again in this Chamber , I want to turn Wales into a nation of winner again , because the Welsh Liberal Democrats be win in Wales once again . today , let we embody the spirit of St David by commit to both the small deed and significant action necessary to secure a prosperous future for Wales . let we move boldly forward , together advocate for St David ' s Day to be recognise as a national holiday . I commend my hon . friend for his excellent speech . it be great to see the Liberal Democrats support St David ' s day be make a national holiday . will he join and support my campaign for Cornwall to have St Piran ' s Day as a public holiday ? Gool Peran Lowen . I do of course support my hon . friend ' s campaign , and I hope he will also endorse our campaign for St David ' s Day to be consider a public holiday . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to respond to this today ' s debate on St David ' s Day and Welsh affair on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . it be a huge honour to carry out this role , work together with our Senedd team , councillor and activist . funnily enough , I have always be know in this party as the honorary Welsh girl , and it have never feel more right than today . live and be in Wales have shape my life for the past 30 year . I spend nearly 10 year of my life there — as I get old , that number diminish in term of percentage somewhat — and I , like many member present , have a massive passion for Wales . those who have live there know just how special Wales be ; it have shape our life , hope , dream and family . live there be certainly an unforgettable experience — although I be quite pleased that many of my night out on Wind Street in Swansea have be forget by my friend and family . More ! well , there be a lot of that . the only reason I leave Wales , actually , be because of my ex - husband ' s job — they do say they be ex for a reason , so there we go . I will not go into my nickname of DJ Love Spoon , which be definitely for another day . it be certainly an extra pleasure to conclude this debate on behalf of my party today after the Welsh food and drink showcase early . I be particularly impressed with the Atlantic Edge oyster , which arrive from beautiful Pembrokeshire , and wine from family - run vineyard in Wales have never taste so good , along with the beef jerky and salt beef — what an afternoon for we here in the House of Commons . I be recently in Wales with the Leader of the Opposition , visit JCB at Wrexham . I certainly think that we could use a bucketful of those oyster go forward . I be with some of my constituent in East Grinstead — as member know , my constituency be not in Wales — which be home to the Caravan and Motorhome Club . the club be vital to Wales as it run the campsite , offer job and opportunity across the nation . it would be remiss of I not to share with the House its concern over the tourism tax from the Welsh Labour Government and the rise in national insurance contribution . we have have a positive and spirited conversation about Wales this afternoon , as we would always expect in this House . it be absolutely right that issue and concern be raise here and that we use every opportunity possible to champion Wales and our Union , and my party , the Conservative and Unionist party , have never shy away from do just that . we fully believe in Wales , which be why , when we be in office , we be so dedicated to help unleash its true potential . let I turn to some of the comment make this afternoon . I be very jealous of the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , for meet the other Ruth Jones — not only be her tv brilliant , but her book be too . what a talented lady she be . the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , the leader of Plaid Cymru , be wear an outstanding daffodil , as we would expect this afternoon . she give a characteristic speech of passion and love for Wales . I be fascinated to hear the hon . member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) talk up Neath market . balance that with swansea market must be a difficult challenge , but if there be one lady who be up to it , it be she . I say to the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) that I be very lucky to pop along to the beautiful Three Cliffs Bay Holiday Park . I be pleased to hear she stand up strongly for her constituent in term of the inheritance tax , and support the pub , include the beautiful king Head in Llangennith — what an exciting week she have ahead of she . she talk about the spirit of sport in Wales , particularly woman ' s sport , which be characteristic of she . my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) speak about her mum from Swansea — I do not know about that ! that be what I love about be in the Chamber , particularly on a Thursday afternoon . she be a new archer , which remind we all to be very careful of arrow . the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) rightly speak about the rich heritage of steel , and now silicon , in her constituency . that remind I of my rich heritage : I be get a new passport in Newport , and decide to get a tattoo to go with it , so part of Newport be always carry with I ! the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) speak about the future of Wylfa and Morlais . it be really important for she to be champion that sector and her constituency — just like her predecessor do . I be in no doubt that it be important to know what the next step in that sector be . the Conservative Government always focus on Wales , deliver an additional £ 18 billion . it be vital to remember the work that we do . I know that all constituency will have benefit from the support that we offer during covid , include the furlough scheme . that be why we can now talk about those business and those opportunity in Wales . I recently have the opportunity to visit the Port Talbot steelwork to see what be happen just ahead of the forthcoming electric arc furnace , which will start this summer . there be some important and exciting time ahead for that community . yesterday , I meet representative from S4C , which be important give the focus that our party give to support the Welsh Language Act 1993 . it be a pleasure to meet the team and hear about Welsh medium , which shape my career , as many member here know . we understand the vital importance of local production , local commissioning and opportunity right across Wales because of the medium sector . it would be remiss of I not to focus on some of the challenge across Wales . my party and I join the Secretary State in support very strongly the idea that Wales need a nationwide groom gang inquiry . can she give an update on that at the Dispatch Box ? as a Minister in the Wales Office , along with Alun Cairns , I be delighted to scrap the severn bridge toll , which be a boost for investment and local people . the tourism and attraction sector be concerned about the tourism tax . it be important that we do not " devolve and forget " when it come to Wales . we conservative believe in Wales . we believe that it be the right place to invest in , live , work and visit . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for recognise the importance of allocate time to hold this debate on Wales and Welsh affair . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) and the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) , the chair and vice - chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , respectively , for propose today ' s motion . it be a real honour to be the first female Labour Secretary of State for Wales and to begin deliver this Government ' s plan for change . across Wales and the whole UK we will raise living standard , make our public service fit for the future and our street safe , secure home - grow , clean energy and ensure opportunity for all . that be the change that people across Wales need , deserve and vote for seven month ago . when we take office , I be clear that my priority in the Wales Office include bring investment to Wales to create well - pay job and economic growth , protect and defend our steel community and reset the relationship between the UK Government and the Welsh Government , to be one of trust , co - operation and mutual respect . the past six month have already see billion of pound of investment commit and hundred of job create , include at the Port of Mostyn , and at Eren Holding at Shotton Mill . the ground have be lay for thousand more in advanced manufacturing , renewable energy and other growth sector . just this week , I announce a £ 600 million investment by Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners into Bute Energy and Green GEN Cymru ' s onshore wind generation . that will create hundred of new job and contribute significantly to the UK Government ' s clean power mission and our ambition to double onshore wind , as well as the Welsh Government ' s target for green electricity in Wales by 2035 . will the Secretary of State give way ? if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will carry on because we do not have much time . we have give the green light to Welsh freeport to unlock billion in private investment and galvanise almost 20 , 000 job in our port community of Milford Haven , Port Talbot and Holyhead . two investment zone , in Wrexham and Flintshire and in Cardiff and Newport , have be confirm , with £ 320 million of funding to support growth in key sector of the economy to create those new job . we have also secure funding for local growth project across Wales worth £ 440 million , include money for Cardiff Crossrail and the recently open Porth transport hub . we have protect key programme that be important for local regeneration and economic growth , such as the iconic Newport transporter bridge and Venue Cymru in Llandudno . we be continue to invest throughout Wales , with over £ 790 million in UK Government funding through the city and regional growth deal . unlike the Conservative Government , whose £ 22 billion in unfunded commitment leave many Welsh levelling - up development at risk , our investment in these initiative be an example of how our plan for change will lead to a decade of national renewal for people the length and breadth of Wales . Wales now have the benefit of two Labour Governments commit to the regeneration and economic growth that will put more money in people ' s pocket , raise living standard . this be a partnership in power that will continue to deliver for the people of Wales . as we have hear this afternoon , the Welsh Government have a record - break funding settlement from the UK Government in the Budget of £ 21 billion , with £ 1 . 7 billion extra to spend on improve public service in Wales . the Welsh Government have commit £ 600 million of that extra funding to health and social care . I really welcome the recent news that wait time in Wales be head in the right direction . I hope that both Conservative and Plaid Cymru Members of the Senedd will reconsider their position on voting against the Welsh budget next week , because they be send the message that they do not want that extra investment into public service in Wales . from the point of view of Plaid Cymru , what be the Secretary of State do to address the structural inequality of the United Kingdom , which her Government be maintain in the partnership she talk about between Labour in Westminster and Labour in Cardiff ? the funding inequality that do not recognise our need remain there still . I do not think the right hon . Lady have really listen to the list of thing that have be announce for Wales in the past seven month . it be always the same with Plaid Cymru ; it be always about the structure and the process and not about the outcome and the priority of the people of Wales . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not , because the hon . Gentleman have have his speech . turn to steel , hon . member may recall that on election day last year , Tata be intend to shut down both its blast furnace , end steelmaking at Port Talbot . again , unlike the last Tory Government who promise to Port Talbot £ 80 million of support that do not exist , this Government have secure that amount of support and we be deliver for our steel community right across south Wales . in just six month , more than £ 50 million have be allocate through the transition board to help people and business , and this month I announce the first regeneration project to be support by £ 8 . 2 million of transition board fund . I mention early my priority to reset the relationship with the Welsh Government . since the election , people across Wales have be able to see the result of that reset : significant inward investment , a record - break Welsh Budget settlement , investment zone , freeport , clean energy project on and offshore , and UK and Welsh Governments work together and deliver for the people of Wales on economic growth , clean energy , water regulation , health and plan for future rail improvement . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not . after year of deadlock , it be this UK Government that step up with £ 25 million for the Welsh Government to keep coal tip safe . there be no well illustration of the new relationship between the two government than that co - operation on a matter that I know be of concern for people in former coalmine community across Wales . today ' s debate have raise some important issue and we have have some excellent contribution from colleague . I will run through a few , such as that of my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . whenever I hear the word " Neath " , I just think of the " Neath , Neath , Neath ! " rugby chant . that be definitely a " Neath , Neath , Neath ! " speech . on the contribution by the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , I recognise , have grow up very near to the border , the economic , cultural and personal tie that she describe . my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) ask for a meeting with her colleague to talk about Newport . I will be delighted to do that . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) talk about the 21st century school programme , as do my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire also pay tribute , which I echo , to all the public sector worker of Wales . to my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , I be delighted to see Wrexham AFC promote last season . I go to the game against Stockport at the end of the season and have , in my time , drunk quite a lot of that famous export , Wrexham Lager . my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) talk about the political dna in his constituency and about Ely , and I recognise his description of the sport club . I have spend many weekend on the touchline of pitch in Cardiff West and it be great to see the club go from strength to strength . my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) give a passionate speech about the history of his constituency , which be full of people with big heart . he definitely have a big heart . my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) mention his constituency ' s proud city of St Davids and the £ 1 million regional skill fund that we have recently announce for Pembrokeshire . I be very interested to hear mention from the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) of her Wind Street escapade . I have some of those as well , so maybe we should have a chat outside the Chamber about that at some point . I want to wish everybody a very happy St David ' s Day . I thank they for their contribution and I look forward to celebrate on Saturday . I be proud to have bring this debate to the Chamber to celebrate St David ' s Day . it be great to speak from the Government Benches for the first time follow an amazing labour victory at the general election . we now have a new partnership with the Welsh Government base on respect , trust and delivery , and these warm word be match with action : the Chancellor give a record £ 21 billion spending boost to the Welsh Government to support public service and infrastructure across Wales . I thank all member for their contribution . the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) mention many of they , as do the Secretary of State , so I will not go through they . it be great to welcome so many new labour colleague to this Chamber , and I look forward to watch they grow and develop over the come year . finally , I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , all member and our constituent — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . Non - league Football Clubs Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) it be a pleasure to be in the Chamber to discuss an issue that many of my constituent in Redditch and the village , along with constituent across the country , care so deeply about : non - league football . I be grateful to the Minister who will respond , and I put on record my thank for her steadfast commitment to bring in the Football Governance Bill . I know that she care deeply about and be heavily invest in the future of our nation ' s favourite game . I also thank the various football club , organisation and supporter who have contact I to tell I their positive and negative story about what be happen in their community . I be bless in my constituency to have several excellent non - league football club , include Redditch Borough football club and the aptly name Sporting Club Inkberrow FC , but today I will speak directly to Redditch United ' s contribution to our community . Non - league football club attract local fan and generate money through ticket sale , concession such as food , drink and merchandise , and parking fee . the fund flow directly into the local economy , benefit surround business , such as pub , caf é s , restaurant and shop . in partnership with the Football Association , Redditch United have commission a study on the club ' s various impact , and the result be staggering . United ' s total direct economic value to the local economy be over £ 2 . 5 million . the club generate nearly £ 200 , 000 in total health value , nearly £ 20 , 000 in social value and over £ 1 million in wellbeing value — all from just 10 full - time staff and 50 part - time staff . those number , and that effectiveness , would make any local authority , public health unit or Government scheme blush . my hon . friend will notice that I have find my Harlow Town FC badge and have wear it for the debate , and I welcome the importance he place on non - league football . do he agree that it be not just the pay staff member of the club whom we should recognise , but the huge number of volunteer ? I pay particular tribute to a Welsh lady who be our secretary , Donna Harvey . it be the community feel that bring people together and make non - league football so special . my hon . friend be absolutely right to point to the incredible impact of volunteer on our local football club . despite the professionalism of non - league football club in recent year , they would not exist if it be not for volunteer like his constituent . Non - league football be often more affordable for fan , allow people great access to entertainment in their community . the relatively low cost of attend match mean that more people can engage with the sport and participate in local economic activity surround the home ground . united charge £ 123 for a season ticket , and crowd have treble in the last five year . hear , hear ! thank you . More and more local boy and girl be build an affinity with the club , and local business be benefit . United have nearly 400 youth player visit its ground every week , marshal by nearly 500 volunteer , and over 100 adult player and 560 community programme participant . the economic footprint of daily training session at the Valley stadium be significant ; it reach everyone from our petrol station to our bus company , and from local shop sell sport drink and water to shop that help parent to fuel child before they play . engagement with Redditch United provide a wide range of benefit to different individual . the Football Association credit Redditch United with create 173 , 000 hour of social interaction , generate £ 187 , 000 in player wellbeing value , and £ 1 . 8 million in value generate from club volunteering hour . I be bless to have two non - league football club at step 4 and step 5 : Chasetown FC and Lichfield City . who can forget Chasetown ' s giant - kill exploit in the FA cup a few year ago ? the sense of achievement and togetherness that bring to the entire town of Burntwood be difficult to replicate . do my hon . friend agree that while it be important to recognise club ' economic value , it be the social value — the togetherness , camaraderie and civic - mindedness that come with support these club — that be so valuable for our community ? I should have send my hon . friend my speech beforehand , because I will come to that . I agree that non - league club bring more than economic value to their community . United have be at the forefront of mental health and wellbeing campaign . many volunteer have go on to work in the game and have become accredited coach , or have simply build up the confidence to get back into pay work after a lengthy absence . I recently attend a walk football event at the Valley stadium . it be hearten to see more senior player who be still active , and that those who have suffer from poor mental health feel that they have an outlet , and a community to be proud of . football be a tool to create partnership that local government and national government sometimes can not make . Redditch United have sign a sponsorship deal with internet giant Reddit , stem from a post on that site . I must admit , I be little overwhelmed at the sight of Reddit director from the United States visit our town , walk around the Valley stadium and cheer on the Reds . United do even more . the design - a - kit campaign have be launch for a second year , engage local school child . the club be work on make the fan base more diverse through work in school , host employability talk , mock interview , sport delivery , work experience , and work with local university and college , include a special education need and disability college that use the ground for sport provision . help young people into job that pay taxis will help we to rebuild our public service and put the public finance on a solid footing once again . the club be a network hub for business — and , yes , it be create the next generation of male and female footballer , who I hope will push United up the pyramid , and train the next generation of coach . the Valley be also home to the West Bromwich Albion lady team . despite that incredible work and the proven benefit for the economy and the community , the challenge face local non - league club be significant . it be get hard , not easy , for non - league club to be sustainable , and their contribution be at risk . limited revenue stream mean that non - league club often face financial struggle . they may struggle to maintain infrastructure , pay player and compete with large club . sometimes , promotion can mean be place in a geographically challenging league , which make it difficult to attract player , and in some case , relegation follow promotion . last night , I have the chance to speak with Ellis Platten , the creator of the " AwayDays " YouTube channel , who have do an excellent job of chronicle the impact of a local club hit tough time , not just on a fan base but on a community . it have chronicle everything from Durham City ' s unwanted winless run to Farsley Celtic play home game mile away from its home ground . such story be not uncommon when ownership fail . ten per cent of the team that be in Redditch United ' s league last year no long exist . the economic footprint and social impact of those club have be immediately lose , and there be nothing to replace they . no billionaire be interested in rescue small club , so non - league team simply collapse . as with the loss of a major high - street retailer , the knock - on impact on the local economy can be catastrophic . it be not just the economic benefit that be lose ; all the work do off the pitch at the heart of our community be lose , too . if Redditch United be to shut its door , we would lose so much more than a team . despite the excellent work of the Football Foundation to support club such as Redditch United and to improve local football facility , the balance between be a community asset and maintain financial sustainability can be challenge for such club , and too many town be lose they . usually when I mention football in the Chamber , it be in reference to Grimsby Town , but on this occasion I will mention Brigg Town FC , which be now in my constituency , thank to boundary change . it be a community interest club . I go to one of its match a few week ago . the hon . Gentleman and other member have draw attention to the important role that such club play in the local community . in order to secure finance , they encourage local business into sponsorship . do he agree that that be a vital source of income for non - league club ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . Redditch United would not be in existence if it be not for the support of local business in Redditch and the village . we be extremely appreciative of their sponsorship , and if some of they be watch this , we hope that they renew their sponsorship agreement for the next 12 month . trickle - down economic simply do not work in the football pyramid , and not simply in cash term . it can be difficult for non - league club to approach council for support when it come to planning , or to ask council to involve they in long - term strategic economic , health and leisure decision making . many transport route that serve local ground have be lose , and while premier league and championship club might receive significant support in make their ground accessible , the same do not apply to many non - league club , due to a lack of fund and expertise in town hall . I thank my hon . friend for give we the opportunity to talk about our local non - league football club , such as Northfield Town FC and Alvechurch FC ; I pay tribute to they for their community work . do he agree that many club face a challenge in find funding to bring on more woman ' s and girl ' team , and to invest in the infrastructure ? the same apply to disability team . that can be a barrier to access wide funding . I believe he know both football club well . do he share my hope that they will find that investment ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . as a goalkeeper , I let in many goal by Northfield Town FC , so I have make my contribution to his constituency . he be absolutely right . I have the fortune to bring the chairman of Redditch United , David Faulkner , to the Houses to Parliament to meet the chairman of the fa . we make it clear that there be not the money available at the moment to build the infrastructure and facility for girl and woman , and it be prevent participation , so we must do more to build that infrastructure and those facility in our community . Non - league football club be ideally place to support this Government ' s commitment to the growth and regeneration of our town centre , build a transport network fit for purpose , improve skill and education and , critically , reduce the burden on our NHS by promote sporting participation . the economic impact of non - league football club be multifacete . they contribute to local employment , business revenue and social programme . while their financial reach be small than their premier and football league rival , their influence significantly shape local economy and foster community cohesion and pride . Redditch have 500 player , but only 20 of they be on the man ' s first team . a football club be more than what happen on a Saturday afternoon . we need to talk about club , not just team , as the impact of club such as Redditch United be more than just their place in the football pyramid . when they be lose , the benefit to our economy and society be lose , too . not every non - league club have a Ryan Reynolds or a Rob McElhenney and accompany Disney + TV show . I wish they have , because if we have learn anything from the Wrexham story , it be that when a football club have the mean to be successful , it can rejuvenate a town . success breed confidence and pride . People start smile , and the money and investment follow , not just into the football club but throughout the city and regional infrastructure . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure such an important debate , celebrate the immense value of football and our local club . I commend the mention of woman and girl ; I use to play football myself for a team . I want to talk about Tamworth FC . my local chairman contact I about the 3up campaign , which be push for an extra promotional place from the national league to the English football league . that would provide more ambition for club , provide inspiration for fan and , crucially , ensure that money flow from the top right through the game to our low non - league club . do my hon . friend agree that we need to support initiative like that , to ensure that club and local economy benefit ? football be about competition . More relegation and more promotion be a good thing for I , so I certainly endorse Tamworth ' s support of the campaign . although I have focus on Redditch United and be proud of what the club be do on and off the pitch , I know that the excellent work it do , despite extreme challenge , be be repeat up and down the country by staff and volunteer . they be not ask for a handout — just for the respect and support they deserve . while I welcome this government and this Minister ' s commitment to deliver the Football Governance Bill , I hope that when the Bill be pass , the Government will be able to work with the Football Association , local authority and non - league club to review the sustainability and resilience of non - league football and , crucially , opportunity for growth via our non - league club . such a review into the financial sustainability , governance and gap in support for non - league club , at step 2 and below , would allow we to recognise what support they need and how we can finally ensure that the rich of our game make it down to the real grassroot . there be more we can do with local authority to ensure that transport link support the growth of club and encourage more fan to attend . we can help local authority to recognise local club ' importance and provide guidance on strategic planning , include the benefit of work alongside club in meeting leisure , education and economic priority . finally , and crucially , we need to offer the same governance support to non - league club , their fan basis and their community to ensure that we reduce the number of club force to drop down division or fold because they do not have the liquidity to continue their operation at the high level . secure the future and prosperity of non - league club could benefit many minister sit around the Cabinet table . I be unashamedly a passionate football fan , but my passion for non - league football and my team , Redditch United , be not just about what happen on the pitch for 90 minute . Non - league football club be often the unsung hero of our local economy . as I have explain , they not only put million into our economy but provide job , be the base for critical educational and social programme , help people back into work , and provide sporting facility enable thousand of boy and girl every week to stay fit and healthy . I hope that during this Parliament we will be able to investigate how we can use the tool available to the House to support they , the local economy that rely on they , and the community that love they . finally , I want to pay tribute to David Faulkner , his staff , and the volunteer who have make Redditch United more than just a football club . english football be one of our great export , which this Government want to see thrive for generation to come . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for highlight the impact of club such as Redditch United in his constituency on local community . indeed , we have hear from member on both side of the House about the huge impact that non - league club have on their area . english football be a fantastic global success story , and of course it all begin , and would not be possible without , grassroots football . I want to say something about the important contribution that football and the sporting sector make to our economy , and to community up and down the country . in October last year , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport publish new research measure the impact of the sport and physical activity sector on the economy . it show that the sector have contribute £ 53 . 6 billion to the UK economy in 2021 , which mean that it be worth more than 2 . 6 % of the UK ' s economy . in the same year , 878 , 000 people on full - time contract be employ in the sector . one of the reason the sport economy form such a significant proportion of the total economy be our footballe sector : the same research show that football , throughout the whole pyramid , include professional and grassroots football as well as football ' s indirect impact on the economy at large , generate £ 8 . 71 billion for the economy . the research do not even measure the societal benefit of actually play grassroots football , which I will touch on later . football club deliver significant economic benefit to their local economy , but they also deliver indirect economic benefit to the local community that they serve , attract visitor and bring increase footfall to the hospitality , retail , and transport sector . the Government want a thriving grassroots sport sector , with strong national governing body , include the Football Association , that can use their nationwide remit to deliver sport to people across the country . the DCMS provide the majority of support for grassroots sport through our arm ' s length body Sport England , which annually invest £ 250 million of lottery and Exchequer money . the fa be a long - term partner of Sport England , which be invest £ 26 . 1 million pound in the fa for 2022 to 2027 . as a government , we understand the value of grassroots sport facility . that be why we be deliver the multi - sport grassroot facility programme , which be invest £ 123 million of UK - wide funding in 2024 - 25 . it have help to fund a total of 559 project across England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland so far this year . project fund through the programme include new artificial grass pitch , new change pavilion and clubhouse , floodlight , fencing , pitch maintenance equipment , and goalpost . it be great to attend the Chorley Women versus AFC Fylde match a few week ago , as part of the Premier League ' s " More than a Game " trophy tour , and to see the impact of this funding at first hand in the improvement make to the facility . follow the autumn Budget , the Government confirm their continue support for elite and grassroots sport through future investment , and further detail of that investment will be confirm in due course . my hon . friend raise the importance of transport link to support the growth of club . I agree with he that we all need to play our part in support the case for our local club to be well serve by local transport , not only for football fan but for access to opportunity to participate in sport . I be discuss with colleague across Government how we can improve public transport access to and from sporting event , as I know that be an issue of interest and concern for Members on both side of the House . my hon . Friend also raise governance support for non - league club . the revised code for sport governance set out the level of transparency , diversity and inclusion , accountability and integrity that be require from the FA and other organisation that seek and be in receipt of public and national lottery funding . any governance concern regard non - league club should be raise with the fa , which have its own complaint procedure . Sport England oversee the fa ' s compliance with the code , and any concern about the governance of the fa should be raise with Sport England . that be why it be important that support for grassroots football continue into the future — because the influence of non - league football extend far beyond purely economic impact . Non - league football club have an important part to play in deliver wide societal benefit , foster social cohesion and build a strong sense of local identity . club often engage in community initiative and contribute to civic identity and pride in place . they run extensive outreach programme , volunteer initiative , and youth development scheme that offer safe space and educational opportunity to local resident . I have see that at first hand in my constituency , have visit club include Wombwell Town FC , Wombwell Main FC and Worsbrough Bridge Athletic FC , as well as see the work Elsecar Main FC have do with Elsecar Holy Trinity primary academy , revive its play field . I know the huge role community club play in my own area of Barnsley and across the country . an FA study from 2019 show that the value of regular grassroots football in England be over £ 10 billion per year . this consist of a direct economic value of just over £ 2 billion per year and a social wellbeing value of over £ 8 billion per year . the FA study also show that play regular grassroots football save the NHS over £ 43 million per year through reduce GP visit . it be great to attend the fa ' s " make for this Game " event in Parliament this week as part of its campaign to empower girl in school across the country to get involve in sport , no matter their age , role , ability , race , religion or ethnicity . I be look forward to support the fa campaign next Friday close to home in Barnsley for its fourth annual " big ever Football Session " . it be great to see that the fa ' s target of equal access to football for girl in 75 % of school have be meet , but we be committed to go far . this government believe every girl deserve the opportunity to get involve in whatever sport they choose , because we know the power of football club , from non - league club to professional club , in get people active and bring community together . Non - league club also bring about significant economic benefit and be an essential part of the social fabric of our country . it right that we also thank the thousand of volunteer who give up their time to support their local non - league club ; without they club simply would not survive . my hon . friend rightly pay tribute to the contribution of volunteer . this debate have be a brilliant opportunity to discuss the economic contribution of non - league football club . as I have set out , football and sport make a hugely important economic contribution to our economy and our country . this be exactly why the Government support non - league and grassroots football , and I again thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .