Speaker ' s Statement before we come to question , I know that there have be some commentary on what Members may or may not discuss in the Chamber in relation to Prince Andrew , some of which be inaccurate . there be understandably great interest in this matter , from member and from the public . for the benefit of the House , I would like to be clear that there be way for the House properly to consider this matter . any reflection on the conduct of member of the royal family can properly be discuss on substantive motion . I know that some member have already table such a motion . I be unable to allocate time for a debate on such a motion , but other be able to do so if they wish . the long - stand practice of the House , as set out in " Erskine May " , be that criticism of member of the royal family can not be make as part of question . I hope that clarification be helpful , as there have be a lot of online speculation . oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Public Sector Reform what step he be take to develop the Government ' s approach to public sector reform . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . the Prime Minister have ask I to help drive the Government ' s delivery of the public ' s priority : boost living standard , fix our NHS and secure our border . I and the team be focus on change how Government work , to build the foundation of a modern british state that deliver for the british people , use modern technology with more accountability and by break down silos and outdated hierarchy . could my right hon . friend outline what role he think digital ID could play in support public sector reform ? I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology for her dedicated work on the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement on digital identity . as of today , the Cabinet Office have responsibility for the policy , legislation and strategic oversight of the digital ID programme , with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology lead on technical design , build and delivery . together , we will work to build the foundation of a modern british state that deliver well public service for people across the country , and digital ID will play a part in that work . the last Government leave the public service on which our constituent rely on their knee , with many just about keep their head above water , and the Probation Service be no different . since be elect , I have come to understand the dire ramification of what can go wrong when local probation service be not perform to the standard that local people should expect , especially when it come to the suitable placement and proper monitoring of serious offender post release . what engagement be take place between the Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Justice to ensure that when error be make by local probation delivery unit , there be proper accountability and corrective measure be take to protect our constituent from those who could still cause they harm ? I know that my hon . friend have be a vocal campaigner for her constituent in relation to the injustice experience through the Probation Service in and around her constituency . public protection be , of course , a key priority for this Government , and serious further offence , although rare , be devastating for victim and their family . the Ministry of Justice and his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service take learning from serious further offence review , inspectorate of probation report and internal audits to identify opportunity for improvement , and the Cabinet Office support those Departments in these endeavour . in my constituency , organisation such as just the Job , Yatton House , Northdale and Chopsticks provide valuable service for adult with complex disability and learn difficulty , so will the Minister join I in commend they ? may I urge he to continue the work that I know his Department be do on explore where local voluntary and charitable organisation can play an effective and efficient role in deliver public service for local community ? may I join the right hon . member in celebrate the success of the organisation in his constituency ? he and the House will know that when the Government talk about delivery , we be really talk about those organisation that deliver real change for people ' s life , not about process in Whitehall . it be organisation in the voluntary sector , as well as Whitehall Departments , local authority and private sector business , that help we deliver that change across the country . I thank the Minister for his very positive answer . what step have be take to improve community healthcare service , to ease the pressure on our hospital and encourage more care in local area ? the hon . member will no doubt have hear from the Health Secretary in Health question and subsequent statement about the NHS 10 - year plan , which be move the delivery of service from hospital into the community . we know that too many patient end up in A & E , for example , make hospital delivery very difficult , because they can not access support and care in the community . that be why the Department of Health and Social Care have be set out its plan for support the delivery of care service in the local community , where local people be . United Kingdom Security Vetting what recent assessment he have make of the efficiency of the security clearance process of United Kingdom Security Vetting . the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that UKSV deliver a security clearance process that be efficient and fit for purpose . security vetting clearance be be process within agree timescale , and UKSV performance be monitor monthly . it be work to ensure that demand for vetting be forecast well . the Minister will know how proud we in Barrow be to be build our world - class nuclear submarine . work in the shipyard require security clearance , which be provide by UKSV . however , some of my constituent have lose job offer due to the significant delay in receive clearance . that have a severe impact on those individual as well as on our ability to deliver the submarine that defend the country . can the Minister assure I that step be be take to speed up the process ? my hon . friend will know well than anyone that Barrow make a critical contribution to national security . I can assure she that UKSV continue to undertake a programme of work to improve the efficiency of the vetting process and that further work be ongoing to digitise and improve the automation of process . if she have any further concern , I would be happy to discuss they with she . voluntary sector : partnership work what recent step his Department have take to strengthen partnership work with the voluntary sector . the Government believe that strong partnership with the voluntary sector be central to deliver for people across the country . follow publication in July of the civil society covenant — our ambitious plan to partner with civil society — we be now work with partner to launch a new £ 100 million programme that will reform service at a local level to help prevent the most vulnerable from fall into crisis . it will involve partner with the voluntary sector to support people who might otherwise fall through the crack between service , such as prison leaver or those suffer domestic abuse . I welcome the covenant and the Minister ' s response . research from the National Council for Voluntary Organisations indicate that the charity and voluntary sector deliver £ 14 billion of public service annually . in my constituency , Hillingdon citizen advice bureau , Mencap and Mind provide vital advice and support , but in recent year their funding have be cut by the local authority . what step be the Cabinet Office take to reform public procurement and strengthen partnership work with the voluntary sector so that such organisation can play a great role in future ? I know that my hon . friend have be a real leader in work with voluntary organisation in his constituency of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , and indeed across the country . as he know , those organisation be often close to the community they serve . I be proud to say that , from April next year , all Government Departments must set a two - year target for direct spend with voluntary , community and social enterprise , and they must publish their result annually . that be a clear commitment to this Government ' s belief that the voluntary , community and social enterprise sector be vital to rebuild and renew our country . I welcome the Minister ' s reassurance . the UK share prosperity fund be about to come to an end , to be replace by the local growth fund , and voluntary and community organisation in Northern Ireland have real concern that they will be leave in limbo between one end and the other starting . I recognise what the Minister just say about the two - year funding pot , but what reassurance can he give those organisation in Northern Ireland that their funding will carry over ? they support some of the most vulnerable people in our community . my understanding be that the new funding will start in the new financial year , but I will look into the specific issue the hon . Gentleman raise in relation to Northern Ireland , and I will write to he to reassure he on that . Future Pandemic Preparedness what progress he have make with Cabinet colleague on improve cross - Government co - ordination on preparedness for a future pandemic . what progress he have make with Cabinet colleague to improve cross - Government co - ordination on preparedness for a future pandemic . as the response to module 1 of the covid - 19 inquiry make clear , the Cabinet Office be play a great role in preparedness for cross - cut catastrophic risk . our preparedness for future pandemic have be step up through Exercise Pegasus , the large ever national pandemic response exercise . last week I have the pleasure of meet the general manager of one of the major supermarket in my constituency . we talk about our memory of the early day of the covid pandemic , with the row and row of empty shelf . all pandemic planning should build on the lesson learn from the last one , so what role be the retail and logistic sector play in that ? my hon . friend be right : business that move and sell vital good be an essential part of any pandemic response . the resilience action plan , which be publish in response to module 1 of the covid - 19 inquiry , seek to enable a whole - of - society approach to pandemic resilience . as part of that effort , we invite business to participate in the ongoing national pandemic exercise , Exercise Pegasus . as a pharmacist who work on the frontline throughout the pandemic , I would like to ask what discussion the Cabinet Office have have with local resilience forum to ensure that area such as my North Somerset constituency have the local co - ordination structure need to respond effectively to a future pandemic , particularly give the strain on our community health service ? I thank my hon . friend for his vital work on the frontline during the pandemic . the Government absolutely recognise that the most complex emergency impact the whole system . that be why there have be extensive engagement with local partner ahead of Exercise Pegasus . the exercise will test national - to - local co - ordination arrangement , and lesson from the exercise will help strengthen pandemic preparedness at national and local level . during the pandemic , Government agency , body and department suddenly discover way to comply with GDPR to share significant amount of datum , which be critical to manage the pandemic response . since then , the shroud of use GDPR as a reason not to share datum have once again choke opportunity to solve the big problem face our society . as part of his work on resilience planning , will the Minister ensure that datum be share with Departments on a day - to - day basis in future , to get around the use of GDPR as a reason not to share it ? the hon . Member make a sensible and constructive point , and I can give he the assurance he seek . since January , increase our preparedness have include publish an update central crisis management doctrine — the Amber Book — as well as launch the biothreats radar to improve data sharing . we have also , as I have say , undertake the large ever national pandemic planning exercise . strengthen National Resilience what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . in July the Government publish the resilience action plan , which set out our strategic vision for a strong and more resilient United Kingdom . the Government also successfully carry out the second ever national drill of the emergency alert system last month . I be pleased to tell the House that the test reach 96 % of cell mast across the country . that be a significant improvement on the first test in April 2023 and indicate that more people be receive these critical alert than ever before . in August , authority declare a major incident after a wildfire break out in langdale forest and spread dangerously close to RAF Fylingdales , the ballistic missile early warning base . give the increase threat that wildfire pose to our security , can the Minister confirm whether he will consider automatically activate a national resilience response in future incident where critical military infrastructure be under threat ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I commend the emergency service and the local community who come together in her constituency to bravely tackle the Langdale moor fire . the risk of wildfire to critical site be well know to local responder , who plan for such event and can call on central Government for support . the national resilience wild - fire adviser assess what additional wildfire national capability might be need to increase resilience for future incident . the Government ' s own adviser tell we that the climate and nature crisis pose a huge resilience threat to our country . yet , in an answer to a question on wildfire , the Minister do not even reference that climate change make they more frequent and severe . what be the Government do to tackle this huge threat from climate change ? the Government routinely conduct and update assessment on a whole range of threat . on gov . uk , the Government publish the outcome of those assessment in the national risk register and in their chronic risk analysis , include on climate change , biodiversity loss and the impact on our ecosystem . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the new Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster to his post . I know that he be one of the most able performer in the Government , and he be now in one of the most important and under - appreciate role in Government . for the good of the country , I wish he well . he be also the first Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister . we conservative congratulate he on how well Downing Street have be run since he take over — we have enjoy it greatly . phase 2 be prove to be a real belter . on the alleged spying on member of this House , Downing Street have reveal that the Prime Minister become aware on 13 September that the case be about to collapse . when be the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister first tell that the trial be unlikely to proceed , and who tell he ? I be slightly struggle to make the connection with resilience , Mr Speaker , but I be very happy to respond — perhaps I can help , then . security do include the resilience and the security of this House . I can go through it a bit more if need be , but I be sure that the Minister will use his imagination to answer . thank you , Mr Speaker . well , let I tell the hon . Gentleman . the decision not to prosecute be take independently by the Crown Prosecution Service . the Government be extremely disappointed by that decision and publish the deputy National Security Adviser ' s three witness statement . all three clearly articulate the very serious threat pose by China . no Minister or special adviser in this government interfere with the case . I wonder whether Conservative Members could have say the same about their government . okay , I will repeat the question for the Security Minister , because either he do not hear it or he choose not to answer it . my question be very specific . we know that the Prime Minister be tell on 13 September that the trial be unlikely to proceed — Downing Street have tell we that . my question be : when be the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster tell , and who tell he ? he oversee the Cabinet Office ' s National Security Secretariat , and he chair the National Security Council . when be he tell ? rise — he ' s right there ! why doesn ' t he answer ? order . we have have one or two little bit of that , Mr Mayhew , and we do not need it . you should know well ; you have be here long enough now . I expect a little bit more respect . for the purpose of transparency , the Prime Minister take the decision to publish the dnsa ' s witness statement . he have be crystal clear that no Minister and no special adviser in this Government interfere in any way with the case . I would be very grateful if the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) confirm whether that be the case under the previous Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the recent cyber - attack on Jaguar Land Rover be report to have cost the UK £ 1 . 9 billion , make it the most expensive in british history . it follow similar crippling incident for company such as M & S and the Co - op . individual company be take their own security decision , but in our increasingly interdependent world , the impact of those decision can be feel at national and international level . will the Minister update the House on the progress be make in that area under the Government ' s resilience action plan , and when do he expect the introduction of the cyber - security and resilience Bill , which be mention in last year ' s King ' s Speech , so that we can assure the british public that such attack be be treat as a press matter of national security ? I be genuinely grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that matter , which be of real concern for the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister and myself . protect national security , include by defend against cyber - attack , be absolutely our first duty , and she be absolutely right to highlight concern about the attack on Jaguar Land Rover . we take this incredibly seriously . indeed , my first visit as a Cabinet Office Minister be to the National Cyber Security Centre . I can tell she that the Home Office be progress a new package of legislative measure to protect UK business from ransomware attack , which , as she know , be the most harmful cyber - crime face the UK . Civil Service Recruitment what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of civil service recruitment . welcome , Minister . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . this government ' s aim be to recruit the bright and good talent into the civil service — brilliant people from across the UK with the skill to deliver the priority of the british people . we have already take step to improve recruitment , with the first ever cross - Government standardise recruitment process and benchmark , to strengthen accountability and bring fast , high - quality and more inclusive recruitment . fast , fair , inclusive : that be our recruitment vision . the Government be restrict application to the civil service fast stream summer internship programme in favour of those kid who they deem to be from working - class background . what do the Minister have to say to the child of hard - work nurse , police officer and teacher who will now not get the same opportunity because of decision make by this Government ? the fast stream programme , of which I be proud to be a graduate , be the no . 1 graduate employee scheme in the country . we be proud that we have have over 70 , 000 applicant for just 754 appointment . we know that we have do very well in increase diversity , with application from ethnic minority candidate , woman and people with disability , but we be fall short in application from those from low socioeconomic background . I make no apology about take proactive decision to ensure that people who do not necessarily have the same social capital or relationship strength as those from other high social background can take internship . the number of working - class people in the civil service be three time small than the broad UK workforce , and we be take action on that . I call the shadow Minister . last year , the Government promise we that they be go to slash the size of the civil service , but instead the late figure show that the size of the civil service have increase by 7 , 000 compare with last year . it be not only other Departments that have fail to get a grip : the headcount of the Minister ' s own Department be up by 7 % . will the Minister guarantee that when the next set of figure be publish , it will show a reduction in the size of the civil service and the size of the Cabinet Office ? under the last Tory Government , Boris Johnson say that he would cut the number of people employ by the civil service by 91 , 000 , but that figure go up . Jeremy Hunt say that he would cap number in the civil service , but they go up . the Conservatives lose control of the civil service , just as they lose control of our border , our street and our prison , but we be take action to bring those number down . I think that the Minister be miss the fact that she be in Government now and have be for well over a year , but the number be go up not down , as they promise . the Minister be correct when she say that the civil service must be able to recruit the bright and the good , but surely she can see that that be not help when the most senior civil servant , hand - pick by the Prime Minister barely month ago , face a barrage of medium briefing from within Government . will the Minister and her Department commission an inquiry into the breach of the code of conduct for special adviser follow the personal attack on the Cabinet Secretary , and will she condemn the vicious medium briefing that have clearly come from within no . 10 ? we have full confidence in the Cabinet Secretary and we condemn all leak and breach . we undertake to look into how any leak from Government take place . public procurement : Employment what step he be take to increase employment opportunity through public procurement . what step he be take to increase employment opportunity through public procurement . I will answer on behalf of the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) , who , with your permission , Mr Speaker , be at an event with the Prime Minister in his constituency today . this government ' s new social value model include fair working skill criterion , so that authority can reward supplier provide good - quality job , support people into work and provide their employee with additional development opportunity . we be consult on further reform to public procurement and will update the House in due course . with the Government ' s welcome commitment to improve term , condition and career progression in adult social care , as demonstrate through the plan fair pay agreement and the care workforce pathway , will the Minister confirm that the Government ' s response to the public procurement consultation will deliver a public interest test that accelerate insource and require provider to recognise trade union , as well as more sustainable career and long - term employment opportunity ? as always , my hon . friend make a powerful case . the Government want public body to examine carefully how good to deliver public service . that be why we be consult on proposal to introduce a public interest test , allow for the evaluation of service be more effectively deliver in - house before they be contract out , cover value for money , service quality and wide social and economic benefit . we will consider the range of response , include those from trade union . I declare an interest as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for british bus . Alexander Dennis and Wrightbus create 13 job for every four directly hire in bus manufacturing , and for decade Alexander Dennis have be an invaluable piece of the scottish economy . after the business almost leave Scotland follow the Scottish National party ' s disastrous chinese bus - buying strategy , to its credit it spend nearly £ 4 million fix the near fatal error . will the Minister set out what the Cabinet Office be do through public procurement so that my constituent ' taxpayer money be maximise Falkirk , scottish and British - base business ? unlike the SNP Government , evidently , this Labour Government believe that where thing be make and who make they matter . that be why we be consult on further procurement reform to boost domestic supply chain and create more opportunity for business of all size , whether that be in Falkirk or across the United Kingdom . delivery of Government Priorities what step he be take to improve the delivery of Government priority . the Prime Minister have ask I to help to drive forward delivery of the public ' s priority . in Scotland , we have deliver more money for public service than at any point since devolution begin — an extra £ 9 . 1 billion over the next three year . I know that my hon . friend and his constituent in Airdrie and Shotts will expect to see that money invest in Scotland ' s NHS , school and frontline policing , instead of be fritter away by the SNP . in less than 18 month , this Government have deliver defence contract that will support scottish job for year to come ; invest in the pride of place scheme , which will see scottish town centre rejuvenate , include those in North Lanarkshire ; and commit record funding to the Scottish Parliament to invest in scottish public service . do my right hon . friend agree that that stand in stark contrast to the priority of the SNP in government in Holyrood , which have just waste more taxpayer ' money on produce yet another tired paper on independence , while one in six scot wait on NHS waiting list ? my hon . friend rightly recognise the defence dividend that Labour have deliver for Scotland , include the recent £ 10 billion frigate deal with Norway . as my hon . friend ' s constituent will know only too well , more people have wait over two year for NHS treatment in Lanarkshire alone compare with the whole of England — that be a remarkable stat . next year , voter in Airdrie and Shotts and across Scotland will look at that record and have the chance to vote out the tired SNP Government , who be fail to deliver on public service in Scotland , and choose a new direction with Anas Sarwar and Scottish Labour . the Cabinet Office co - chair the flood resilience taskforce in order to deliver on its priority to bolster flood defence , but resident in Eastbourne at this very point in time on Wartling Road , Seaside and Whitley Road — and , early this week , on Macmillan Drive — have to wade through canal create by flooding bring about by adverse weather . the work be do to protect against flooding be not enough . will the Minister meet with I and other stakeholder to figure out how we can well protect resident , business and school such as Motcombe school from the flood risk ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he know that the Government take flood risk very seriously , and it be a key risk in our national risk register . that be why the Government have increase spending on flood defence significantly in the recent Budget and spending review , but I absolutely recognise that there be more to do . I will ensure that we look at the specific circumstance in his constituency and help he to understand when funding will come to support his constituent . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I think the Government be right to identify economic growth as a key priority . I also agree with the Chancellor , who this week identify Brexit as one of the reason that they be find growth tough to find . brexit red tape be a millstone around the neck of our economy ; it have add 2 billion piece of extra business paperwork , pile on cost and stifle innovation . business in my constituency tell I they have stop sell to our near neighbour in the world ' s large trading bloc altogether . do the Minister agree that if the Government be serious about grow our economy , they should unleash trade by join a bespoke customs union with the European Union ? may I welcome the hon . Lady to her new spokesperson role ? we recognise the impact that Brexit have have on the UK economy , which be why we have enter into a new trade deal in our first year in government with the European Union . a very key part of that be the sanitary and phytosanitary agreement for food and drink trade , which my right hon . friend the Member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) be work on with european counterpart at the moment . once that be implement , we look forward to see trade improve , growth increase and price come down on the shelf in supermarket across the United Kingdom . Civil Service : opportunity outside London what step he be take to increase opportunity to work in the civil service for people who live outside London . our great civil service serve all the people across the UK , so it should look like they , sound like they and come from the same town , city , region and nation as the community it serve . by 2030 , half of the senior civil service will be locate outside London , with half of the fast stream placement also in the region and nation . this Government be absolutely committed to radical reform to ensure that people from all part of the UK can have a full and rewarding career in his Majesty ' s civil service . the Government ' s plan to relocate civil service job outside London will bring high - quality job across the United Kingdom and ensure that policy be deliver close to the community it serve . however , none of the area identify for that relocation be in the east of England , and notably , none be in Essex . what step be the Government take to ensure that these opportunity exist in every region , include my constituency of Southend East and Rochford , and will the Minister meet I to discuss the opportunity that be available ? my hon . friend be a real champion for his constituency . we greatly value the contribution of the 23 , 000 civil service staff who be base in the east of England , and be determined that the people of Southend East and Rochford should have the same opportunity as those in Redcar , or anywhere else in the country . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss this matter far . strengthen National Security what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national security . keep our country and our citizen safe be the first duty of this Government , and the Cabinet Office play a central role in that endeavour . my right hon . friend the Security Minister and I regularly bring Ministers together from across Government to take decision that strengthen our country ' s national security . recently , my Department publish the resilience action plan , and we be now implement the national security strategy , which sharpen our effort to improve national security . later today , my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) and I will meet small and medium - sized enterprise in the defence sector and skill training provider to discuss how we in Dorset can benefit from the Government ' s defence industrial strategy . can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster tell I how this Government ' s commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % by 2027 will create job and growth in my constituency of Bournemouth West ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and welcome the company from she and her colleague ' s constituency to Parliament today . as she know , this Labour Government be commit to the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . our strategic defence review and defence industrial strategy will also make defence an engine for economic growth , create job and drive innovation in every nation and region . I particularly thank institution such as Bournemouth and Poole college and Bournemouth University for their important work , and for their focus on develop defence skill for the future and create job for young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency . there be report that Jonathan Powell write a box note to the Prime Minister on the China spy trial . when no . 10 be ask about this , the official spokesman say that it be for the Cabinet Office to answer , and as Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the right hon . Gentleman be uniquely place to tell we . do Powell write a box note to the Prime Minister — yes or no ? no . infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on the infected blood compensation scheme . some 2 , 476 people have now receive offer total over £ 1 . 8 billion . alongside the work I be do to prepare further secondary legislation and a public consultation , I be pleased to announce that application be open today for further interim payment of £ 210 , 000 to the estate of infected people who have sadly pass away . in addition , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have now ask every live infected person register with a support scheme to come forward and start their claim , and have also open a service for people to register their intent to claim . many survivor of the infected blood scandal and bereaved family be still wait far too long for compensation . they include my constituent , the family of Kevin Newman , who be infect with HIV and hepatitis C while a pupil at Treloar ' s college and tragically die in 2018 . the family receive their first payment last December , but have be wait for another ever since , and now have to fill in yet another form with a time limit . will the Minister ensure that these payment be speed up ? absolutely , and that have be my objective throughout . IBCA take a test and learn approach , and this House quite rightly hold I to account at the start of that process when the number be low . those number be rise exponentially at the moment — that be why there be offer total over £ 1 . 8 billion — but the hon . Lady should be reassure that I be 100 % not complacent , and will continue to drive progress . Civil Service job : Scotland what progress his Department have make on the relocation of civil service job to Scotland . in May , we commit to strengthen our presence in Scotland and across the UK , ensure that talent from across the country can have a full career in the civil service without have to move to London . my first visit as Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister and Minister for intergovernmental relation be to Scotland , and I be delighted to visit the Cabinet Office ' s second headquarters — base in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Glasgow North — which will continue to offer more career and opportunity in the civil service . do the Minister agree that have different role and different level of position within the civil service in Glasgow and in Scotland be important so that people can progress their career while remain in Glasgow or in Scotland ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we want senior role in location across the country and not just in London . that be why we have commit to ensure that 50 % of UK - base senior civil service job be locate outside London by 2030 . I should add that on my visit to the Cabinet Office headquarters in my hon . friend ' s constituency , we meet senior civil servant there , and we look forward to return again in the month ahead . Civil Service Strikes how many work day have be impact by strike in the civil service since July 2024 . I declare that I be a member of the Unite union and refer to my relevant entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests on support in general election campaign . the Office for National Statistics estimate that 36 , 000 working day be lose because of labour dispute in the public administration and defence sector , which include the majority of the civil service , between July 2024 and August 2025 . that be down from the 95 , 000 day lose between May 2023 and June 2024 . I be grateful for that answer , albeit partial , from the Minister , because he be quite right : he rely on the Office for National Statistics for the compilation of these figure . now , even its staff have a strike mandate . they be refuse to attend work even for two day a week . what be the Government do to enforce attendance level at work ? when do he think the ONS will find time to report on it ? attendance level be certainly important , but the hon . Gentleman have get some chutzpah , because under the previous Prime Minister — I note he be no long in his place , although he be early in the question — the UK lose more day due to strike action than France do , and the hon . Gentleman be here try to lecture we about it . we will work in partnership with trade union to avoid unnecessary disruption and not end up in the situation that the last Government do . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this be my first appearance at the Dispatch Box as Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister . in this role , I have be task with modernise the state to build a system that will well deliver the public ' s priority and well communicate the change we be make across the country . sadly , too many political party today wish to tear down our institution and the public service we all rely on as the solution to the public ' s frustration with a legacy system that struggle to deliver change , but there be an alternative . this Government be commit to renewal and deliver on the promise of change . we will build a modern state and well public service that be there when people need they . we will lead the way to a Britain renew . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will just answer the question from the official Opposition that I could not answer in substantive question about when I be inform of the Crown Prosecution Service decision to not proceed with the case . I be inform of this decision after the Prime Minister . I should also inform the House that I look forward to answer more question before the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy on Wednesday next week . transform Britain ' s public service will be a mammoth task , but while the white heat of artificial intelligence and digital technology offer a revolutionary opportunity to improve performance and value for money in healthcare , tax service and everything in between , will the Government seize this opportunity to modernise our public service , work with the bright and good industry across Britain ? the answer be absolutely yes . all our constituent know from their experience at home , whether they be try to do their banking , do their shopping or book a holiday , that they have the power to do it , when they want to do it , how they want to do it , on their phone , with service deliver in the way they want . that be in complete contrast to a number of our public service , and the public rightly expect , when they be pay tax money for public service , that we catch up with the private sector and deliver well public service that work in the way they want . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for give we a degree more clarity . perhaps he will give we a degree more clarity again . be he tell that the alleged case of spy against member of Parliament be due to collapse before the information become public and , if so , who tell he ? I be not inform . I believe the right hon . Gentleman , but I find that answer extraordinary , and I think he should find it extraordinary , too . as we have already say , the right hon . Gentleman chair the National Security Council . he oversee the Cabinet Office ' s national security secretariat . the Prime Minister know , the Home Secretary know , the Cabinet Secretary know , the chief of MI5 know , the Attorney General ' s Office know , but the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister do not . have he ask why he be not tell , and what answer be he give ? the hon . Member seem to be confuse by his list of institution . the only relevant institution in this case be the Crown Prosecution Service . it be the CPS that independently decide whether to bring forward these case , and it be the independent decision of the Crown Prosecution Service not to proceed . might I just point out that the Opposition ' s argument over the last few week have be quite bemuse ? they start with an accusation that there be political interference in a Crown Prosecution Service case . that be prove not to be the case , so they change their argument and be now ask , " why do you not politically interfere , because that be the way we do thing in this country ? " storm Benjamin be mercifully not forecast to affect my Carlisle constituency today . however , when storm do land , storm - relate power cut can last hour , and quite often day , in north Cumbria and can include the loss of power to mobile phone mast . fix telecom operator be under a licence obligation to ensure that they have power back at their key infrastructure point , but no such obligation apply to the mobile operator . what assessment have be make of the resilience of mobile network in the event of a prolong power cut ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question . we absolutely recognise the impact that the loss of communication service can have on constituency like hers . the Cabinet Office be responsible for the co - ordination of resilience and crisis management across Government , and I have see at first hand the diligence and professionalism of crisis team in Cobra . I would be more than happy to discuss this matter with my hon . friend far , and to represent her concern to the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . last week , it be report that no . 10 may have block the publication of a new Joint Intelligence Committee report on the severe threat to national security pose by the climate and nature crisis . with the Government ' s own adviser make it clear that we be in no way prepare for the effect of climate change that we be already see — such as wildfire , flood and storm , which we have hear about today — let alone the change that be expect in the come decade , can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster please tell the House whether it be true that the Government be try to block the Joint Intelligence Committee chief ' s effort to keep we all safe ? when can we expect the report to see the light of day ? we be on topical , folk . the Government take seriously the risk of climate change and the risk it pose to national security . that be why we be take action to mitigate that risk and to reduce our carbon emission . as the hon . Lady will know , we publish the outcome of routine assessment do by the Government in relation to the national risk register on gov . uk , and that will continue to be the case . cryptocurrencie and digital asset be hold by an increase number of UK citizen — over 8 million people , accord to recent figure — and the UK have the potential to be a world leader in this field , support our growth mission . can the Minister detail what step he have take to ensure that we rapidly put in place a regulatory regime that give confidence to the industry to develop and to company to be base in the UK , while provide protection for consumer ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for the work that he do in co - chair the crypto and digital asset all - party parliamentary group . financial service be integral to our mission for economic growth , and we be absolutely committed to create the right condition for a vibrant , competitive and innovative financial service sector . that be why the Government be proceed with proposal to create a new financial service regulatory regime for cryptoasset . in the absence of a plan , the Government appear to be centralise power and bureaucracy in the form of new quango . More than 25 have be create since this government come into office . what be the Minister do to drive ministerial accountability and , crucially , to ensure that there be sunset clause so that when quango have meet their objective , they be wind up and come to an end ? the Government agree with the principle of the hon . member ' s question . as I say to the House early , we want to reduce the layer of bureaucracy and to be able to deliver more action and few word . that be why we be take action to close arm ' s length body and other institution . most significantly , we have announce that we will close NHS England and bring decision back into the Department for Health and Social Care for Ministers to make . I be pleased that the Minister give an update early on the work of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , but the process be still take too long . may I press the Minister to undertake work specifically to expedite the timescale in which compensation be expect to be pay ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for infected blood victim , and he can rest assure that I will continue to drive progress as quickly as I possibly can . that be how we have get to the stage where over £ 1 . 8 billion - worth of offer have be make , and I will continue to drive that progress quickly . I have recently be contact by International House Torquay , a language school , which have welcome the opportunity for german foreign student to use ID card to travel as a group . can the Minister advise what further opportunity there will be for other european country such as Switzerland , Italy and Spain to take advantage of a similar scheme ? we be go even far than that , because the Government be look to negotiate a youth experience scheme with the European Union . it will of course be cap , but it will give significant opportunity not just for young Brits to travel , work and study abroad , but to welcome young Europeans here . at my meet and greet session last week , my constituent Mick also raise that point about the importance of our young people have more opportunity to work and study abroad , include in Europe . I be so pleased by the Government ' s announcement of a youth mobility scheme with the EU , but could I ask the Minister for an update on those plan and how they will benefit my constituent in Aylesbury ? I thank my hon . friend for again raise this issue . any scheme would give young Brits , include her young constituent in Aylesbury , the opportunity to travel and experience other country ' culture , as well as to work and study abroad . of course , the exact parameter will be subject to discussion , and negotiation be under way , but we certainly hope to stand up these opportunity for young Brits as soon as possible . I welcome the Paymaster General ' s remark on the acceleration of the delivery of payment in relation to infected blood . it be very welcome for one of my constituent who have have it . I also welcome his response to the additional report by Sir Brian Langstaff in July . give that , can he update the House on the lifetime of the public inquiry and any conversation he have have about end the inquiry , which seem to be go on rather a long time give that the legislation be pass in May last year ? I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , and I again pay tribute to he for his hugely important work in this area when he be the Paymaster General . on the public inquiry and the recent report , I hope to update the House in due course — subject , of course , to your permission , Mr Speaker — about action on the recommendation . on the public inquiry remain open , that be of course a matter for the chair , Sir Brian Langstaff . I have hear from small business locally , include a butcher ' s and a lighting supplier , about how Brexit have impose extra barrier on small business such as theirs . will the Minister outline how the UK - EU common understanding will improve condition for small business , particularly those that import from and export to the EU ? my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for her constituent , and the common understanding will of course benefit the business she mention . our deal on emission , energy trading , food and agricultural trade will all reduce cost for business . astonishingly , the Conservatives and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) want to reverse that and reimpose those cost on business . give that the Cabinet Office advise the Government on establish public inquiry , will the Minister meet the family of the senior military and intelligence personnel who be kill when an RAF Chinook helicopter crash on the Mull of Kintyre in 1994 ? the family have gather compelling evidence suggest that the Ministry of Defence be aware that the Mk 2 Chinook in which they be travel be not airworthy . they be petition the Government to establish an independent , judge - lead public inquiry . will the Minister meet the family or at least advise a relevant Cabinet colleague so to do ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who raise a very serious case . if he be able to write to I directly about it , I will certainly look at what would be the most suitable ministerial meeting . I recently meet estonian mp to hear about their experience of use digital ID over the last two decade , and particularly about how people ' s ability to see who have access their datum be the cornerstone of the data privacy control at the heart of their system . they talk about the efficiency gain across the public and private sector , such as when someone change their name after marriage or buy a property . how do the Minister see modernisation of the state improve the delivery of public service in the UK ? in our public service , almost everywhere we look , outdated digital and datum system trap we in the past . we be laser focus on reform the state . central to that be a free , universal digital ID that will bring the state to all citizen and improve access to public service . a national digital identity system be a public good that be long overdue and this Government will deliver it . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have just come to the Dispatch Box and say that we have do a new trade deal with the European Union , which I think be news to both the Prime Minister and Brussels . the only thing this government have do so far in term of EU relation be to sell out our fishing industry for the next 12 year . with that in mind , will the Minister actually stand up for british interest in future negotiation with Brussels ? I stand up for british interest in every negotiation with Brussels . I will tell the hon . Gentleman what be not stand up for british interest . we negotiate , within 10 month of come into government , the new common understanding that will be good for job , bear down on bill and give we the tool to secure our border . the leader of the conservative party oppose it before even read it . I have be think about the cost of software licensing in the public sector , because North West Anglia NHS foundation trust be try to move to an electronic patient record and one of the big ongoing cost of that be third - party payment for software . other trust be in the same position , as be many school pay for pupil management software . will the procurement Minister commit to look into whether we can instead deliver some of that in - house and save significant sum ? case of the kind my hon . friend be talk about be the reason we have be consult on a public interest test . on the specific case he raise , if he write to I I will ensure that the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) provide he with a response . my constituent Phil be in the special category mechanism for the 916 people who be inexplicably exclude from the infected blood compensation scheme in February , even though the Government ' s expert group say in August last year that they should be compensate . on 5 June , the Paymaster General say he would consider the compensation arrangement . I may have miss it — forgive I if I have — but I also ask for a list of condition that might be include within that . do he have an update for I , please ? I be certainly look at the issue of the special category mechanism , as I undertake to do . if the hon . Lady write to I I can look at the specific list , but I be also hope , with Mr Speaker ' s permission , to update the House on this and other infected blood issue very shortly . resident in a housing development in my constituency be face a number of issue after yet another developer have go bust . part of the share communal land have revert back to the ownership of the Duchy of Cornwall , rather than to the resident themselves , who have to purchase the land back and cover the duchy ' s legal cost . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , quite rightly , have Cabinet oversight , but who do the Duchy of Cornwall answer to and what recourse do my constituent now have in this case ? if the hon . member write to I with his constituency case , I will make sure that the Duchy of Cornwall look at it in due course . Eastbourne be benefit from some coastal defence scheme funding , the flood defence grant - in - aid , but it leave heritage asset behind . only resident and business currently qualify , which be leave Eastbourne ' s historic bandstand at risk of severe flooding . will the Minister meet I and colleague across the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to review the loophole that leave our bandstand behind ? I recognise the problem . the decision be to use the budget available to protect people ' s home and that have leave other building at comparable risk . the relevant DEFRA Minister be work with DCMS on this issue . I will ensure that a conversation can take place . on the infected blood compensation scheme in Northern Ireland , as of 21 February , 149 people have start the process , with 38 offer make total some £ 48 million . what assessment have be make of the time take from when an application be make to when a payment actually arrive through the door ? the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be operationally independent , but I be accountable to this House . it be important that I have regular conversation and provide challenge on the kind of timescale the hon . Gentleman be talk about . the infected blood scandal predate modern - day devolution and he can rest assure that all four corner of the United Kingdom be at the forefront of my mind in respect of the speed of delivery . the Minister be early ask about the ever - grow size of the civil service and the Cabinet Office under this Government and whether we would see those number come down , not go up , next year . instead of answer the question about the future , they talk about the past . let I ask the question again , but from a different angle : when be this Government go to take ownership of the fact that they be in government now , and these be their problem that they need to resolve ? I be very happy to take ownership of the fact that we be in government , and very happy to confirm that the Conservatives be in opposition . allege Spying case : Role of Attorney General ' s Office ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Solicitor General if she will make a statement about the role of the Attorney General ' s Office in the decision to drop the China spy prosecution . I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this urgent question , follow the deeply disappointing collapse of the prosecution case concern two individual charge under the Official Secrets Act 1911 . it be a bedrock constitutional principle that prosecution in this country be free from political influence . this mean that it be prosecutor , not politician , who decide which case to prosecute ; it be prosecutor , not politician , who decide what evidence will be use at criminal trial ; and it be prosecutor , not politician , who decide when case should be drop . although individual decision be make independently and protect from political influence , the Crown Prosecution Service as an organisation be superintend by the Attorney General by virtue of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985 . the detail of what that mean in practice be set out in the framework agreement between the Law Officers and the Director of Public Prosecutions , sign by the then Attorney General under the previous Government . the framework make it plain that the role of the CPS be to take independent decision on individual case refer to it by the police and other criminal investigation authority base on the evidence available and the public interest in pursue a prosecution , which accord with the code for Crown prosecutor . there be a limited number of offence , include those under the Official Secrets Act , for which Parliament have make statutory provision require the Attorney General ' s consent to prosecute in individual case . in do so , the Law Officer act in a quasi - judicial capacity independently of Government and apply the same two - stage test as the code . Consent be give by my predecessor on 3 April 2024 . follow that date , no Law Officer intervene in the case at any stage ; it would have be wholly inappropriate for they to do so . once consent be give , the Law Officer play no ongoing role . if the prosecutor contemplate drop the case because of evidential reason , they be require to inform the Attorney General of the decision as soon as it have be take . that be what happen in this case . the DPP and senior Treasury counsel have already confirm that the decision to offer no evidence in this case be make without any political influence , and the Cabinet Secretary , Director of Public Prosecutions , Attorney General and Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister will all give write and oral evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy this and next week . the ongoing disinformation around the collapse of this case be now distract from the most important issue that we should all be focus on , which be how the Government can work across party and with the UK law enforcement community to ensure that chinese espionage and interference be not successful in the UK . let I cut to the chase . it be standard practice for the CPS to inform the Attorney General if a case of political significance that have require Attorney General consent in the first place be likely to be drop . we be tell that the Attorney General be inform that this case be at risk but have not formally be end in August . be this correct ? can the Solicitor General provide the exact date of that meeting ? it would have be the Attorney General ' s duty to ask why the case be at risk . that do not mean seek to change the independent judgment of the CPS on whether to proceed , but it could and should have mean ask and ensure that more evidence be provide to the CPS at its request . it be abundantly clear that the CPS be ask for further evidence on the question of whether China pose a current threat to national security , so the Attorney General and the Government have a decision to make : whether to provide the evidence or not , even if they think that it be excessive to do so . the Attorney General must have understand what be require . we be tell that he be an eminent lawyer , so what do he do the moment he know ? who do he inform within Government , and when ? do he inform the Prime Minister or his office ? do he take any step to ensure that the evidence be provide ? we know that on 1 September the director general of the AG ' s Office attend a meeting at which the case be discuss . at that point , the case could still have be salvage . at that meeting , do the Attorney General ' s office push for further evidence to be provide ? follow that meeting , the Sunday Times have report that the Attorney General ' s Office be ask to speak to the CPS . can the SG confirm whether anyone from the AGO speak directly or indirectly to the CPS ? the AG know that the case be go to collapse in August . he know what be require to save it , but — unless the Solicitor General can provide a compelling account today — we must all conclude that the AG , on behalf of the Government , choose not to provide it . he may not have kill the case , but he allow it to die . there be example in the recent past of ag have the candour to come to the House and explain that the Government and the prosecute authority have choose to drop case that raise the high national security question for diplomatic reason . will the SG today have the candour to do exactly the same with this case ? today we have hear from the shadow Justice Secretary yet more of the baseless smear that have characterise the conservative party ' s approach to a matter of such importance to this House and the whole nation . he know that the Attorney General will give evidence next week — as soon as Tuesday — to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . like I , the shadow Justice Secretary train and practise in law , so he should know the importance of consistency when put a case together . yet his word today have bring only more confusion to the Conservatives ' chaotic approach . first , they accuse the Government of political interference in this case without evidence . when that be disproven , they argue that we do not interfere but should have interfere in an independent prosecution — so which be it ? their approach have serve only to distract from their own failing , and frankly do a disservice to the history and heritage of their party . I respectfully remind the House that part of the reason we find ourselves in this situation be because the Conservatives spend their year in government fight among themselves and not fix glare hole in our national security law . the charge in this case be bring under the Official Secrets Act — you be suppose to be a Law Officer — answer the question . order . Mr Jenrick , when you get a uq , you get your time , and I want you to be hear in silence , quite rightly , because this be an important issue that affect this House — but I do not need barrack from the Opposition Benches . I want you to help I . if you wish to catch my eye in the future , this be not the good way to do so . the charge in this case be bring under the Official Secrets Act 1911 — outdated legislation , draw up even before the dawn of world war one . as I say , the Attorney General , the Chief Secretary to the Prime Minister , the deputy National Security Adviser , the Cabinet Secretary and the Director of Public Prosecutions will all appear before the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy next week , and the Government have commit to fully engage with Committees across both Houses as this issue be rightly scrutinise . along with proper parliamentary scrutiny , another core tenet of our democracy be a prosecution service free of political interference . that be something that we on this side of the House will always defend . give that the Conservatives , during their 14 year of chaotic power , seek to develop an even close relationship with China , can I urge the Government to continue labour ' s approach , which be to look at opportunity to work together while not compromise our value and national interest at any time ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s position . I remind the House that the test in this case apply to how China be view under the previous Government , not this one . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . throughout these revelation , Ministers and the Prime Minister ' s spokesperson have repeatedly claim that the Government have no sight of the witness statement and no input . the pm himself say that at Prime Minister ' s question last week . but the Government Legal Service ' s own guidance require the Attorney General to be consult on the most sensitive legal case involve the Government . in a case as high profile as this , where the very integrity of Parliament and our national security be at stake , do the Attorney General — the Government ' s top legal adviser — really not review the witness statement before they be submit on behalf of the Government ? if not , please could the Solicitor General tell we why not ? give the very serious national security implication , will the SG commit to a statutory independent inquiry into why the case collapse , and will she please update the House as to when the Government will share the full China audit with the Intelligence and Security Committee ? as I set out in my answer to the urgent question , the previous Law officer give consent to prosecute in April 2024 . after that happen , it be right that there be no further involvement of Law officer in case . in accordance with the framework , that be how thing work . it be right that politician do not interfere with prosecution in criminal case , and that be what happen in this case once consent to prosecute be grant . may I just start by say that nobody in this House be dispute the independence of the prosecution or indeed the judicial officer ? nobody have have any dispute on that point at all . the question be a different one . it be whether an official who be give evidence not on his behalf , but on behalf of the Government , should have have any communication with his own Government after the prosecutor say that the evidence be not sufficient . one argument be that if the Government be not supply enough evidence , surely they should supply a little bit more . but the argument that the Government be use be that the official give evidence on the basis of the previous Government ' s view between 2021 and 2023 . well , that be a little odd , because the Labour party manifesto be not write until 2024 , and yet he quote it in his evidence . there be an incoherence here : either he be give evidence on the basis of the previous Government ' s view between 2021 and 2023 , in which case the Labour party manifesto be irrelevant , or he be reflect the view of the Government post 2024 , in which case the quotation of the Labour party manifesto be relevant . which be it ? in term of the witness statement , to start with the first and by far most substantive witness statement be the one make under the previous Government . in relation to more recent statement , the Conservatives ' starting argument be that the Government in some way interfere with the evidence , and now they seem to be criticise the fact that we do not interfere with the evidence . it be right that the deputy National Security Adviser give that evidence free from any political interference , as have be confirm numerous time in this House already . my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) be quite right . throughout the whole saga , as my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) make clear , there have be conflict story about who do what , and why it could or could not be do , all in the same breath . but we know the rule require that the Attorney General be consult on matter that be politically sensitive . it do not cut across his independence ; it simply mean that he or she have to be inform at the time . we understand from the Director of Public Prosecutions that the Attorney General must have be tell that there be insufficient evidence to prosecute . if so , the Attorney General ' s role in this matter — independently — be to say to the authority in the Government , " you be not provide sufficient evidence . this prosecution will collapse unless you do . " do the Attorney General say to the Government , " you be not provide enough evidence to secure a prosecution . it be over to you to do as you have be ask by the DPP " ? the Attorney General will be give his evidence to the Committee next week . I think it be right to say that the case be drop by the CPS not on public interest ground but on evidential ground . when a case be drop on evidential ground , the framework set out that the Law officer be inform when that have happen , and not that there be consultation beforehand . this be a case that do not continue on evidential ground . give the important national security implication of this whole sorry case , what assessment have the Attorney General ' s Office make of the impact that the decision may have on confidence in our ability to prosecute alleged foreign interference ? this case be prosecute under legislation that be in force when the alleged offence be commit in 2021 to 2023 . the law have now change — it take the conservative party many year to tighten up national security legislation ; it pass with support from Labour Members — and under the legislation as it stand now , it be easy to bring prosecution of this nature because the enemy test no long have to be satisfied . the Attorney General have a duty to superintend prosecution agency . the Government have previously define superintendence as , inter alia , " a right for the Attorney General to be consult and inform about difficult , sensitive and high - profile case " , of which this be clearly one . give that the Attorney General be responsible by statute for the superintendence of the Crown Prosecution Service and overall super - intendency of the DPP , and additionally have the requirement for consent to prosecute certain category of criminal offence such as those relate to official secret , what action do the Attorney General take once he have be inform of the potential collapse of the China spy trial ? as I have set out , consent to prosecute in this case have to be grant by Law Officers , and that be do under the previous Government . once consent be grant , it be for the CPS to prosecute a case , rightly without political interference . this case be discontinue by the CPS on evidential ground , as oppose to public interest ground . I be sure that the hon . Member be aware of the two - part test for prosecutor . when a case be discontinue on evidential ground , it be not for the CPS to consult with Law officer in advance of that . I say again that the Attorney General will first give write evidence this week and then oral evidence on Tuesday . none of it make sense — not the collapse trial , Chagos or the embassy — but , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say , it all make sense if the Government have prioritise a strategic relationship with communist China , do it not ? I politely remind the right hon . Gentleman that this case be to be try under the Government ' s position in relation to China between 2021 and 2023 , when his party be in Government . the Solicitor General have repeatedly say that prosecutor and not politician should decide whether to prosecute . of course that be the case , but that be a straw man argument . the issue here be not political interference in the decision to prosecute , but political interference in the evidence that be give to the CPS , affect its ability to prosecute . we have be tell that the Attorney General be inform . why be he inform , if not to allow he to take action to perfect the evidence ? why do he not ? the Prime Minister and the DPP have both confirm that there be no political interference in the evidence give by the deputy National Security Adviser , and rightly so . the conservative party can not have it both way : first , the argument be that we interfere with the evidence and now it seem to be that we do not . which be it ? the Sunday Times report that , follow a key meeting on 1 September , the Attorney General ' s Office be ask to speak to the CPS . do anyone from the Attorney General ' s Office speak directly or indirectly to the CPS after that meeting ? there be a meeting on 1 September in relation to this matter , which , as I understand it , take place on the basis that the prosecution would go ahead . it be to discuss bilateral relation with China in the context of the ongoing legal case . the Director of Public Prosecutions have say that the case be drop because effort over many month to get evidence that China represent a threat to national security be not forthcoming from this Government . when be the Attorney General inform that the case be at risk and what do he do ? in order for this case to succeed , it be base on the relationship with China at the time of the offence and how China be view then . I have already refer to the meeting on 1 September , which be on the presumption that the case would continue . the Attorney General will set out his evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy next week . I previously ask the Security Minister about the lack of inclusion of China on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . what input or advice have the Attorney General or the Solicitor General give to the Government on that ? give the ongoing situation , will she now reconsider and push for the Government to do that ? under the law as it now stand , it would be easy to bring prosecution in case such as these . we be deeply disappointed that this prosecution do not go ahead , but I will get back to he on the specific point that he raise . the Solicitor General have express several time she and , presumably , the Government ' s disappointment at the fact that this do not go to trial . that disappointment would suggest that she and the Government wish for an alternative outcome . the simple point that I and my constituent can not get our head around — they have contact I about this because they be outraged and concerned — be that if the Government wish for an alternative outcome , why do they not exhaust every single possibility to bolster the case of the CPS ? regardless of interference , and there be no question of political interference , why do they not exhaust every single opportunity to put the CPS in the strong possible position to ensure a successful prosecution ? the Government be disappoint that this prosecution do not go ahead . if the previous Conservative Government have tighten our law in relation to national security before 2022 , we may not have find ourselves in this position . it be absolutely right that there be no political interference with the witness evidence . it be an important part of our constitution that criminal prosecution be do without political interference . when be the Attorney General inform that the case be go to collapse ? the Attorney General will be set out his evidence to the Joint Committee next Tuesday . to be perfectly honest , I do not know what the point be in I ask this question , because we have have two week of statement and urgent question , and Ministers keep attack straw man and answer question that be not actually be ask . it be pathetic . on Monday , the Security Minister come to the House and be ask several time when the Home Secretary know that the case be go to collapse and what representation she make to ensure that the case be as strong as possible . he do not answer that several time . when do the Home Secretary know ? what representation do she make and to whom do she make they ? surely among they be the National Security Adviser , the Prime Minister and the Attorney General . I do not speak on behalf of the Home Secretary , but I be sure that she will be happy to address the hon . member ' s point . I welcome the Solicitor General to her new role and wish she every success and happiness in it — hopefully it will not be as hard the next time round . as the chinese spy prosecution case roll on and on , concern on the ground be grow about the state of national security and our intelligence community . do she accept the lack of confidence that have arise from the handling of this case ? what can be do to assure british citizen that their interest and security be the top priority for this government , not trade link with China ? I thank the hon . member for those kind word . this case be bring under the Official Secrets Act . there be now new legislation in place , which mean it be no long necessary to prove the enemy part of the test in order to bring a successful prosecution . that will make it easy to bring prosecution of this nature in future . it be regretful that the previous Government do not bring in this legislation soon . have they do so , I expect we would not have find ourselves in the situation we be in today . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . may I ask your advice ? unusually , the Attorney General do not sit in the House of Commons . when I submit write parliamentary question to the Attorney General , they be answer by the Solicitor General , but the Solicitor General refuse to provide answer for the Attorney General , only answer for herself . today , understandably , the Attorney General could not come to the House because he be not a Member of the House , but the Solicitor General repeatedly refuse to give answer on behalf of the Attorney General . she refer to the Attorney General ' s write answer and to a Select Committee hearing which be ordinarily hold in private . how do the House of Commons hold the Attorney General to account ? there be a collective responsibility for the Government to answer within this House — the right hon . member be absolutely right to ask the question — but I be not responsible for the answer that the Solicitor General provide . this go back to the frustration under the previous Administration , when the Foreign Secretary sit in the Lords . my view be that it be much hard , but there be a collective responsibility that question will be answer in this House . I be not go to keep the debate go now . fishing and Coastal Growth Fund ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if she will make a statement on the fishing and coastal growth fund . we be work closely with our fishing and seafood sector to ensure that they be vibrant , profitable and sustainable , and that we have a healthy and productive marine environment . that be why , on 19 May , the Government announce the fishing and coastal growth fund , a £ 360 million investment that will support the next generation of fisher and breathe new life into our coastal community . through the fund , we have recognise the vital contribution that fishing and coastal community make to our economy , local community and national heritage . design the fund with stakeholder be paramount to its success , and we want to work with industry and community to get their view on how to maximise value and target investment for maximum local impact . that engagement be just begin . we will consider investment in new tech and equipment to modernise the fleet ; in training and skill to back the next generation ; and in promote and support the seafood sector , so that it can export across the world . since the fund be announce , a wide range of stakeholder have call on the Government to learn from previous fishery fund scheme and to devolve the funding , instead of the funding be at UK - level . that be why , on 20 October , the Government , in a reaffirmation of our commitment to devolution , confirm that the fishing and coastal growth fund would be devolve , and that devolve government would have full discretion over how to allocate funding . that approach enable each devolve Government to design and deliver support in response to the specific need of their fishing and coastal community . that will ensure that investment be target towards regional need and national view , and that it well support coastal town and village . it ensure that decision be take close to the community that the devolve government serve , so the sector can thrive for generation to come . although the government respect the devolution settlement , I would like to encourage collaboration across all government to maximise the fund ' s impact , as each Government will have their own insight into how the funding can be use , and will learn lesson over the fund ' s lifetime . I thank the Minister for her response . I would be fail in my duty to my constituent , and indeed to people across Scotland , if I do not reflect the anger , dismay and sense of betrayal that have greet this set of fund allocation . on 5 March , ahead of the much - vaunted EU reset deal with the UK , the Prime Minister tell I the following from the Dispatch Box : " I recognise the huge and historic importance of the fishing industry in his constituency , and other , and I be determined to make the sector more secure , sustainable and economically successful . " — [ Official Report , 5 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 280 . ] but we be once again use as a bargaining chip when EU access to scottish water be extend for another 12 year — way beyond what the EU negotiating team have hope for . Boris Johnson use those in the fishing industry as poster boy for his reckless Brexit campaign and then betray they afterwards , and now this Government have do exactly the same by reserve more than £ 300 million for english coastal community over the next 12 year , while hand we pocket money . despite Scotland represent 60 % of our fishing capacity , despite it land almost 50 % of these island ' catch , and despite more than 75 % of all specie catch have be land by scottish vessel , we have be offer a mere 7 . 78 % of the fund . my urgent question have be co - sign by colleague from across the House who represent coastal community across Scotland , include those in Orkney and Shetland , the Outer Hebrides , and Wales . my Welsh colleague be equally dismay at the crumb they have be offer . I recognise that the Minister and her team may need time to get to grip with their brief , but her predecessor say he intend to engage fully with devolved government , and the Scottish Government have be ignore again . I urge the Minister to look at this decision . there be time before next March to take a fresh look at these allocation , and to recognise the crucial role that the fishing industry play in our beautiful coastal community , around our massive coastline , and in our island community across Scotland . if the Minister be in any doubt about the strength of anger on this matter and about why it be so crucial , I repeat the offer I make to she yesterday to come to my constituency and see for herself . I have be look at the history of seafood support fund . the last one be a UK seafood fund , which be reserve by the then Government nationally , to be use in a strategic way . there be many vocal complaint that the fund should have be devolve . we have now devolve a fund in the way in which fund be always devolve : use the Barnett formula , which give a 20 % - a - head uplift to devolve government for all other spending . I also note that the devolution settlement in the comprehensive spending review 2025 give the Scottish Government another £ 8 . 5 billion that they can choose to spend in any way . it be always open to they to support the sector , which be an important industrial sector for they , with some of the money devolve to they in the CSR devolution settlement . I thank the Minister for come to the Dispatch Box , and the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) for raise this important issue . there be a question of fairness in the geographical distribution of the fund , and the Minister should consider that ; I hope the funding will be review in due course . there be another aspect to fairness , too : there should be fairness across the sector . I want the funding to be aim at new entrant to fishing community that face big challenge to do with depopulation , crew and keep themselves go . for example , the funding can be use to allocate and buy quota , so that local authority can distribute it to new entrant , as happen to a limited degree in Orkney and in the Western Isles . I also want the funding to be aim at new opportunity . this summer , an 800 lb tuna be land in my constituency from the North Atlantic , and it be to be sell at a famous market in Tokyo . those be the kind of scheme , place , and fishing and coastal community that the fund should be aim at ; we should not just funnel the money to the already wealthy quota baron who dominate the industry and the airwave . my hon . friend have make some interesting observation about creativity , which may well be apply to the fund . we be try to co - design the way the fund will work — it be there for the next 12 year — so that we can be creative and think about how we support the young generation of people who wish to go into the industry . some of the suggestion that he have make be intriguing , and I will certainly follow they up with he and other . I call the shadow Minister . this fund be a weak apology from a Labour Government who , this year , have sell out the UK fishing industry . it be a mere stick plaster — a rush one , at good — that ignore the proportion of fish catch in different part of these isle , involve the devolved Administrations poorly , and ignore evidence - base delivery and logic . this fund be labour try to buy off the UK fishing fleet , due to its disastrous 12 - year deal with the EU ; the deal be three time long than the deal Labour seek . it prevent Britain from set annual fishing quota , as other independent coastal state do . fishing organisation have call the deal a " horror show " for fisherman . will the money be front - loaded and spend where it will have the great benefit for industry and coastal community ? what input will fishing organisation and representative have in ensure that the fund be spend in the right place ? fishing be not just about the fish catch ; it be also about the people and marine wildlife involve . can the Government explain how the fund will support fisher ' mental health and effort to protect marine wildlife , such as by end bycatch ? there be not enough detail for the industry to plan . how will the fund be deliver , how be it be target to support the fishing industry , and how be the Labour Government support the next generation of fisherman and woman with the fund ? this fund be an example of the Labour Government try to buy off the industry with a stick plaster , rather than ensure that the good deal for the british fishing industry be the one that they negotiate with the EU . the fund be about long - term transformation and partnership . we want to modernise the fishing sector , support coastal regeneration and build resilience in the industry across the UK . for that reason , we will co - design the fund with local community and the industry . I be not able to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question in detail at this precise moment , because we seek to co - operate with those who will be beneficiary . when I be in a position to make further announcement , I certainly will . as a coastal MP , I be delighted that my constituency be select for £ 20 million of pride in place funding . how will those fund benefit coastal community around the country ? pride in place funding be a new initiative from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . colleague will know that it be base very much on a bottom - up approach to improve place . my understanding be that allocation will be give and direct by local board with community membership . that be an important way of do regeneration . it be not do thing to people from on high ; it mean try to involve and listen to those who live in those place , who know what be good . I hope that we will be able to apply that principle to the use of these fund over time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats of course welcome any further investment in our fishing community , but coastal town must have a proper say in how the money will be spend . the allocation of the funding must reflect the significance of the fishing industry across our isle . the proud fisherman in my North Cornwall constituency have be wrap up in so much red tape , and face extra cost because of the Tories ' botch Brexit deal . they now want proper management of fish stock , and a new byelaw to limit large vessel inside the six - mile line . what step be the Government take to reverse that damage and provide our fisherman with great access to their large and close market ? how will the Government use this fund to give great power and resource to coastal community , to allow they to invest properly in their local area ? finally , can the Minister assure we that the fund will improve water quality , to protect our fishing industry in the future ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s last point , clearly improve water quality be another policy area . the coastal growth fund be not about improve water quality ; it be about build resilience , help to modernise the fishing industry through high tech , access to training and entry to the industry . we must not mix up Government support for different issue , and try to shove everything into one policy . the hon . Gentleman also ask about the reset for export purpose . if we can do it properly , the reset with the EU will enable the export of fish and catch with much less red tape than we have end up with , post Brexit . there be big gain to be make from that . likewise , if we can get the free trade agreement to work properly , it will increase the prospect of fishing industry export to other part of the world . scottish salmon be renowned around the world for its quality and taste . how be the Government support the promotion of the scottish salmon industry around the world ? my hon . friend be correct . I believe that the free trade deal with India take away all tariff on scottish salmon , so hopefully there will be a lot more of it head that way soon . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I welcome the Minister to her new position . I have to say , though , if ever there be an illustration of the scale of the challenge face Ministers in turn around the Department , this be it . let we not forget that this fund be create because the Prime Minister roll over for a further 12 year the catastrophically bad deal that Boris Johnson give we for five year . if the Minister be sincere when she say that the aim of the Government be to maximise local investment , then use the Barnett formula to distribute the funding be ocean - go madness . by volume and value , shetland alone account for 9 % of the fish land in this country , but Scotland as a whole will get only 8 % of the funding . when will the funding formula be review , and when will we hear exactly where the money will be spend and what it will be available for ? the right hon . Gentleman will have to ask the Scottish Government about what they be go to do with their devolved part of the fund . he might also wish to ask they whether there be any extra money available from the devolve comprehensive spending review process , because they get an extra £ 8 . 5 billion to spend this year . I warmly welcome the Government ' s investment in a sustainable fishing and shellfish industry , which will create job and drive growth in coastal community such as mine . will the Minister provide a timeline for when stakeholder , such as the Whitby & District Fishing Industry Training School and the Whitby lobster hatchery , will be formally engage in the process of develop and deliver this important fund ? as I have say , we be at an early stage in the process of see how we can do this . we be committed to try to co - design the fund , so I be happy to talk to my hon . friend about how she wish that co - operation to be take forward in the fantastic area of Scarborough — it be near Bridlington , where I be bear , which also have a little to do with crab . I call the Father of the House . in Lincolnshire we know all about fishing , because Grimsby use to be the world ' s great fishing port . it beggar belief that we , a coastal nation , import twice as much fish as we export . fisherman feel completely betray after year of vassalage to the European Union and this late deal . we be where we be — we have this fund now — so I want to end on a positive note by ask my favourite Minister : will she ensure that she use the fund to recreate fishing in area such as Grimsby , which now have a miniscule amount of fishing , to help they to modernise , get more staff and rebuild our industry ? the Father of the House know that flattery will get he everywhere — obviously , I hold he in equally high esteem . along with my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , I be more than happy to work out how we can use this fund to do precisely as he suggest . I welcome this fund . the cornish fishing fleet , which have suffer , have put together a join - up proposal for our part of the fund , so I would be grateful if the Minister could look at that . the proposal talk about front - load the investment , multi - year project funding , science and research , and data collection about the number of fish that we catch and the way we catch they , and it particularly focus on career , skill and infrastructure . there be an announcement this week about an environmental lead regulator go into the development at Falmouth port , which will make a massive difference and speed up port infrastructure redevelopment . I urge the Minister , and the Government as a whole , to look at do more of that , to look at local seafood production and to encourage people to eat local . it be rather odd that in this country we have to export more of what we catch because we eat what be catch elsewhere . expand the UK population ' s view of what they can eat from the catch might make it easy to revive our fishing industry . I will be see a group of Cornish Members next week to talk about some of their detailed suggestion about the fund , and I be interested in all creative idea . this fund be set up to act as a sweetener to our fishing community after they be completely sell out in the Government ' s EU - Brexit reset . in that negotiation , 12 year of access to our sea be give away . Scotland land three - quarter of the tonnage of fish in the UK and 60 % of the value of UK fishing come into Scotland . however , of this £ 360 million fund , scottish fisherman will get only £ 28 million — 7 . 7 % of the fund . do it really make sense to the Minister that Scotland get 8 % of the fund , when scottish fisherman bring in so much of the value of fishing ? if it do not make sense , what be she go to do about it ? as I have mention , a predecessor fund — the UK seafood fund — be complain about massively because it be ringfence and hold at UK level . there be demand for it to be devolve , so we have devolve it and use the Barnett formula , and that be the way the allocation work . the Scottish Government can always spend some of their extra uplift — the large uplift of a scottish devolution settlement since devolution begin — on support the fishing industry , should they so wish . Brixham have the high - value catch in England , yet it be in Torbay , which be the most deprived local authority in the south - west of England . how will local level of deprivation colour the allocation of funding for England ? part of the fund and its use be certainly about try to create a more vibrant and modern fishing industry that be resilient , and part of that must be social resilience . I look forward to any of the view of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent on how the fund could well be use , but we must remember that it be fishing - relate , not general ; it be there to modernise and make more resilient the UK ' s fishing industry . when the fishing and coastal growth fund be announce , the Government say that they have also secure a new sanitary and phytosanitary agreement to slash red tape for UK seafood exporter and business . can the Minister tell the fishing fleet in King ' s Lynn , Brancaster and around the Norfolk coast when that deal will actually be implement ? we be await the EU mandate , which the Commission tell we will be available by the end of November . we be very anxious to then get on to do the SPS deal as quickly as possible , so that we can tear away all the red tape cause by Brexit . that have cause so much damage and make it so hard for the UK fishing industry to trade with our close neighbour . some 90 % of our fishing fleet in Wales be small , under - 10 metre boat . the Seafish " Economics of the UK Fishing Fleet " report for the last year find that while Scotland and England see strong fishing income growth , profit in Wales fall by nearly 10 % , despite more active day at sea . do the Minister agree that funding base on what the sector and the fishing community need in Wales would be far more fair and effective than the outdated Barnett formula ? it be important that we try to support all our fishing industry around the UK . the idea of devolve the fund be to allow the devolved Administrations to do that in their particular area , because they have more information and view on how good to support . some £ 18 million of extra support in the fund go directly to Wales , which can be use and decide upon by the Senedd to support its local industry . the East Neuk fishing fleet in my constituency may not be deliver what Shetland do in term of tonnage , but it be critical , and it face challenge around spatial mass and recruitment . I associate myself with the remark of my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) in relation to how the fund will be distribute . may I query the Minister in relation to the 12 - year span of the plan ? obviously it be link to the EU agreement , but what guarantee can the Minister actually give we that the fund will last for those 12 year ? otherwise , what be propose become meagre . no Parliament can bind its successor , but it be not usual for fund announce in this way to be suddenly end at the beginning of the next Parliament . we certainly want to ensure that we put in place plan that be so useful and effective that no subsequent Government would even think of cut the fund . it would be half . I thank the Minister very much for her answer to all our inquiry . I absolutely welcome the fund and thank she for the goal that match the funding . however , with the Northern Ireland funding allocation for fisherman be base on the Barnett consequential , I do not feel that the £ 10 million designate for Northern Ireland be enough for the goal of investment in technology and equipment for a new generation of fisherman as well as the necessary harbour update . a real concern I have be that these money may not be ringfence to ensure that they be not fritter away on the goal and aspiration of devolved Ministers , rather than go directly to the fleet . what guideline be in place to safeguard the use of this fund and to ensure that every penny rebuild our fishing fleet , such as those in Portavogie , Ardglass and Kilkeel ? clearly , the way that devolution work be that the Government in Westminster , once we have distribute fund via the Barnett formula , can not ringfence they in any of the devolved administration . that would be a ridiculous misinterpretation of what devolution mean , and I be sure that those devolve administration would be the first to complain if we try . the hon . member — I thank he for his welcome to I — need to talk to the Northern Ireland Assembly about what it be go to do . we want the fund to be use for the purpose for which it be create , but by definition the devolution settlement take the ringfence off , so he must have his argument with the Assembly . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) for secure this urgent question . the aggregated coastline of my constituency be great than that of France , so the fishing industry play a crucial part in its economic wellbeing . have barely survive the disaster of Brexit , this late decision by the UK Government be another kick in the tooth to those fishing community . we be all agree that this formula be fundamentally unfair , so do the Secretary of State for Scotland come to the Minister ' s Department at any point and specifically urge she to reverse this decision — yes or no ? follow Brexit — since leave the EU under the trade and co - operation agreement — the UK receive an uplift in its fishing quota . some 65 % of that uplift go to Scotland . that be worth £ 107 million on 2024 figure , so I think Scotland get a reasonable deal . remember that the uplift in the quota , which create real income , be lock in go forward . this be a very important and well attend urgent question , and I thank the Minister for come to the Chamber to answer it . one of the argument make to I for not grant it be that " there will be a Westminster Hall debate next Wednesday , though on an unrelated subject : ban plastic wipe " — I know that argument be not from the Minister , who I again thank . I think we can see that the urgent question be very important . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 27 October will include : Monday 27 October — remain stage of the Victims and Courts Bill . Tuesday 28 October — opposition day on a motion in the name of the official Opposition — subject to be announce . Wednesday 29 October — remain stage of the Sentencing Bill . Thursday 30 October — general debate on property service charge , follow by a general debate on the age community and end - of - life care . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 31 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 3 November include : Monday 3 November — second reading of the Public Office ( accountability ) bill . in addition to the tribute that be pay early this week , I believe I will be speak for all member in mourn the death on Monday of our former colleague Oliver Colvile . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Oliver enter the House with I in that glorious parliamentary generation of 2010 . he be nationally famous for take a wicket in India on live television for the Lords and Commons cricket team , and for his memorable call in 2015 for hedgehog to become a national emblem of the UK . as he point out in this Chamber , " hedgehog be prickly in character , have a voracious appetite and a passion for garden , and have a noisy sex life . " — [ Official Report , 10 November 2015 ; Vol . 602 , c . 351 . ] he say that he leave it to the Deputy Speaker to decide which of those trait he himself possess . the Leader of the House have rightly put some distance between himself and his predecessor in elect not to engage in political knockabout , and I be four - square behind he on that . in that spirit , I will content myself by simply note some of the news this week . the UK have just record net borrowing of more than £ 20 billion in September , the high of any month since 2021 . the Crown Prosecution Service have be force to abandon the most consequential trial of chinese spy for many year . four people have resign from the grooming gang inquiry panel and the lead candidate to be chair have withdraw . newspaper have be brief by no . 10 that the new Cabinet Secretary will be remove in the new year , after barely 15 month in his post . a person deport under the Government ' s one in , one out programme have immediately return by dinghy , reportedly cite his terror at be in France . the Leader of the House may or may not wish to comment on those issue , but there be two specific item affect many member of this House that I bring to his attention . the first be the imminent closure of the fruit and vegetable aid scheme . as he will be aware , the UK fresh produce sector be worth more than £ 3 billion and be a significant part of the UK farm economy . there have be a plan in place for some time to grow that sector rapidly over the next three year through public and private investment in equipment , technology and infrastructure , but the current scheme close at the end of this year without any movement to date on this crucial issue from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . will the Leader of the House therefore ask the Secretary of State to pick up this issue as soon as possible , push ahead with the plan and make a statement to the House , so as to avoid risk to the horticulture sector , local food production , job and national food security ? the second issue relate to the Government ' s new local government fair funding review . as the House will know , this be a fraught area of concern for Members across the House , and I declare a particular interest , since it appear likely that Herefordshire council — my own county — will face a funding gap next year of around £ 27 million , or 11 % of its net budget . that be a gigantic sum , which come on top of the withdrawal of the rural service delivery grant , which support so many local service . it be entirely unclear what the rationale for such a cut could be , especially for what be a relatively poor and sparsely populated part of the country . I also note , and bring to the attention of colleague across the House , that the new formula will create serious problem for many local authority up and down this country , include London borough . the need for reform be clear , but the Government be still consult barely six month before the new formula be due to be roll out . Haste be the last thing anyone need in an area of this complexity and delicacy . may I impress on the Leader of the House the need for care and deliberation from the Government in how this consultation be carry out and then implement ? will he in turn express this concern to ministerial colleague and give proper time for these issue to be debate at the length they deserve in this Chamber ? I be pleased to see the shadow Leader of the House back in his place this week . I just inform he , if he do not already know , that last week we discover in his absence that he have a highly capable deputy in the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , who may or may not be join we in deliberation later . I join the shadow Leader of the House in pay tribute to Oliver Colvile , who the House will remember fondly as the MP for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport from 2010 to 2017 . our thought be with his family . apart from his other achievement , not least in seek to save hedgehog , my understanding be that he never break his party ' s Whip and therefore would have be a Chief Whip ' s dream , I can assure the House . we also remember this week that it be 59 year since the Aberfan disaster , when 144 people lose their life , include 116 child . we must never forget . today also mark the launch of the Royal British Legion poppy appeal . we remember those who serve and give their life in the service of our country , include those who be member of this House . I also pay tribute on a personal level and give my thank to Kate Wilson , who be leave the Cabinet Office this week . her career have span three decade , and she support successive government ' work in Parliament on behalf of the office of the Leader of the House of Commons and the Government Chief Whip ' s office , and I hope the whole House will join I in wish Kate the good in her future endeavour . I also join with you , Mr Speaker , in wish England all the very good in their rugby league match on Saturday against Australia . we wish England well . I turn to the shadow Leader of the House ' s point . first of all , it be true that we need to get the balance right in these question between serious matter and , from time to time , knockabout . I have speak to he privately about this , and I be commit to end some of the knockabout — but give the list that he present , he be tempt I . as some of the issue might come up in question later , the only thing I will say be on my starting point last week on question about the economy : any Conservative Member who ask a question on the economy should begin with an apology . on the substantive matter that the right hon . Gentleman raise — the food and vegetable aid scheme — he be a strong advocate for the industry and particularly for his beautiful county of Herefordshire , where I understand it have be a great year for apple , but not always for other veg and fruit . I will draw his remark to the attention of the DEFRA Minister , who I be sure will be happy to meet he if he seek a meeting , and who will also keep the House update on that matter . on local government funding , I will respond by say that the current system of local authority funding have leave some place behind — there be no doubt about that . it be not a fair system . the previous Government understand this very well in their fair funding review , but , as with many issue , they just do not deliver on it . we will make good on our commitment to introduce improvement to align funding with need , and that will be the first time that have happen since 2013 . we will also publish our response to the fair funding review 2 . 0 later this autumn , which will be follow by the publication of the provisional multi - year settlement . in the usual way , there will be plenty of time to debate that . last week , the Office for National Statistics publish its late report on drug - relate death in England and Wales . sadly , for the 12th consecutive year , drug - relate death have increase , with a harrowing 5 , 565 people lose their life to drug in the last year . a key finding of the report be that almost half the death be relate to opiate , and the number of death involve synthetic opioid call nitazene have increase fourfold . give the scale of the loss of life that we be see and the stark regional disparity in the figure , will the Leader of the House please arrange for a debate in Government time on measure to urgently address this crisis ? my hon . friend raise very important matter . as a former drug Minister , I know that there be a feeling across the House that we need to continue to bear down on the devastation that drug can bring to our local community . there be interest across the House , and I urge my hon . friend to ask for a debate , perhaps in Backbench Business time , so that colleague can share their concern . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . first , I associate myself with the comment make about Oliver Colvile ' s pass and the Aberfan disaster . I wonder if we can have a debate about rhetoric collide with reality . early this week , we have the Chancellor , after year of tell we that we can make Brexit work , finally concede that thing be not go so well on that front . in the same week , our resident patriot — people who be so passionate about Britain that they seek to import american politic to our shore — discover that their late pet project have hit the buffer as well . reform ' s department of government efficiency — or doge , as I hear teenage boy call it — have succeed only in cut the number of reform councillor in Kent from 57 to 50 . the late spate of loss have come after reform ' s Kent county council leader concede that there be not much waste to cut in local government and that it will probably have to put up council tax , just like everybody else . as much as I enjoy watch populist promise go pop , there be a serious point to be make about local government be on its knee . as real - term budget have be cut year after year , demand have continue to rise . more elderly people require social care , there be more child with special need , and more family be turn up at the council ' s front door after become homeless . for many local authority , the vast majority of their budget be now spend on service for these vulnerable people , leave little leave for the service that resident expect to see across their community . the Government ' s fair funding formula be suppose to fix all this , but in some place , include my London borough of Sutton , it seem like it be set to make thing bad . that be in no small part down to the fact that it utterly fail to take account of the real cost of housing , particularly in London and the south - east . can the Government give we assurance that they intend to fix the problem with their current proposal , that they be go to listen to the feedback from London Councils and the Local Government Association , and that they will come back with a funding formula that work for local authority ? I must say that a request from the Lib Dems to bridge the gap between rhetoric and reality show how far they have come . on Brexit , the cost of that decision be become clear , but I would point the hon . member to the fact that the Government be seek to achieve a well deal with the European Union , as we hear in response to the urgent question , not least for fishing community such as my own . on local authority spending , as I say to the shadow Leader of the House , the current system be break . the Government be commit to fix it , which the previous Government do not do . we do intend to make good on that commitment , and the hon . Member will have to wait and see what the outcome be . however , he be right that this be a concern not just for member on his side of the Chamber , but for those on the labour side , and the Government will bring forward our proposal in good time . our intention be to make thing well , and we will come back and explain in full how that be go to happen . I be incredibly proud that five of my constituent — Kelly Buxton , Maddie Buxton , Demi - Leigh Walsh , Ollie Taylor and , the young , nine - year - old Blake Webster , all from Evolution Martial Arts in Glossop — will be represent England at the kickboxe world championship in Niagara . will the Leader of the House not only join I in wish they every success , but provide Government time for a debate on ensure access to sporting opportunity for all young people ? I join my hon . friend in wish the very good of luck to all those involve in Evolution Martial Arts . I think that would make a good topic for a debate , perhaps in Westminster Hall , should he seek to apply for one . it would enable the Minister concern to talk about the Government ' s recent announcement of £ 400 million for future grassroots facility , which in no small part will ensure that facility be there to provide the opportunity from which his constituent be seek to benefit . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I add my tribute to the late Oliver Colvile . I first come across he in the final selection in Brent North , where he be up against Sajid Javid and Grant Shapps . he have to wait until 2010 to finally be elect . in the famous cricket match in India when the Lords and Commons take on an indian select eleven , I remember two moment . one be when he bowl — completely bowl — an indian state - sponsor cricketer . however , the more important one be when he bend down to pick up the ball when field on the boundary in front of the camera , and his trouser split to reveal his Union Jack underpant . I thank the Leader of the House for the convivial meeting we have on Monday about try to ensure that time for Backbench Business debate in the Chamber can be maximise . I gently ask that we get a notification if we be to get any time in the Chamber on 4 or 5 November or in the week after , which will facilitate debate . I come to the business in Westminster Hall . on Tuesday 28 October , there will be a debate on obesity and fatty liver disease . on Thursday 30 October , there will be a statement from the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee on its report on land value capture , which be of great importance across the country , follow by debate on histological testing of excise mole and on the Education Committee ' s report on child ' s social care . on Tuesday 4 November , there will be a debate on the impact of UK official development assistance cut on international development . on Tuesday 11 November , there will be a debate on support for dyslexic pupil at school . on Thursday 13 November , the first debate will be on modern - day slavery in Pakistan , and we will be offer another debate later . there be rule govern the use of firework . on Diwali , chinese new year and new year ' s eve , people be entitle to have display up until 1 am , and on Guy Fawkes day till midnight . at all other time , it be 11 pm . I be not sure what other colleague think , but the reality be that there be very unsociable people who release firework in the early hour of the morning , start in September and seemingly go on until the end of January . not only do they do that , but we have very expensive and very loud firework that frighten animal and disturb child ' s sleep . People who need their sleep before they go to work be also severely inconvenience . may we have a statement from a Minister on what action will be take to prevent that from happen and to ensure that enforcement action be take not only on hour , but to restrict the very powerful firework that cause such distress ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his work as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . we will endeavour to give as much notice as possible of upcoming Backbench Business day , but I take particular note of 5 November and I will get back to he as soon as possible . the Government ' s intention be to minimise the negative impact of firework . People do enjoy firework , but at the same time community can be plague by their misuse . we certainly support their considerate use , but we need to reduce the risk and disturbance to individual and , in particular , to animal . we have launch a firework safety campaign for this firework series , and current regulation control their sale , availability and use , include the maximum noise for consumer firework , but the Government will keep that under review . our Crime and Policing Bill , which be currently in the Lords , will give the police great power to get persistent antisocial offender off our street , whatever the time of year . rise — just to help the House , we be aim for a 12 . 30 finish . a good example of speed will be give by Dr Marie Tidball . last month , I hold a community event in Wharncliffe Side on build an NHS fit for the future . my constituent be pleased to hear about our Government ' s plan to bring healthcare close to our community . they want to see diagnostic and treatment centre , like those in the Glass Works in Barnsley , establish at the heart of Stocksbridge , our steel town . will the Leader of the House advise I on what I can do to secure a community health hub in stocksbridge in my constituency to enable preventive care to take place locally ? my hon . friend have be a fierce campaigner on healthcare issue and I pay tribute to she for that . as she point out , we be commit to a neighbourhood health service , ensure that more care be deliver in local community and open six day a week . I do not know the answer to her question about how she get a hub , but I will make sure that the appropriate Minister hear it and we will get back to she . Lancashire county council have start a consultation on the future of adult social care . critically , it include a consultation on the future of 10 critical care home across Lancashire . it say it have not make its mind up about the consultation , yet there be already a timeline for when those care home would be close down should the decision be make . they include : Milbanke in Kirkham , Thornton House just up the road , and Grove House in Adlington in the Chorley constituency . will the Leader of the House use his good office to ask the relevant Minister to organise a cross - party meeting between myself , the Labour mps affect and you , Mr Speaker , so we can hold this reform - lead county council to account for the decision it be make ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise this issue on behalf of his constituent , and it go much far afield than his constituency . we all know the concern about the possible closure of care home . I will therefore speak to the relevant Minister in the hope that we can get the meeting he request . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Wednesfield in Bloom for once again achieve gold in the Britain in Bloom award ? from Ashmore Park to the village , our high street , St Thomas ' s church , Guru Nanak gurdwara , the Hub at Ashmore Park , nursery , school , shop and business , will he thank the phenomenal volunteer and everyone involve for their bloom marvellous effort and success ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Wednesfield in Bloom and everyone involve in its success . it be a great example of the immense contribution that community group and volunteer make to our local community . as I usually say at this point , Mr Speaker , volunteer and community group be the golden thread that run through our community and hold they together , and I wish they well . a number of constituent have come to see I about adaptation make to their home under the ECO4 scheme , where an installer have receive a grant from the Government — from the taxpayer — to hopefully improve the energy efficiency of their home , but what the homeowner have actually experience be significant disruption and energy bill that have go up . the payment to the installer from the taxpayer be base on estimate of the household ' s energy use before and after — there be no fact involve . can we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on whether these scheme represent value for money for the taxpayer and the homeowner , and whether they can be make more efficient in the future ? the hon . Lady raise an important question in two part . first , be these home get the improvement that we want they to have under our ambitious plan ? secondly , be the taxpayer get good value for money ? I will draw this matter to the attention of Ministers and ensure that she get a full response . as it be business question , Mr Speaker , I figure I would come to work in my high - visibility jacket . over the summer recess , my team organise a series of roundtable in Waltham Forest and Redbridge with family of child with special educational need and disability . a key theme highlight to I be the need for a more inclusive and collaborative approach — wherever we can , we need to avoid force family into adversarial and often chaotic process for education , health and care plan . do the Leader of the House agree that with the right resource and environment , all school should be able to meet all but the most complex of need without isolate child from their peer ? give that so many family have wait year to receive help , can we have a debate on this subject ? I agree that every child should have access to the good education possible , wherever he or she attend school . it be very clear that the SEND system be break : it do not work for parent or child , and it do not really work for staff , either . we have invest an extra £ 1 billion in SEND and , as my hon . friend know , we be committed to reform the system . we be get on with that , because it be really important that the next generation of child do not suffer the trauma that the current and previous generation have suffer . we keep the House update on these matter , but I be sure that if my hon . friend wish to speak to a Minister , they would be happy to confirm those thing , too . application for battery storage site be spring up all over the country , include in my constituency , and my constituent be certainly very concerned about they . this month the UK Health Security Agency write to my local district council raise concern about one such application , discuss fire risk , toxic gas , the potential for particulate matter cause cancer , and damage that could occur to the aquifer , water supply and the environment , among many other concern . may we have a debate in Government time to discuss the risk of these site , as I do not think they have be consider in sufficient detail ? planning practice guidance encourage developer and local planning authority to engage with local fire and rescue service , so that part of the process clearly need to be follow . should the hon . Lady wish to raise this matter in a debate , I be sure that other will join she in raise their concern and she will get a response from a Minister . the Government have deliver increase funding to local council for school , bus , road and social care . however , the Reform administration in Kent be in chaos , focus on internal dispute rather than deliver for my constituent . at the weekend , a video emerge of the leader of the council shout and swear at other Reform councillor who disagree with she . as Kent county council be responsible for billion of pound of taxpayer ' money , can we have a debate on local government accountability and how we can ensure that the people of Kent receive the high - quality local service they deserve ? there be a theme emerge this morning on the difference between the offer that Reform make in order to get into local government and what actually happen in reality . as the Prime Minister say at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday , " what people get if they vote reform be total chaos and broken promise . " — [ Official Report , 22 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 962 . ] elect representative have a duty to local taxpayer to spend their money wisely . my hon . friend may wish to seek an Adjournment debate to far expose the role of Reform in Kent county council . in a 2019 " Newsnight " interview , Prince Andrew state that he break off tie with the notorious international paedophile Jeffrey Epstein after go to visit he for four day in New York . we have since learn through email chain that he in fact get in contact with Jeffrey Epstein subsequently to that , and state that he be look forward to " play some more " . follow those revelation and further allegation that be in the public domain , I have lay a motion before this House that call on the Government to listen to parliamentarian , the public and victim , and take legislative action to remove the dukedom from Prince Andrew . [ that this House call on the Government to take legislative step to remove the dukedom grant to Prince Andrew . ] when will the Government introduce that legislation ? first , any discussion of this issue need to begin with the simple , important fact that at the heart of this should be remember the victim of Jeffrey Epstein , so we do that . the question of title be primarily a question for his Majesty . I know that there have be speculation about legislation , but the palace have be clear that it recognise that there be other matter that this House need to be get on with , and we be guide in this by the palace . that do not mean that the House can not find way to debate these matter , whether it be the matter of title or of the finance , which I know be also under question . the right hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to find a way to make that happen . it be time to end the taboo around the menopause . today ' s Government announcement that menopause will be include in the 40 - plus health check be a huge step in the right direction . it will mean that woman across my constituency of North Warwickshire and Bedworth will get the medical support that they need . however , we must go far so that every woman get the support that she need in her workplace . will the Leader of the House support a debate in Government time on how to work across Government to ensure that manager , department and business give all woman the support that they need in the workplace in order to thrive ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be time to end the taboo , and I pay tribute to she for she campaigning on this important issue . we be improve menopause support through the Employment Rights Bill , which will require employer to produce an action plan show what they be do to support menopausal staff . there be a Westminster Hall debate last week to mark World Menopause Day , and I be sure that there will be further opportunity for member to discuss these matter . in 2023 , my private Member ' s Bill receive Royal Assent , become the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 . in order to bring it into force , some statutory instrument have to be introduce . police force up and down the land , as well as police and crime commissioner , hail it as a major step forward in prevent agricultural equipment theft and , indeed , power tool theft , as be envisage in the original debate on the Bill . yet last week , I have a letter from the Policing Minister tell I that the content of the Act would be hollow out , with the requirement for immobiliser on quad bike remove and only forensic marking require for GPS unit . that be a bad let - down for rural community up and down the land , so can we have at minimum a statement , or well still a debate in Government time , to explore what this Government ' s real approach be to rural crime ? without the full provision of the Act , it be a free ride for the criminal . rise — order . can we speed up , because a lot of people want to get in , and it be only fair that everybody get a chance ? the Government believe that rural crime be a huge problem and be determined to act , which be why we set up the rural crime strategy and announce new funding for the national rural crime unit . we publish the Government ' s response to the call for evidence , which outline the scope of the secondary legislation need to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act , on 17 October , and we aim to introduce the secondary legislation in Parliament this year . there will be opportunity for the hon . gentleman to raise his very valid concern . every year thousand gather for safe organise firework display . however , this time of year also bring dread for many due to antisocial and inconsiderate firework use , as we have hear . it cause misery and distress for animal , and many vulnerable and elderly people . I welcome the early comment from the Leader of the House on this issue , but can we have a debate on the regulation of firework outside of formal display to minimise their impact on people and animal , and to ensure that they be sell and use responsibly ? my hon . friend and constituency neighbour be an excellent advocate for her constituency , and I thank she for raise this issue . as we have already hear , it be of concern not just to our constituent but to member across the House . council and the police have power to protect the public from misuse and harm , but it be up to this House to make the case as to whether those power represent the full extent need . I would ask my hon . friend to apply for a debate so that those issue can be explore — perhaps in Backbench Business time . last week , Billington Structures , one of the UK ' s lead structural steelwork contractor , announce proposal to close its Yate site , with 81 job at risk . business of all shape and size be struggle due to the increase in national insurance contribution and rise energy cost . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on what need to be include in the upcoming autumn Budget to avert further job loss ? order . before the Leader of the House respond , we only have 30 minute to go , so question must be short and answer even short . the hon . Lady would not expect I to speculate about what be in the Budget , but there will be adequate time during the debate on it to address the concern she raise . while it be obviously necessary to improve the life and dignity of old people , do the Leader of the House agree that in order to build a fairer Britain there need to be some rebalancing of attention and resource towards the young generation ? will he therefore consider a debate in Government time on what I call a youth triple lock ? member , have consult young people , could then discuss what such a measure might include — for example , free bus travel , uplift maintenance loan by inflation or a voucher scheme for constructive activity . my hon . friend raise a number of important issue . we be determined to get the balance right and to get a well future for our young people . he may wish to seek an Adjournment debate or Backbench Business debate to raise those concern . the Birmingham bin strike have now cost taxpayer £ 14 million . resident have have no recycling collection since last Christmas , and the city have lose £ 4 million in income due to no garden waste collection . the strike be do irrevocable damage to the reputation of the west midland , include my constituency . can the Leader of the House ask the new Minister for Local Government to update the House on this situation and on how the Government be go fix it ? yes , I can . young adult in my constituency be still wait more than five month for a driving test . it be just not fair . they can not get to work ; they can not have apprenticeship . will the Leader of the House join I in push the Department for Transport to do something about this very quickly ? yes , I will . I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , which have be highlight by a number of member . I have also raise it with the Department for Transport . the Government be accelerate a consultation into the abuse of the drive test booking system and the reason that we do not have enough place . I will ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear his concern directly . banking hub give resident and business much - need access to cash and banking service , and can drive up town centre footfall to support local business . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the importance of banking hub , and do he agree that the beautiful , historic and incredible town of Yarm would be the perfect location for such a hub ? the Government be commit to provide more banking hub , and indeed some have open . the hon . Member could ask for a Backbench Business debate , because I be sure his concern be share by other , but let I gently say that the beautiful and historic town of Whitley Bay get its banking hub on Friday . Dementia be the lead cause of death in this country , and my constituent tell I of not only the mental decline but the physical condition , poor mobility , infection and increase pain level that sufferer experience . do the Leader of the House agree that it be crucial to improve co - ordination between social care , community care and hospital service ? will he please consider ask the Department of Health and Social Care to treat dementia as a physical health condition so that sufferer and their family can receive the appropriate support they need ? I agree with my hon . friend . we will deliver the first ever modern service framework for dementia to deliver improvement in quality of care . we be committed to tackle the issue he mention and I will ensure that the Health Secretary have hear his concern . in 2020 , my constituent Dorien Williams submit a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman service about the professional conduct of his former legal representative . it take the ombudsman four year to find in his favour . the delay take Mr Williams over the six - year limitation period , deny he the opportunity for legal recourse . do the Leader of the House agree that the ombudsman ' s defence that other customer experience similar delay be totally unacceptable ? will he allow a debate in the House to provide accountability ? it be not good enough to explain away such delay by simply say that they happen and that people should stand in a queue . I think we all sometimes get frustrated at the work that ombudsman do , though they do important work . I will draw the point to the attention of the appropriate Minister to get a response for the hon . Lady . from his first stage performance in the Alloa town hall with the brilliant Forefront stage school to star as Orpheus in " Hadestown " at the Lyric theatre in London , what a journey Tillicoultry actor Dylan Wood have be on from the wee county to the west end . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Dylan on his fantastic theatre run ? do he agree that Dylan be an inspiration to young people across Alloa and Grangemouth to pursue a career in the creative art ? absolutely . I also congratulate Dylan ; it be really important that people get the opportunity to shine and show their talent , and I wish he well . many of my constituent in Berwickshire would prefer to use NHS service in Northumberland , which be much close to they — indeed , Northumbria healthcare NHS foundation trust have say it would welcome those patient — but the SNP Government do everything to stop they , mean that elderly and sick patient have to travel many mile to access treatment . will the Leader of the House grant a debate to allow this matter to be consider far ? do he agree that people should be able to access NHS service regardless of which side of the border they be on ? as someone with a constituency in the area cover by the fantastic Northumbria NHS trust , I be not surprised that the hon . member ' s constituent would rather be serve by it than by the authority where they live . we have deliver Scotland ' s large settlement since devolution . at its heart , this be about get the health service right north of the border , with that money spend properly . I thank the Leader of the House for hold the Black History Month debate in Government time . the recent Government consultation on close the ethnicity pay gap be important . the GMB ' s report show that there be a pay gap in Parliament . will he help I to push forward action plan so that we can close it ? yes , we will ensure a full right to equal pay for ethnic minority in law , and we will introduce mandatory ethnicity pay reporting for large employer to help close the pay gap and to support my hon . friend ' s campaign . last week I hold a drop - in with the great Start in Life Foundation , which support health visitor and school nursing service across much of the north of England , help child and family to get the good start in life . will the Leader of the House congratulate that organisation on its work and find time for a debate on support and strengthen nought - to - 19 public health service , which play such a vital role in improve outcome for child and young people ? I will , of course , congratulate the foundation on its work . the Government be seek precisely to ensure that everybody get the good start in life and that the investment be there , because it pay off later . I recently meet one of my constituent , Toni Hibbert , who express concern about the process through which parent of disabled child can become Court of Protection deputy when their child turn 18 . the application process not only can take many month but require parent to pay large sum throughout , add extra financial burden when they may already be stretch . Toni have start a parliamentary petition , which have receive almost 9 , 000 signature , in the hope of make the process much simple for parent who be often already stretch . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on change that could address this critical issue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise an important issue on behalf of Toni . the Government recognise the difficulty that parent and guardian face . it be important that safeguard be in place from the outset to protect vulnerable people . he will have the opportunity to raise this matter with the Minister directly at the next Justice question , or he may wish to apply for an Adjournment debate . with the Government planning to bulldoze all over the green belt — other party do not fare much well ; the Liberal Democrats , in their manifesto , say they want to build even more house — and give that the Conservatives have pledge to protect the green belt , will the Leader of the House explain to my constituent why the Bromsgrove and the village housing target have increase by a staggering 85 % while Birmingham ' s have reduce by over 30 % ? if he can not , will he grant a debate on this important topic ? the hon . Gentleman may seek either a Backbench Business debate or an Adjournment debate to draw attention to the matter of his constituency . I would gently point out that people need somewhere to live , and that argument against such proposal be often from people who be already have house in which to live and who do not seem particularly bother about solve this particular problem — [ interruption . ] the hon . member chunter from a sedentary position . the public service that people need around housing will only be pay for if we get growth in the economy , and housing be an important part of deliver that . the clock turn back this Sunday and many child will soon go to school in the dark . the Child Brain Injury Trust have a campaign call GloWeek , which promote high visibility so that young people can be see in the dark and avoid accident that can alter their life forever . tomorrow I will join pupil at Chopwell primary school as they learn all about it . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can encourage safety across our community ? as usual , my hon . friend raise an important issue , and I thank she for do so . as the night draw in , it be important that we promote campaign such as GloWeek . work be under way to deliver an update strategic framework for road safety . I will make sure that minister be make aware of the Child Brain Injury Trust campaign . it be announce yesterday that family court will no long presume that contact with both parent be prefer when domestic violence have occur . many in Wokingham , include Kaleidoscopic UK , be concerned that abusive partner will still manipulate court by claim that they be the victim . family court only get limited mandatory training ; that be why resident want an expert to advise the judiciary , case by case , in order to stop abusive practice . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on how we can well implement that advisory role into the judiciary to support victim of domestic violence ? the Government be absolutely committed to support victim of domestic violence . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s concern be share across the House , so I encourage he to seek a Backbench Business debate or an Adjournment debate or to put the point directly to Ministers in Justice question , so that they can respond . old constituent live in the high flat at Callendar Park and Kemper Avenue in my constituency have for year raise the issue of unacceptable antisocial , and sometimes criminal , behaviour . those flat be the last place that any drug dealer should be rehouse . can we have a debate in Government time on housing and the operation of the Equality Act 2010 so we can well defend housing historically reserve for old people from the social consequence of Scotland ' s drug crisis ? it must be a worrying time for resident of high flat . local authority and social landlord have a range of exist lever to tackle anti - social behaviour , include eviction . the Government expect they to use those lever responsibly and proportionately — but , importantly , where appropriate , we expect they to be use . this would make a powerful topic for a Westminster Hall debate and I encourage my hon . friend to apply for one . next month , the UK will be co - host the Global Fund replenishment summit with South Africa , but it have be report that the UK will slash its own funding by 20 % . it be estimate that such a cut will cause 82 , 000 more death in Africa and cost over £ 5 billion to its gdp . will the Government have a debate on the Global Fund replenishment , so that the House can scrutinise these decision before they be make ? the hon . Lady will know why the Government have make some decision on the question of overseas aid , give the situation that we inherit . however , I understand her concern , which will be echo in constituency across the country . today mark the start of the Carlisle beer and cider festival , a fantastic celebration of local independent brewer , include those just over the border in Scotland , who now benefit from the guest beer agreement , make it easy for they to get their product into local pub . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the organiser of the festival and will he arrange for a Business Minister to make a statement on the outcome of the Government ' s market access review of the barrier face by small brewer ? I congratulate the organiser of the festival . Carlisle have a very proud history of brewing and I know that my hon . friend be a strong advocate for the success of much - love local brewery . we be currently assess the beer market to identify any structural barrier prevent small brewery from access pub , and I will make sure that the relevant Minister hear her word . recent study from Stanford university and other have show a clear link between excessive phone use , addictive social media algorithm and deteriorate mental health outcome for young people . technology in this area be evolve at an extraordinary speed , mean that legislation such as the Online Safety Act 2023 be not be implement fast enough before new harm emerge . our NHS be pick up the piece . in my constituency , over 6 , 000 young people be wait for a first contact with mental health service , and that take eight month . will the Leader of the House please find space in Government time for a debate on how we can protect young people by address the grow connection between digital addiction and mental health ? order . that question be far too long . the hon . Lady can seek either a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate , because I be sure her concern be share by other member . that way , she can hear an answer to her point from the relevant Minister . rise — order . shorter question , please . I call Torcuil Crichton . a return flight from my Western Isles / Na h - Eileanan an Iar constituency to Glasgow can cost £ 600 return . that be enough to make Donald Trump think twice about come to his mother ' s home island . there be an air discount scheme , but what we really need be a public service obligation , with Government support for those vital social and economic flight . will the Leader of the House lean on the Department for Transport to get together with the Scottish Government , Loganair and the local authority to make those flight more affordable for islander and for the President of the United States ? I will raise that with the Department and ensure that my hon . friend get the answer he seek . may I join the Leader of the House in his acknowledgment of the start of the poppy appeal ? be he aware that our British Legion in Northern Ireland be now require to have an appoint EU rep to handle compliance for safety issue for product distribute , sell or give for donation during the poppy appeal . do the Leader of the House agree that that be ridiculous and will he speak to the appropriate Minister so we can have a meeting about it ? I be sure that Minister will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . a meeting might be appropriate or , indeed , he may wish to raise it through an Adjournment debate on the Floor of the House . it be a timely topic . I have hear from local resident , as well as local refugee charity in Reading , who be all call for the use of hotel to house asylum seeker to end as soon as possible . that practice begin five year ago as a result of the previous Government ' s irresponsible build - up of the backlog of claim . will the Leader of the House set aside time for the Government to update we on the progress that they have already make to speed up claim processing , as well as to set out the timeline for close down hotel such as the one in my constituency ? as my hon . Friend say , we inherit a broken system . we be work as fast as we can to close all asylum hotel as quickly as be practicable . we have already halve the number open , and I encourage she to raise this particular case at the next Home Office question . in the meantime , I will make Ministers aware of the matter . the last Conservative Government promise to replace Cornwall ' s EU structural funding pound for pound after Brexit , but they only deliver a quarter of that through the UK share prosperity fund . under this government , Cornwall face a devastating cliff edge on that vital funding in March . please will the Leader of the House help all cornish mps convene an emergency meeting with Treasury Ministers ahead of the Budget to ensure that Cornwall be not leave high and dry ? I hear what the hon . Gentleman say because , as he acknowledge , we have some powerful advocate for Cornwall on the Government side of the House . I will make sure that minister be aware of that request and see what we can achieve . across Telford , resident and business tell I that they be not get reliable 5 g connection for broadband or their mobile phone , despite the fact that surround town and city do . some tell I that get even a 3 g or 4 g signal be a real challenge . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of digital connectivity for economic growth and access to public service , and what more can be do to connect Telford ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for his area and rightly put this in the context of not just his constituent ' frustration but the importance of economic growth . I suggest he seek a Backbench Business debate or an Adjournment debate , so that he can raise the concern directly with a Minister . the Chinook Justice Campaign present a petition to Downing Street this week ask for transparency about the Mull of Kintyre crash in 1994 . the Ministry of Defence at Boscombe Down ground these Boeing Chinooks before the flight , but the special force pilot be blame by the RAF , only to be exonerate fully and give a posthumous apology by the Defence Secretary in 2011 . can the Leader of the House press the Defence Secretary , the Justice Secretary and the Victims Minister , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , to have compassion and meet the family , so that they can finally gain an understanding of what happen all those year ago ? I will draw that to the attention of my right hon . friend . this be a serious matter that need a serious response . it be a devastating situation for the family , so I will draw that to the attention of my right hon . friend , as the hon . Lady request . I recently meet a constituent whose husband die while serve in the police force and who now find herself in a difficult position . under the 1987 police pension scheme , survive partner do not receive lifelong survivor benefit , whereas under the 2015 scheme , they do . she feel , understandably , that this create an inconsistency for family who have already give so much to public service . could we have a debate on police pension to discuss whether more can be do to ensure the system treat all police family with consistency and compassion ? I understand very well what my hon . friend be ask for . although there be currently no plan to review the scheme , I urge he to call for a debate , so that he can make his case , which I be sure will be support by other across the House , and ensure that minister hear the significance of this . last week I visit ReMind , a dementia charity in Bath . in an early answer , the Leader of the House mention the modern service framework for dementia and frailty that be promise in the NHS 10 - year plan . can we have a statement from the Health Secretary when that framework be forthcoming , give the urgent need for certainty for all those affect by dementia ? as I say early , we be determined to bring forward the framework . when that happen , I will make sure the Health Secretary hear the hon . Lady ' s call to accompany that with a statement , so that she can hold Ministers to account . it be brilliant that new playground be be build in Derby , include in Stockbrook Park and in Knightsbridge in Mackworth . Stockbrook Park be also home to an incredible local grassroots football club , the Stockbrook Colts , whose play have be stop because the pitch they play on be unusable and in need of repair . they deserve a ground that match the effort they put in . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on grassroots football and its importance to our local community ? grassroots sport club be at the heart of our local community , and I be genuinely sorry to hear of the issue that my hon . friend raise on behalf of her constituent ; I know she be do everything she can to support they . she may wish to apply for a Backbench Business debate , to express her concern and to hear from Ministers about our £ 400 million investment in grassroots sport facility across the UK . I be deeply trouble by the horrific rise in attack against the christian community in Nigeria , include the destruction of church , kidnapping and the recent murder of 13 Christians in Plateau state on 14 October . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those appalling attack and urge the Foreign Secretary to outline what action the Government will take in response to escalating persecution ? we share the hon . Gentleman ' s concern , and I join he in condemn any act against church and religious group . the Government be commit to defend freedom of religion and belief for all . I gently point he towards Foreign Office oral on 28 October , where he may want to raise this directly . I have meet representative from local business in the Jaguar Land Rover supply chain , and there can be no doubt that this Government ' s £ 1 . 5 billion guarantee to support JLR have safeguard thousand of job across the west midland . give the increase cyber - threat face UK industry , will the Leader of the House commit to schedule a debate in Government time on strengthen cyber - resilience across manufacturing and other critical sector ? my hon . friend may wish to seek his own debate on these matter , to highlight this issue and the support the Government give to JLR and all the company that support it . he will know that cyber - security be an important matter . we be work with the National Cyber Security Centre to provide business with tool , advice and support to protect they against cyber - attack . I think a debate to highlight this issue would be well attend . four year ago today , 17 - year - old Phoebe Johnson tragically die in a car crash on the A514 in my constituency . the driver of the car she be in have only be drive for eight week and admit she be too drunk to drive after leave a house party . Phoebe ' s parent Nicky and Paul say : " our life will never be the same again . " they be work with the Brake campaign to push for a graduate drive licence system , to improve road safety and prevent further young life be lose . will the Leader of the House commit Government time for this to be discuss in Parliament ? I pay my respect to Phoebe ' s family . it be an unbearable tragedy when this happen , and it happen too often . work be under way to deliver an update strategic framework for road safety — that will be the first one in over a decade . I will ensure my hon . friend receive an update on that , and should she seek a debate , I be sure it would be well attend . I recently return from Kyiv , where I visit a rehabilitation centre support those injure by the russian invasion . I be deeply move by the dedication of the ukrainian clinician work under immense pressure . as a physiotherapist , I recognise the vital role that ally health professional play in recovery . it be Allied Health Professions Day last week , and I would like to thank all the dedicated clinician for the unconditional service they provide every single day . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the importance of healthcare professional collaborate internationally to help Ukrainians and the UK ? that be a very timely question , and I thank my hon . friend for her commitment to this cause . we be deliver equipment and training to Ukraine , include specialist physiotherapy and prosthetic , and we be a world leader in military rehabilitation , contribute to NATO - fund Operation Renovator . she may wish to raise these point at the next Defence question or apply for an Adjournment debate to push these matter far . for 17 year , the Stirling Observer have run its " give a Gift " appeal , rally big - hearted people , business , school and community group to make sure no child wake up on Christmas morning without a present to unwrap . this year ' s appeal launch this week . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the Stirling Observer — and especially the brilliant and tireless Kaiya Marjoribanks , who have drive this appeal from day one — and consider make time for a debate on the vital role local newspaper play in strengthen our democracy and the community we all serve ? I certainly will join my hon . friend in commend the Stirling Observer for the wonderful work it do with the " give a Gift " appeal and in praise Kaiya for her dedication , ensure that child in Stirling and Strathallan have a gift to unwrap on Christmas morning . it be a really good example of a local newspaper rally the community for a brilliant cause . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome the announcement that , after a strong local community campaign , Hayes police station front counter will remain open ? can we make time in the House to discuss the importance of police front counter , such as the one that need to reopen at Uxbridge , and rebuild neighbourhood police ? I will indeed join my hon . friend in welcome the announcement . he have be a doughty campaigner on this issue , and I be sure he will continue his campaign with regard to Uxbridge . we be commit to ensure community have a visible police presence , and we be take action on that through the Crime and Policing Bill , but he may wish to press this far by apply for a debate . this week , reform - lead Kent county council renege on the £ 500 , 000 agreement it make with my local authority , Medway council , to maintain operation at key tourism and investment organisation , demand a 100 % increase in the contribution from Medway . do the Leader of the House agree that competent leadership in local government be vital and that Reform be clearly not able to govern or deliver for resident ? competent leadership be really important for local government , and there be a duty to local taxpayer to spend money wisely . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . as I say early , if there be an Adjournment debate on Kent county council and Reform ' s track record to date , I be sure it will be well attend . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for wheelchair user . the group have recently receive extensive evidence that there be a clear need for independent oversight of wheelchair provider , and for verifiable datum from the sector . many service user be not provide with a wheelchair within a suitable timeframe , and many have little choice but to go private to access equipment . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time for a debate on wheelchair provision , and the need for sector reform to ensure that wheelchair user be provide with the equipment that they need ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this really important issue , and for his work as the chair of the APPG . I welcome the support that NHS England provide to integrate care board to ensure that service be effective and efficient , but we know of too many case where people be still wait too long to get access . my hon . friend may wish to use the next Health and Social Care question to raise the issue , but I will make sure that minister be aware of the problem that his constituent be experience . black History Month I beg to move , that this House have consider Black History Month . I be honour to open this debate on Black History Month , which , for the second year run , be be hold in Government time . it be a chance to honour those who come before we , to celebrate their life and their courage , and to recognise the huge contribution that our black community make in Britain today . in her powerful opening speech in last year ' s debate , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) make the very clear argument that black history be british history . she say : " the life of black Britons be the building block of our nation , from the roman occupation to the Windrush generation ; because history be never static , but a story constantly be tell and re - tell over again ; and because the voice of black Britons have so often be marginalise and dismiss , ignore and overlook . " — [ Official Report , 24 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 446 . ] she be right : generation after generation , black Britons have be present on the frontline of effort to break down barrier , even when set against persistent and sometimes hostile opposition . I commend the Minister and the Government for bring we this debate . what the Minister say apply to my constituency of Strangford . People from Nigeria , Kenya , Uganda , Egypt , Pakistan and India contribute to the work - life and economy of Strangford , as well its culture , religion and history . I think we all recognise their contribution , and the Minister be make that point in an absolutely excellent way . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . he describe powerfully the contribution to his community and our country of those from all background and nation . this week , it be report that the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , who be herself a descendant of dutch Jews , and whose family lose member during the Holocaust , speak about the desirability of create a " culturally coherent " society , and her plan to return many UK resident to their " home " . such rhetoric fan the flame of racism and division . do the Minister agree that this be their home ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . I think we be all shock by such sentiment . I be the daughter of two people who come to the UK in the 1960 , and I think that the intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) well reflect the contribution make by immigrant to this country . People must recognise that this be our home , this be our country , and we do belong here . during the debate , we will hear about the excellent contribution that those from minority ethnic community have make to civil society , sport , politic , the armed force , art , business and much more , because this country ' s heritage of black excellence be long and proud . black History Month be a reminder of the legacy of those whose talent and fortitude take they and this great country forward , often in deeply challenging circumstance . we should remember driver of change , from Ignatius Sancho , Ottobah Cugoano and Olaudah Equiano in the 18th century , to Claudia Jones , Trevor Carter and Olive Morris in the 20th century ; and we celebrate the black change - maker we see today , from Idris Elba and Naomi Campbell on the world ' s great stage , to those in Parliament , such as my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who be in her place , and Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in wish she a very happy birthday tomorrow . all be icon , visionary and change - maker of our time , and we demand that this be a country where everyone be able to get on in life , regardless of their race . although fight injustice have bring progress , the fight have not be without pain and sacrifice . let I say a few word about where we find ourselves today . we see the growth of right - wing populism in Europe and the United States , and it be for progressive to defend our value of decency , tolerance and respect . we recognise the way people feel today , and the impact of the rise in racism , and together we must send a message that we will fight it once again . People of colour across the country have tell I about fear for themselves , their family and their future . all of we be come together as a nation in a coalition that unite , rather than divide . do so in Parliament today be crucial . a senior businessman contribute million to our economy recently tell I that when he go for a pub lunch in Buckinghamshire , he be tell to " go home " . he be home . we think those day have go , but we be remind that the progress we have make in law , culture and value must be defend , and that today we must consciously make the choice that will build the Britain of tomorrow . that make it even more important that we remember and continue to tell the story of those who come before we , and learn from the past . in 1835 , John Kent become the first black police officer not just in the Carlisle constabulary , but in any police force in Britain . I recently approach Historic England to ask that John Kent be commemorate with a blue plaque in Carlisle . do the Minister agree that John Kent ' s plaque should be just one of hundred that Historic England should add to commemorate and celebrate the contribution of black Britons ? that be a very powerful point . it be vital that we recognise the contribution make by those from minority ethnic community to our history , public service , economy and society . we stand on their shoulder today . I be pleased this week to visit Bristol and the historic M Shed Museum , which tell the story of the city . it bring that story to life through marvellous display on the Bristol bus boycott , the Colston statue and the transatlantic trafficking of enslaved Africans . those powerful exhibition provide the historical context of Bristol ' s role in movement for race equality and social justice . I meet community leader and get a real sense of the live experience and challenge , and hear view from those on the ground about how we drive real change . I be also grateful for the conversation with my hon . friend Baron Rees of Easton in the other place . yesterday , at M Shed in Bristol , I have the privilege of meet the Bristol bus boycott elder , include Guy Reid - Bailey , and hear directly from they about the Bristol bus boycott , which help bring about the Race Relations Act 1965 , introduce by a Labour Government . Guy be 17 year old when he be refuse a job as bus driver because of his colour . at the time , that be legal . he tell his youth worker , Paul Stephenson . of course , Paul be furious , and he speak to the bus company — in vain ; it refuse to change its mind . with the help of Roy Hackett , Audley Evans , Owen Henry and Prince Brown , they call for a boycott , because if their labour be not good enough , nor be their money . two day later , on 29 April , the Bristol bus boycott begin . together , black and Asians march peacefully , with purpose , shoulder to shoulder . student from the University of Bristol and sympathetic Bristolians march with they , in solidarity . they be join by their local MP Tony Benn , and even Parliament ' s very first black life peer , Sir Learie Constantine , loan his support . of course , he too have infamously suffer from the colour bar some year early . after four month of marching with dignity for equality , on 28 August 1963 , the bus company cave in and agree to employ people of all colour . this victory for equality happen on the same day that Martin Luther King give his iconic and immortal " I have a dream " speech during the march for freedom on Washington DC . Madam Deputy Speaker , will the Minister give way ? I will . will the Minister outline what step she be take to ensure that equality and opportunity be at the heart of this Government ' s five mission ? just to help back Benchers , when you intervene on a Member , it be up to they whether they want to take the intervention ; you do not need my authority . I thank my hon . friend for her question and the work she do . she will be aware of the importance of tackle barrier to opportunity , and that everyone , regardless of their race , background , religion or colour , should be able to get on in life . that mission of tackle barrier to opportunity be one of the key priority of this Government , and I will certainly be talk far about the work we have do in the last year , and will continue to do in this Parliament , to ensure that Britain be a place where anyone and everyone can achieve their ambition . I be speak about the important date of 28 August 1963 . three week later , on 17 September , Raghbir Singh , a Sikh , become Bristol ' s first bus driver of colour . on a personal note , it be also in 1963 that a young Sushil Kumar Malhotra make his way to the United Kingdom from India by ship to start work as an engineer in London . this be the environment in which my father take his first step in the United Kingdom . his journey , like the journey of many whom I meet yesterday , be one of courage ; he be navigate a United Kingdom that , at the time , have no race law . he be set up in life , dream of and hope for a well future for his family . in Bristol yesterday , local community artist and activist Julz Davis recount the story of the impact of the Bristol bus boycott and subsequent campaigning against the colour bar by Paul Stephenson , who pass away last year . his campaigning catch the attention of future Labour Prime Minister Harold Wilson , who contact Paul and promise to bring in a race relation Act if elect . Harold Wilson keep his promise , and Labour introduce the Race Relations Act in 1965 , the UK ' s first ever anti - racist law . it be strengthen in 1968 , 1976 and 2000 before be supersede by the Equality Act 2010 . this year , we proudly mark the 60th anniversary of the Race Relations Act , and our theme for this Black History Month be , " legacy of Action : understand 60 year of change and challenge " . the racism that our forebearer experience and that shape their everyday life must not be forget , even as we continue to make progress to redress the past . as we continue to acknowledge and celebrate the life and achievement of black Britons , I want to mention a few other . last summer , I join Lord Simon Woolley , principal of Homerton College and deputy vice chancellor of the University of Cambridge , for his charter night . as the first black man to lead an Oxbridge college , he and other inspire leader , such as Professor Ijeoma Uchegbu and Sonita Alleyne , two other black Cambridge college head , be transform one of the old academic institution in the world , help to ensure that our institution be inclusive and truly representative . while we celebrate Maro Itoje proudly captain England and the british and irish Lions this year , we remember the racist abuse that John Barnes receive from his own fan at the height of his career in the 80 and 90 and , indeed , the more recent racist abuse of black England player , call out by England manager Gareth Southgate as " unforgivable " . in so many way , we as a nation have come far , but the battle be not yet win . we know that it remain the case for too many people in 2025 that their access to opportunity be determine not by work ethic or talent , but by assumption base on race and ethnicity ; that people who have live here for generation , who work hard in our school and hospital , who defend our country , who raise family and who shape the very fabric of our community up and down the country be tell , as my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) highlight , that they do not belong here . we can all be clear that there be still so much to do . indeed , the fight for racial equality be not over . throughout its history , Labour have consistently build on the foundation of the Race Relations Act 1965 to outlaw discrimination base on race in employment and housing and to place legal duty on the police and public body . each new law take crucial step to build a fair society and have lay the foundation for progress that continue today . that be why we be build on past success to tackle racial discrimination today , and it be what drive our mission to break down the barrier to opportunity and put equality at the heart of our plan for change . today we can celebrate the most diverse Parliament in our history and a series of further first , such as my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) become the first black Deputy Prime Minister and the first black Lord Chancellor . over the last year , I be proud of the work that we have do in government , in the Windrush reset that we announce last October and in take forward our work on equality . let I say a few word about the appalling injustice of the Home Office Windrush scandal . I say last year that the fact that people who come to Britain to help at a time of great need should later be make to feel that they do not belong here be , and remain , an outrage . Ros Griffiths , chair of the Friends of Windrush Square , open the " Windrush Untold Stories " exhibition at the Home Office this week . she say : " when the Empire Windrush arrive at Tilbury Docks in 1948 , it bring more than passenger , it bring promise . it bring teacher , nurse , engineer , artist and dreamer . it bring a generation that help rebuild Britain after the war , lay the foundation for the society we live in today . but Windrush Untold Stories remind we that history be not only what be record , it be what be live . for too many , that journey of hope become one of hurt . the Windrush scandal reveal the pain and injustice experience by people who have give so much to this country . this exhibition be about bear witness , reclaim dignity and ensure that the lesson of the past be never forget . it be also about celebrate the resilience , creativity , and brilliance of the Windrush Generation and their descendant , people who despite adversity , continue to build , to create and to love . " the exhibition have be display as part of this Government ' s fundamental reset of the approach after the Home Office - Windrush scandal , in which we have re - establish the Windrush unit in the Home Office and recruit a Windrush commissioner — the Reverend Clive Foster MBE — who will serve as an independent advocate for those affect by the scandal , assure delivery of the Windrush compensation scheme and make recommendation to embed last change in the Home Office and across Government . we have implement the new single name caseworker process for the Windrush compensation scheme to streamline the process and increase transparency . I be proud that we have also launch a £ 1 . 5 million grant - funding programme for organisation at grassroots level to provide advocacy and support for people who need help with the compensation scheme application process . no serious ambition to face those challenge and tackle inequality be possible without also prioritise the perspective of those affect , with community tell we the nature and impact of discrimination . we must do what too many government before we have neglect to do : listen . that be why , in March , we announce a new race inequality engagement group , chair by Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon , to help the Government ' s plan to seize opportunity and remove barrier to racial equality . the group ' s core aim be to strengthen the Government ' s link with ethnic minority community , enable effective two - way dialogue on the Government ' s work to tackle race inequality . the group meet for the first time in June at 10 Downing Street , at a meeting join by the Prime Minister . in September , I join the group as it hold its first thematic roundtable in Birmingham , one of our most diverse city . there , the group closely examine the action take by the National Police Chiefs ' Council to build trust and confidence with black community through the vital police race action plan , and review the work with the British Business Bank and other on tackle barrier to finance for ethnic minority entrepreneur . everyone have the right to feel safe and protect by those who have be grant the power to uphold the law of this country . that be a minimum expectation . we have a long tradition of police by consent : order be maintain primarily by a trusting relationship between the police and the community . that must apply to every community , without exclusion or exception . I be also proud that we be build on the foundation of the past to deliver a legislative programme to address many of the inequality that persist in our society . we be committed to introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting for large employer . our public consultation on ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting close in June , and we be consider the response in order to inform our next step in develop the legislation . the measure will be take forward in the upcoming equality ( race and disability ) Bill , which we have commit to publishing in draft within this parliamentary session . we will work closely with business on develop and implement that commitment to ensure that reporting be beneficial and help to identify tangible action . I appreciate that the draft will be publish in this session , but when the Minister have more information on the timeline for its publication — before or , as be more likely , after Christmas , for example — will she update the House so that we can get ready to scrutinise it and assist with her work , which we very much support ? indeed , the hon . Lady and I have sit on many a Committee to scrutinise legislation , and I understand the desire for clarity . there be still stage to go through to ensure that we fully consider the response to the consultation , and work with the Leader of the House on bring forward that draft legislation , but I will endeavour to keep the House update on progress . we know that claimant face significant barrier when bring pay discrimination claim on the ground of ethnicity or disability . that be why we have commit to make the right to equal pay effective for ethnic minority and disabled people . I look forward to today ' s debate . I thank all hon . member who be here to take part in what I be sure will be a celebration of a define characteristic of our country : its diversity . we recognise that that diversity be in the very fabric and essence of our institution and our society . the language we speak , the food we eat and the culture we enjoy be a result and reward of a country that be confident with difference , that face outward to the world , that be proud of its identity , and recognise , as we all do , that what be so important be that we have more in common . indeed , the story of our nation be a story still be write — a story of contribution , of recognition , of hope , of ambition , of partnership , of continue conversation , listening and learning , and of ensure that all voice be in the room . I will share a quote that I read yesterday at the Rebel Curators project in Bristol : " we share a common history , but yours be quite different you see , so when I talk about liberty , it be through my eye that it must be . and if we have to rebuild then I think first you should ask I . " in this Black History Month , we mark not only the story of individual achievement , but the story of a nation — because black history be british history . Parliament must foster that collective national spirit . it must be a place that reflect the richness of modern Britain and drive the work of reconciliation through inclusion , representation and opportunity . our strength be in our unity of purpose . when every community can see themselves in the national story and know that national purpose care for they , and when every young person know that there be space for their first too , then we will truly be the country that we claim to be . if the House will indulge I , when listen to the Minister I be think about my own parent ' story , especially that of my mother , who would carry I into this country . who would have think that I would make history by sit here in the Speaker ' s Chair ? but my mother ' s story be far more relevant , and her name be Farzand Begum . I call the shadow Minister , and my constituency neighbour , Mims Davies . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very proud of my constituency neighbour ; it be wonderful to see you in the Chair this afternoon . I be pleased to speak in this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . this year ' s Black History Month theme be " Standing Firm in Power and Pride " . it invite we to reflect not only on the achievement of black Britons but on the strength , resilience and leadership that have shape our nation . this be rightly a moment to honour those who stand firm in the face of adversity , lead and continue to lead with pride , and transform institution , community and culture . I be jealous of the Minister ' s visit with Lord Woolley of Woodford . when I be at the Department for Work and Pensions , I try hard to coincide with he but covid get in the way , so I be delighted that the Minister be able to achieve that . the Conservatives agree with the Minister , and I would like to state clearly that black history be british history . Black Britons have shape the nation in which we live in way that we be only begin to recognise and grasp ; I fully recognise that myself , as I learn more . so I agree with the Minister wholeheartedly and , in the spirit of many a Thursday afternoon debate , I be sure we all recognise that there have be progress , and that there be always more to do . from sport to science , politic to public service , black Britons have be weave into the fabric of our society and they have become household name and inspiration . they include member of the current team of victorious Lionesses , as well as those from previous team . one of the most wonderful lady who I have have the chance to meet be Nikita Parris — I be a big fan — but other include Alex Scott , Jess Carter and many more . they prove that people can be black , british and proud , which be a message that we need to hear right now . other inspiration include Dame Floella Benjamin , who sit in the other place — I be show my age and my era when I say that she be on my screen when I be grow up — and the amazing age - defy Naomi Campbell — wow ! — as well as Idris Elba OBE , Sir Lewis Hamilton and Sir Steve McQueen . I join the Minister in wish Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon a very happy birthday for tomorrow . when we think of athlete , we remember Jessica Ennis - Hill and Katarina Johnson - Thompson . HerMove East Grinstead , which be champion by the town mayor , be try to get more woman involve in sport . we also have the " this Girl can " campaign , but HerMove be a grow focus in my town and across the country . we be delighted when Dame Kelly Holmes give it her seal of approval , show that she be inspire another generation . as the Minister rightly say , each generation stand on the shoulder of previous pioneer . it be right that we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Race Relations Act 1965 , which be a landmark in our legislative history . stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box , I find it remarkable how many turn point and change happen in this very building . how amazing that we , as elect representative , get to stand on the shoulder of those previous pioneer and work together . as we commemorate this milestone during Black History Month , we reflect on how far we have come and reiterate how far we have to go . we remember the life and legacy of pioneer , such as Paul Stephenson , who lead the Bristol bus boycott in 1963 , and Lord Herman Ouseley , the former chair of the Commission for Racial Equality . among other , their courage and conviction lay the groundwork for progress that we see today . some 14 % of member of Parliament come from ethnic minority background , which be progress . representation be match by action . we be still work on that in the conservative party , but we continue to push in that direction . we honour the Windrush generation , just as the Minister do , whose story be central to black british history . the voyage of those on the Empire Windrush be now rightly see as a defining moment that lead to the contribution of caribbean migrant , include many who make immense change to our NHS . some 7 . 4 % of NHS staff be black , build on the legacy that begin with thousand of caribbean woman answer the call to fill staffing shortage in the 1950 and 1960 , give up their life to help we with our life . that give I a chance to mention the pin that I be wear — I have get so many on today ; I feel like we be pin up sometimes — which be the Black History Month badge that I get from Amazon . who would have think it ? Amazon ! it really have everything , doesn ' t it ? I recently visit Amazon in my constituency and I be give a badge of the Amazon emblem , Peccy , who be a little parcel . there be a display and it have be do some work with staff in my constituency . we really see everything in the wonderful job of be an MP , and that be wonderful to see . as the Minister highlight , black history in Britain do not begin with Windrush . it stretch back century . the first black MP be believe to have be elect in 1767 . many child rightly know and recognise the immense contribution Mary Seacole make during the crimean war . that speak to our nation ' s long - stand and complex history , which we all need to understand and learn about . this week we celebrate the 220th Trafalgar Day . despite the horrendous and shameful role that Britain play in the atlantic slave trade in the 18th century , the 19th century see a turnabout , with the Royal Navy be use to hunt down slave ship . it be estimate that up to 150 , 000 Africans be liberate from slavery in America as a result of those direct action , which we should rightly be proud of and all grow to understand . I be proud too that when the world face an enemy of the utmost racism during the second world war , 16 , 000 caribbean man and half a million Africans serve Britain to fight back against the tyranny that face they . those story be often airbrush from our national memory and not fully understand , so challenge those omission be part of Black History Month and something that we must all do . we must also confront the present . the racism and abuse in the Euro final in 2021 be a stark reminder of the work that be still need , as the Minister say . there be still too much racist abuse on social medium , particularly around sport . as sport Minister , I take that head - on and work incredibly hard to tackle that abuse on the pitch , which have be see too often in sport . sport should provide an opportunity to celebrate , so I know that past and current colleague will continue to work tirelessly on the issue of racism and wide issue . our landmark inclusive Britain action plan tackle racial disparity , and I be particularly proud of that initiative from our time in Government . before we leave office , we deliver on 62 of the 74 action in just one year after the plan be announce . as a Minister , I be proud to work on access to investment , social mobility and entrepreneurship for all in government . it be vital that this Government build on that and lean into it , as the Minister say . it be vital to understand ethnicity pay gap reporting , and I would be keen that , when she can , the Minister share the response to enable scrutiny and understanding of any potential legislation . as Members of Parliament , we must ensure that Black History Month remain a space for reflection , education and , importantly , celebration , and never division . it must not become a political football . as the Leader of the Opposition have say and as I have reiterate from the Dispatch Box today , teach black history as british history be vital , include highlight the contribution of figure such as Lord Ribeiro , a pioneer in keyhole surgery , and Lionel Turpin , a world war one veteran whose story deserve further recognition . I look forward to celebrate with other the outstanding contribution of those in our constituency and far afield of whom we be so proud , and hear contribution from member across the House . I agree with the Minister : this be a positive story that we can all continue to write . we can celebrate unity , we can reject tokenism and we can boost real opportunity and outcome , so that social mobility be truly here for all . it give I huge pleasure to call the Mother of the House . in this Black History Month , I be sorry to have to say that any objective assessment of the current state of racial justice in this country would not be a wholly positive one . representation be the great success story . we have to acknowledge the progress that be register : we have a black female leader of the Opposition , a Pakistani - heritage Home Secretary , a black caribbean - heritage Lord Chancellor and at least 90 black and minority member of Parliament . when I enter the House in 1987 , there be no black mp whatsoever , and for 10 year I be the only black female MP . sadly , increase representation have not be accompany by the improvement in policy and practice that some of we would have like to see . many in this House have wax lyrical about the contribution make by the Windrush generation of migrant from the Caribbean , and I share that admiration for their bravery and their accomplishment . my mother be one of that generation of west indian woman who come to this country and help to build our NHS . however , I point out to the House that at this point , the majority of Windrush migrant have not have their compensation . if the Minister be not aware of that , I urge she to look into it and ensure that these man and woman get their compensation before they pass away . although we can wax lyrical about the Windrush generation today , all too often in the current political debate migrant be speak about as if they make no contribution at all . we say , " you can only come if you be highly pay . you can not automatically bring your family . we will charge you thousand of pound , even though we need you . you may have no right as citizen or worker . we may even expel you from this country , where we have previously grant you and your family the legal right to stay . " that be not contribute to the cherishing of our migrant class ; it be create a class of third - class Gastarbeiter . among all these other thing , it be be suggest by those on both side of the House that , " you may have to train british worker for your job . " I be old enough to remember when employer be responsible for in - work training . sadly , this policy be the logical conclusion of Brexit and of put the interest of business way before the interest of people . we should remember that all this debate on migration be largely aim at people with black or brown skin . I do not hear the same anxiety and concern about migration from Hong Kong or Ukraine . I thank the right hon . Lady for the point she be make . do she share my concern that much as in the US , where rhetoric have shift through a sudden strategy away from explicit conversation about race to code reference about race , we should be concern by the change in rhetoric ? we no long see racial term be deploy and instead talk about thing such as cultural coherence . I do agree . we have to be very careful about talk about progress when , as my colleague say , a lot of the debate on race be pursue by use code , but the issue still remain the colour of our skin . the hue and cry about immigration today do not apply to migrant from Hong Kong or Ukraine . I be not in favour of that , but the target and constant demonisation of migrant clearly highlight a theme ; sadly , the theme be racism . matter be hardly any well for the long - establish black and asian british community in this country . sadly , we have have successive government who attempt to deny the existence of racism at all . one issue that I feel very strongly about be educational underachievement . even after poverty be account for , mixed white and black caribbean child and black caribbean child have among the low level of educational achievement . among other thing , black child see three time the amount of exclusion as white child . they be go into university in great number , but the proportion be low than in the population as a whole . the level of exclusion for child — both black and white — have alarming consequence for their life chance . a former director general of the Prison Service , Martin Narey , say that on the day a child be exclude from school , they might as well be give a date and time to turn up in prison . if we wish seriously to address the life chance of this generation of black and minority ethnic child , we really have to address issue in relation to education . to my knowledge , none of the four past Secretaries of State for Education — or even the current Secretary of State for Education — have ever mention black child and education . they prefer instead to speak solely of the disadvantage of white working - class pupil . I will give another example of this rampant colour - blindness when it come to education : the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which be currently go through Parliament , make no mention of race . this year ' s child safeguarding practice review say that there be a significant silence when it come to talk about race and racism in child safeguarding . I have work for many year on issue in relation to black child in education , and I plead with Ministers to start to address this issue . we be talk about million of child who be be fail by the system . what be true of education be true for black and asian people throughout their life and across all important area , such as job , pay , housing , healthcare and mental health , as well as in all aspect of the criminal justice system . I remind the House that black people face high police stop - and - search rate , high rate of arrest and high rate of conviction , and be more likely to receive custodial sentence for long period . there be a two - tier justice system in this country , and the victim be black people and , increasingly , muslim man . on top of all that , those suffer these indignity have to listen to a daily diet of claim that they be all a drain on public service . without migrant , many of our public service would not be as strong as they be . they have to hear that they get preference in housing — which be a sick joke , as anybody who deal with housing casework in ethnic minority community will know . they have to hear that they be all sexual predator and paedophile , which be the most monstrous lie straight from the 1930s political playbook . finally , they face the indignity of be tell that those who want to take to the street , try to burn asylum seeker out of their accommodation and randomly attack Muslims have " legitimate concern " . it be one thing to wax sentimental about the bravery and accomplishment of an early generation , but they be , without exception , migrant . I be confident that they would want a debate that look not just back , but forward to a fair and more just society in relation to race and migration . I be aware that many member of this House be not pay attention to this debate , but hopefully some civil servant will read it in Hansard . my parent come to this country in the 1950 . they do not come to be a drain on the public sector , or to harm society in any way . they come to help rebuild Britain after the second world war , they come to contribute and , yes , they come to make a well life for their child . I have to pay they credit ; I have to honour they and that whole generation — so I ask the Minister and the House that we move beyond the sort of debate we be have on migration and that we address issue in relation to race , include education and crime . we have to look at those issue . otherwise , everything we be say in today ' s debate be purely lip service . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be an honour and a privilege , although also slightly daunting , to follow the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who speak so powerfully on this subject . this year ' s theme for Black History Month , " Standing Firm in Power and Pride " , speak to a long and ongoing history of courage , resilience and leadership — of drive change in the face of injustice — and to the pride , purpose and strength find in black community around the world . we owe an enormous debt to the black british community ; from the Windrush generation ' s foundational role in build the NHS to the countless trailblazer who push boundary in politic , the art , science and activism , their legacy be weave into the fabric of this country . however , the work be far from do . too many people still face daily injustice , from racism and hate speech to unequal opportunity and barrier that prevent full participation in society . Prejudice continue to harm life , community and trust . we must acknowledge that reality and act to change it . I be proud that the liberal Democrats be commit to stand firm in this fight . we reject racism in all its form and be determined to drive meaningful change , but very sadly , we see again last summer that racism be still far too prevalent in our society . it creep into everyday life , especially for people of colour , include my constituent who tell I at a surgery last week that his wife no long feel welcome . he tell I that he fear for the future of his mixed - race child and desperately want more politician to stand up and stand firm against prejudice and hate — to call it out for what it be . it be vital that those of we with platform do so . I want to be clear : racism be abhorrent . it be not representative of my wonderful , diverse community in Chelmsford or , by and large , our wonderful country as a whole , and it must be call out . like the rest of the UK , Chelmsford have a proud history of be a welcome home for everyone and , for the avoidance of any doubt , I be proud to say that we be well for it . recognise this , my party and I be clear that we must address past injustice , include implement the Windrush lesson learn review and end the Conservatives ’ hostile environment policy . let I turn to an issue that be very close to my heart : maternity service . I think everyone across the House know that maternity service in general be in dire strait . indeed , although I applaud the incredible hard work of midwife and NHS staff who be battle a system that be so obviously not fit for purpose , the problem be so systemic that a casual observer might be forgive for think that woman have only be give birth for a few year . I and countless other have speak on this matter on many occasion . it be crucial that the Government implement the immediate and essential action in the ockenden review and reverse their decision to end the ringfencing of £ 100 million for vital improvement to maternity care . I mention this specifically today because Liberal Democrats be clear that we must urgently address the appalling , disproportionately high maternal mortality rate for black woman and eliminate racial disparity in maternal health . this must happen right now . it surely can not be right that we continue to accept these inequality today on the promise that there will be more parity in the future . look to our friend in other country , I recently return from a British Group Inter - parliamentary Union delegation to Senegal in west Africa . it be wonderful to return to a country where I have spend a year as a student . it be especially heartening to see the progress that Senegal have make in the intervene quarter of a century , and the pride with which its elect official talk of the strength of their democracy , in a region beset by violent conflict . they be keen to strengthen tie with other country around the world , especially the UK . like we , they be ambitious when it come to increase trade — work together for the mutual benefit and growth of both of our economy — and to tackle the huge inequality that persist . it be clear to I that work together with our friend across the world be what truly help keep we all safe ; indeed , I wear a pin today as a symbol of the new UK - Senegal friendship group that we have form to far that aim . close to home , I pay tribute to some of my own constituency ' s local organisation , which affirm this year ' s Black History Month theme of " Standing Firm in Power and Pride " day in and day out . the over 50 Black Men Forum — a not - for - profit group that have be establish in Chelmsford and across Essex for some year , and be chair by my constituent , Enitan Kane — do excellent work improve the health and community voice of black man over the age of 50 , and aim to reduce future dependency on the NHS among old black man . work with UK Government Departments , the NHS , local council and sport organisation , O5BM now have project across much of the south and east of England , provide critical support for community - lead programme that improve this marginalised group ' s health , that tackle inequality and that challenge prejudice . more recently , O5BM have launch an oral history project . its title , " Soro Soke - O5BM " , be from a Yoruba phrase translate to " speak up " . as it say , it be highlight " the untold story , memory , and experience of old black man in Essex , " encourage they to " speak out , raise their voice , and demand change " . create such project , where black people be give space to remember and celebrate their cultural heritage , community and local story , be so important . as O5BM point out , this be true for a number of reason — from Essex - bear black british youth learn about the experience of their elder to celebrate the joyfulness of our diverse community in Essex , and create an inclusive and accurate history of our British Isles more broadly . we must all preserve history , teach young generation about how far Britain have come , and draw inspiration , knowledge and courage from such story to continue the work of challenge discrimination and improve the life of the black community . on that note , Black History Month also present a wonderful opportunity to build community , which be one of the great tool we have against division and hatred . in my constituency , the New Generation Development Agency be run some brilliant community event , support by Chelmsford city council and the local business improvement district , Chelmsford for you . whether it be NGDA ' s " Chattie ' n ' pattie " drop - in session or provide an open space for people to share their view and experience of race equality , these event provide space for the recognition of local black community voice and teach other how to be well ally . they help we all to well empathise and strengthen our relationship with our neighbour . they reinforce that human really be not that different from one another , and we should all be sceptical of those who claim otherwise . we all have dream , we all experience loss and love , and we all have one life . this Black History Month , as we honour the pioneer , the local activist and the next generation , Liberal Democrats be clear : we stand with you ; we will stand firm in your power and pride ; and we will continue work for a more just , equal and inclusive United Kingdom . I call Dawn Butler . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be all very proud that you have make history and sit in that big Chair for lot of people to see . I welcome the Government ' s decision to hold today ' s debate on Black History Month in Government time — something that I have call for many time . before I forget , I want to congratulate Brent council on its excellent Black History Month event yesterday . I also thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , for her speech — her word be always really quite move . the only thing be that when we look behind the shadow Minister and see none of her colleague , it make we think that she be the only one who think like that in her party . however , we be glad that she do , and we chair the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament together , and we do that very well . I be pleased that we have at least one good voice in her party . October be an exhausting month for a lot of we , and that be not just because it be Diwali , and yesterday be hindu new year , and we celebrate Bandi Chhor Divas , too . I be proud yesterday to wear my sari in the Chamber , and I wrap it myself . I do 50 - odd squat try to get in to ask a question in Prime Minister ' s question — I be not call — and my sari stay intact , so I be proud of myself . October be also Breast Cancer Awareness Month , although I have avoid a lot of that this year , as it be trigger , but we can not avoid talk about Black History Month . I see a powerful affirmation on Jools TV that go : " I love myself , I love my skin , I love my hair , my melanin " . I think that be so amazing . it be for kid , but adult can take a lot from that , too . since last year ' s Black History Month , we form the Parliamentary Black Caucus . the found member include Josh Babarinde , the Mother of the House , Diane Abbott — Order . we do not read out the name of member ; their constituency will suffice . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I should know well . I will have to google all their constituency . anyway , we have some amazing found member of the black caucus , and that will go from strength to strength . among all the positivity , I be tired . when we see 110 , 000 people march in London lead by a far - right racist , it be absolutely exhausting . it be trigger , too , and not just for I , but for my parent ' generation and for everybody who have ever suffer racism . it be true that not everybody on the march be racist , but there definitely be a hell of a lot of racist on that march . when people say , " I want to get my country back , " I wonder , " back from whom ? " there be a south african call the shot . the racism that have increase and escalate since March be not even new ; it be quite old , and it be from the apartheid era and slavery . I will read the House just a few of the racist message that have be send to I . one say : " you ' re not English and you don ' t belong in the country , deport yourself " . ChadKing97 say : " there be no ' our ' you african monkey " . RojamWej say : " pipe down monkey " . Bahicks1905 say : " fuck off you ape . " another one say : " you be go home . you know it , we know it . " it just get bad and bad , and it be not new . they have not even upgrade their racism . it be just old , pathetic and annoying , but it be scary . a young lady who come to work for I year ago say that she have never see the word nigger so often in her life , and she do not expect that . the Mother of the House receive more abuse than every single MP in this House . sometimes I wonder about this disregard or disrespect . when I come into Parliament in 2005 , there be only one black woman MP , the Mother of the House . the Mother of the House have suffer offensive and horrendous abuse . what do we do ? how do we stop it ? how do we end it ? let we start with the flag . the flag be for everybody who be british , right ? those people who have try to weaponise it — not try to ; they have — have always weaponise it . my brother be chase down the road by skinhead racist thug wrap in the flag to kick their head in , and I have always say that if we be go to reclaim the flag , we have to reclaim it with a narrative and with context . we can not just put the flag on everything and think it will be okay . I would like to see a couple of thing . I would like the Government to work with the royal family to change the word " empire " to " excellence " . I mention that many year ago , but now be the time . the royal family be look to modernise , and it would be a great way to modernise , because at the end of the day we be recognise people who be excellent in this country . if we be to unite instead of fight , what would change ? that be what a lot of people be scared about . the people who be try to get other people to hate be monetise that hate . as we have see with a lot of people , money do not make you happy . the truth be that if someone get their joy and energy from hate other people or from racism , there be something misalign in how their brain work . racism and hate make most of we tired — it be absolutely exhausting — but I say to the racist that they have not break the Mother of the House and they will not break I . from time to time , I might get tired , but I will continue to stand firm in power , and alongside I will be my ally . they will be black , white , brown and everyone in between , because there be more of we than there be of they . if people do not believe I , there be a clip of an incident that happen in Brent just recently with a white woman call Miranda . she run the Tiny Pod podcast , and she witness a young black man be pull out of his car by a police officer and his head bang on the floor . blood be dripping from his head , and she record the whole thing . she be extremely vocal in her allyship and advocacy to ensure that no other harm be do to this young black man . the police say to she to move away , and she say , " I be not move away . I be stay right here . " in the end , the young black guy say , " no , I want she with I . " he say that not because she be a white woman , but because she be protect he . as I say , there be more of we than there be of they . in Wembley arena next year , stand up to Racism , Hope not Hate and other organisation be go to hold a Love Music Hate Racism concert . it will be one of the big in the country , and it will be a powerful event . I be try to get Adele to come back . if anybody know she , let I know . we will have the big name in the music industry , and we will show how great Britain be through our diversity and our love of music and not racism . I want to end with some word from John Lewis , the civil right activist . he say : " do not get lose in a sea of despair . be hopeful , be optimistic . we use to say that ours be not the struggle of one day , one week or one year . ours be a struggle of a lifetime , or even many lifetime , and every one of we , from every generation , must do our part . and if we believe in the change we seek , then it be easy to commit to do all we can … never , ever be afraid to make some noise and get in good trouble , necessary trouble … because the responsibility be ours alone to build a well society and a more peaceful world . " our power lie not in money , medium or control ; our power lie in our number and in our courage and our collective fight for justice . it be against they — those who try to divide we — but when we stand united , we will win . with hope and optimism , I hope Adele get that message . it be quite scary to follow the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) and the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , who be both formidable advocate against injustice . I have do several debate with the hon . member for Brent East , and I have so much respect for how she speak to the Chamber . she be talk about that tiredness that people be feel just now , from constantly have to fight for every single thing , and constantly have to argue against the injustice be serve on her constituent and mine , as well as those of a significant number of member across this House . it be absolutely tiring , but if she or the Mother of the House ever want a cup of tea , a bit of allyship or , as we say in Aberdeen , a bosie — a cuddle — they should give we a shout . we be happy to oblige and to be unite together . the Mother of the House highlight the cognitive dissonance that some politician seem to have : they stand up and talk about Black History Month , while simultaneously refuse to discourage people who be protest against migrant . that be really important . we need to remember that we can not talk about the injustice that so many people face just once a year in this Chamber ; we need to be fight every single day . every day that we have energy , we should be use it to ensure that there be an anti - racist narrative across society . I represent Aberdeen North , one of the more diverse constituency in Scotland . I will focus on the city of Aberdeen , because the census result be break down by city rather than constituency , so it be much easy to do that . about 13 . 4 % of people in Aberdeen come from a bme background , which be not that high , but over 20 % of people in Aberdeen be not bear in the United Kingdom , which be pretty high for Scotland . some 2 . 5 % of people in Aberdeen be bear in Nigeria . there be 5 , 600 Nigerians — people who be bear in Nigeria , not the descendant of immigrant — live in Aberdeen . we have a significant number of people who be work every day , who be contribute and who be make a difference . I will mention some individual , from both the past and present , who have make a difference in Aberdeen and Scotland . however , I note that there be so many people whose name we will never mention , who be work quietly as carer or in our NHS and do job that be really difficult . I have be a carer , and it be a really hard , physical job that so many people do not want to do . to those who be make people ' s live well and do miracle every single day , and whose name I do not mention , thank you for your contribution . it be massively appreciated . I will first talk about some figure from the past . there be a wonderful part of the University of Aberdeen website that talk about the history of black Aberdonians and people who graduate from the university . Christopher James Davis , who be from Barbados , graduate in 1870 — we think he be the first black graduate — in medicine , and then go to volunteer as a doctor in Sedan during the Franco - Prussian war . sadly , he die from smallpox in the same year that he graduate . Nathaniel Thomas King graduate from Aberdeen in 1876 . he move back to Nigeria and be one of the trailblazer in improve sanitation in Lagos . again , he be another medicine graduate from Aberdeen . Edward Tull - Warnock be a dentist in Aberdeen and Glasgow . his father be bear in Barbados , although Edward be bear in Folkestone . his brother be probably the first black commission officer in the British Army . as I say , Edward himself be a dentist , and he be not call up to the war because of that . we need dentist during that time , particularly because so many people who volunteer or who be call up be reject on the basis of the quality of their tooth and how likely they be to be ill as a result , so dentist be often an exempted occupation . Edward practise as a dentist for a significant number of year , latterly in Glasgow . again , he be a real black trailblazer — potentially the first black register dentist in Scotland . in some of these case I be say word such as " potentially " , and I can not talk about early woman graduate of Aberdeen University because the register just be not there . the roll be there , but there be not enough information and the research have not be do . the university be look to rectify that in the future , but , again , there be story that will maybe never be tell , because we just do not have the information . I want to highlight some of the people in my constituency , and in Aberdeen more widely , who be make a difference , and whose story might not otherwise be hear . Bertha Yakubu MBE come to Aberdeen in 1993 and really struggle with isolation . Bertha and the African Women ' s Group in Aberdeen write a book call " African Women speak " , one of the most powerful book I have ever read . it be about their experience of come to Aberdeen and Scotland , how different it be from the country they be bear in , how different the experience be , and how difficult they find it to integrate , to find fellow feeling , and to find love and support in the community in Aberdeen . it really be a brilliant book , and I urge member to get hold of it . Bertha now do a huge amount of work support woman who be suffer from domestic violence by provide they with kinship , love and support , and by just be there for they . that be sometimes what people need to gain the courage to flee . I want to talk about Ify Anyaegbu , who be in charge of FACEYOUTH , a charity that focus on mental health . it focus on young people , and on reduce the disadvantage that they feel in Aberdeen . I have meet she on a number of occasion , and she be an absolute force of nature . she will do everything that she can to try to reduce disadvantage in Aberdeen . Jane Akadiri be the founder of Touch of Love , an empower and uplift christian community in the city . it do a huge amount of good , particularly with disadvantaged group and people on the low income . Florence Igboayaka , the founder of the Period Place , have write a book call " the Period Comic " , which be excellent . if young people age between eight and 14 want to learn about what period be like , the comic be a fabulous place to start , and I thoroughly recommend it . she have also create a line of period product for woman with heavy period flow , which I understand a lot of african woman have . across the UK , a significant number of woman from all heritage be not serve well by the period product currently on the market . she also start , in Aberdeen , the " walk to give she a voice " , which be focus on ensure that woman feel safe , and can walk in their community and talk about the thing that matter to they . we should be able to talk about period and the menopause , and to get the support that we need . those be some incredibly inspiring woman , and my city would not be the place it be today without all the work that they do in our community . the hon . Lady may not know that I be a pilot in the Royal Air Force . I use to do a lot of work advocate for young black people enter STEM — science , technology , engineering and mathematic — industry , so I have the great privilege of visit Aberdeen on a number of occasion . unfortunately , I will not be able to visit next week , when the Association for Black and Minority Ethnic Engineers hold its annual conference in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . the association be create by Dr Nike Folayan MBE and be support ably by Folayo Osekita , who be a representative of Leonardo . will the hon . Lady join I in recognise the excellent work that they do , create a new history for her town ? I absolutely agree . I have meet the Association for Black and Minority Ethnic Engineers . unfortunately , I do not realise it be have its conference next week , but I thank the hon . member for let I know . it be a fabulous organisation . there continue to be a very tough glass ceiling in engineering . we be get a huge number of more diverse candidate and graduate come through in engineering , but at the high level of senior management — for example , in the energy industry — we be struggle to make that breakthrough , and to have enough black and minority ethnic individual , so I support his comment . I support the Association for Black and Minority Ethnic Engineers , and I will do everything I can to assist it in break that glass ceiling . there be also a glass ceiling for female engineer . there be intersectionality here ; it be particularly difficult for black female engineer to get to the high senior management position . I will keep do everything I can to support that organisation and other . to build on what the Mother of the House say , and what the hon . member for Brent East say about the protest , the societal view be express right now be horrific . however , there have be an undercurrent for a very long time , and this be stuff that people have be think . part of what drive some people to vote for Brexit be view such as , " there ' s too much immigration — I don ' t want all these people here . " I be sure all Labour Members have read " the Ragged Trousered Philanthropists " ; they will know that it talk about the Conservatives of the time put forward the racist narrative that " all your problem be cause by the immigrant . we just need to get rid of they . " this have be a narrative for 100 year , and we still need to counter it — perhaps more so today than ever , and certainly more than we have need to at any other point in my adult life . we need to do everything we can to stop these racist be allow to say anything they want . I agree with the hon . member that some of this negativity around race and asylum have always be there . do she agree that the rise of Reform have embolden people who always think like that to speak publicly in that way ? do she also agree that none of the party in this House should be chase after Reform ? that be a brick wall for a progressive party . I could not agree more . People have have these racist thought and have keep quiet about they , but they be now embolden to say they out loud because of people like the Reform mps , and because of the racist narrative be bring forward . no one should be look to chase policy such as mass deportation . none of we should be put forward those policy . we should recognise and celebrate the impact of people who have choose to live in our country . I want to tackle one of the narrative put forward by some of the racist in my constituency : they have say that the saltire be a christian symbol and be only for white Christians . that be not true . the saltire be for anybody who be bear in Scotland , or choose to come to our country to live , to contribute to work life , and to be part of our wonderful , vibrant community . it be for every single one of we . it be not just for Christians and not just for white people ; it be for everyone . we can all — everybody live in Scotland , everybody bear in Scotland and , frankly , everybody who want to — celebrate and love the saltire and claim it for our own . I know I be take quite a bit of time , but I want to talk about a few more issue , particularly some Government policy . I really appreciate the work be do on remove the pay gap , include the ethnicity and gender pay gap . it be look at what more can be do , and particularly at intersectionality , and case where people be multiply disadvantaged . all of we have a responsibility to check our privilege . we have a responsibility to think about the fact that we have our privilege — we get high salary as Members of Parliament , and we may be educate , white and middle - class — while other people face multiple detriment , and multiple form of judgment and prejudice . they be find it hard and hard to make it through . they be so tired because of the constant drip , drip — or sometimes gush — of negativity against particular immigrant . a few thing in the immigration system disadvantage people who be not white . there be still a significant issue with the refusal of visitor visa for people from country where people be not white . there be a significant refusal rate for visitor visa for people from Nigeria . I still struggle to fathom why some constituent should be less able to have their mum come over to see they graduate than other who be bear in another country , but be white . it feel like there be a racial element to that . any work that can be do to ensure that the visitor visa system be fair , and to make it more likely that people can get their relative over to visit , would be incredibly worthwhile . the " no recourse to public fund " system have now open up , and apply to far more white people than it use to — I disagree entirely with " no recourse to public fund " — but under the system , there be family who be struggle to feed their child . there be family who be not support throughout covid . what particularly bother I be that they include family with young child . I do not think we should have the " no recourse to public fund " system , but if we be go to continue to do so , I do not think it should ever apply to family in which anybody be under five — or under 18 . child should never go hungry because a family have no recourse to public fund , particularly if family member have live and work here . sometimes their have no recourse to public fund be no fault of theirs ; a Home Office mix - up have put they in that situation , and they have be ban from work for a period . that be horrific , and " no recourse to public fund " need to go . on the change in residency requirement for leave to remain , so many of my constituent have contact I say , " I buy a house in Aberdeen because I be under the impression that I would get indefinite leave to remain after a five - year stay . the Government have now change that to 10 year . I don ' t know if they , or the next Government , whoever they may be , will ever allow I the right to stay , but I will have to continue to pay health surcharge every year in the meantime . " those people may have choose to live in Aberdeen in order to work in our NHS and to make our community well . I do not think we should have any change at all in the residency requirement , but any move to make change retrospective would be incredibly unfair . there would need to be an equality impact assessment to show what percentage of people disadvantage by the policy be from black and minority ethnic background . I be willing to bet that the figure would be incredibly high , and it be therefore a policy that no progressive Government should pursue . however , I want to be positive . I want to talk about the incredible work that my constituent have do , but I could not do so without recognise that it be a scary time . I hope that voice from across the House today — and the voice of my constituent , uplift and champion their friend and colleague , and those who work in charity — can at least bring a ray of sunshine right now . we can not fix everything overnight , as the hon . member for Brent East say . this be a very long - term project , but we will get there . we will keep cause a little bit of trouble — good trouble — where we need to , and we will do everything we can to ensure equality , recognise that we have more in common , and make the difference that really be need . I be always very pleased to speak in this House during Black History Month . I say that not out of ceremony , but out of conviction . I believe that it matter for black Britons watch today to see this Parliament take time to reflect on our history , our struggle and our contribution . it matter that our story be not confine to footnote or commemorative month , but recognise as part of the very fabric of british history . each October , I believe this debate should be on the Order Paper as a matter of course , yet too often it have be absent or dependent on the will of a few determined member . let I thank all those involve in ensure that this debate take place during Government time . many of my colleague will rightly use this opportunity to honour the giant of black british history — the leader , thinker and ordinary people who achieve extraordinary thing , often in the face of unimaginable obstacle . I pay tribute to they all , but today I want to use my time differently . I want to speak frankly about why , decade after the civil right movement and year after black life Matter bring million to the street , we still have not tackle racism in this country and beyond . I want to say plainly that we have not tackle racism because we have not fully commit to repair the inequality we have a part in create . we have not commit to reparatory justice . in 2020 , after the murder of George Floyd , more than 240 , 000 people sign a petition call on the Government to include Britain ' s role in colonialism and enslavement in the national curriculum . it become one of the most sign petition ever submit to Parliament and that moment feel like a turning point . I sit in the debate that follow . I remember the sense of hope that at last we would be honest about our past , honest about the empire that build Britain ' s wealth and honest about the life it destroy , because hundred of thousand of british people want it . yet five year on , and 39 year after Black History Month be found in the UK , very little have change . Britain ' s colonial past be still treat as an optional topic , not a foundational one . black british history be still squeeze into one month and often teach only by those teacher who go above and beyond , use their own time and resource . many young people grow up learn in history a lot about our monarchy , but not about our empire . the history of our monarchy be important — it speak of how our country come to be . some might be surprised to hear that I be a fan of the odd period drama . those story be very interesting , but it have to be wrong that some never hear about Queen nanny of the Maroons , Mary Prince , Olaudah Equiano , the Bristol bus boycott , or even the role of the british state in the enslavement of million . that speak to the fact that our country do not want to engage with these issue . young people be teach about industrial innovation , but not about who pay the human cost for that progress . that cherry - picking of what to teach point to something more worrying , because we also miss out on learn about other working - class struggle , such as the miner ' strike and the suffragette — those story that educate we on the power we hold as citizen and the thing people have do to challenge injustice . we can not say that this nation be face its history when it still refuse to teach it fully . we have talk a lot about patriotism recently . let I be clear : I do not believe that patriotism be about pretend that our history be glorious and benign ; patriotism be about be honest enough to confront the truth , because only a nation unafraid of the truth can hope to build a just future . I believe that in order to stand firm in pride and power , as the theme of this Black History Month ask , we must address these issue , because where be the pride in not recognise you be wrong , and where be the power in not tackle global injustice that have fail to be repair ? last night , I have the honour of deliver the National Union of Journalists ' Claudia Jones memorial lecture . Claudia Jones , the journalist , activist and mother of the Notting Hill carnival , teach we something very powerful . she teach we that the struggle against racism can never be separate from the struggle against imperialism . she write : " imperialism be the root cause of racism . it be the ideology which uphold colonial rule and exploitation . " that be not just a historical observation ; it be a diagnosis of the present . when far - right politic rise across Europe , when migrant be scapegoate and when global inequality widen , Claudia Jones ' s word feel prophetic . she understand that racism at its root be not about personal prejudice or isolate ignorance . too often , we try to reduce it to the " few bad apple " argument . racism be structural . it be the operate system of an economic and political order build through empire that exist today . it be the logic that justify , and still justify , steal land , steal labour and steal wealth . it be the logic that say that some people be disposable so that other might prosper . racism do not appear by accident . it have no factual basis . racism be engineer . that be why I say that we can not dismantle racism without repair . if racism be build into the economic foundation of this country — in land , in labour and in capital — then the remedy must also be material . we can not tackle a problem without get to its root . it be not enough for we to express deep regret and other platitude . it be not enough for we to change a few name and statue and call it progress . we must repair the harm structurally , economically , culturally and politically . that be the very heart of the global movement for reparation . this year , the all - party parliamentary group for afrikan reparation , which I chair , host the third annual UK reparation conference . we see hundred of activist , scholar , lawyer and community leader come together from across the world and the message be clear : the demand for repair be no long a fringe issue ; it be a moral and political necessity . and yet in Britain we still refuse to apologise for our role in enslavement and colonialism . we refuse to return steal artefact . we even refuse to return human remain , deny dignity even in death . we refuse to engage meaningfully with reparatory justice . even last year , when the Commonwealth nation call for a mere discussion on reparatory justice , we say no . what do that sound like , give the history of the Commonwealth ? our country have not apologise , it have not repair and it have not make amend . but the tide be turn and young people be ask the right question . institution be begin to confront their own archive . the debate can no long be bury or delay . we have to be clear that reparation be not only about money . how could they possibly be ? if people think the call for reparation be a call for cash , they have not be listen . how can it be ? what amount of money could ever really compensate for what happen , which be one of the great crime in human history : enslavement , traffic , genocide , ecocide , widespread theft and everything in between . reparation be about truth , restitution and transform relationship between nation , between community and between the past and the present . reparation be about acknowledge that Britain become one of the rich nation on Earth not just through industry and ingenuity , but through the extraction of human life and labour from Africa , the Caribbean , Asia and beyond . when enslavement be abolish , it be not the formerly enslave who receive compensation ; it be the enslaver . they be pay the modern equivalent of billion of pound for the loss of human property . british taxpayer , include black Britons , finish pay off that debt in 2015 . that be not distant history ; it be the present . it be certainly the present in my taxpaye history . meanwhile , the descendant of those who endure generation of force labour receive nothing — to this day , not even an apology . their name be often erase from the story of their own liberation . freedom have be parade as a gift . when I talk about reparation , I , the descendant of enslave and colonise people , be often tell that I should be grateful that Britain abolish the slave trade . I be proud of the role that this country , my country , play in the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade , but that alone can not be absolution . I be sorry , but I can not see how , just because an arsonist feel guilty , we would absolve they for start the fire in the first place . the injustice I speak of do not end with that emancipation . it continue through colonial rule , through the Berlin conference that carve up Africa without a single african present , through artificial border and economic dependency , and through the extraction of resource that continue to this day . it mean that at the UN in 2025 , african nation still have to get up and ask to be include in the UN Security Council , despite the fact that african and caribbean nation make up the majority of the country in the world . when people ask , " why reparation ? " , I ask in return , " why do we ever think that freedom without repair be enough , or that it be freedom at all ? " in this Parliament , I be proud to be part of the legacy of the late , great Bernie Grant , who stand in this very Chamber and call for reparation when few dare to . without truth , there can be no justice . without justice , there can be no healing . that be why the all - party parliamentary group believe we need a commission for truth and reparatory justice . the commission would not simply investigate the past ; it would examine how legacy of that past be alive in the present in the racial wealth gap , health inequality , educational disparity and the policing of black community . none of these pattern be accidental . they be build , and because they be build , they can and must be dismantle , but that will happen only if we have the political courage to do so . to do it , we have to move away from this lazy , reductionist style of politic , which often talk about what we can not do instead of talk about what we can do . every major institution in this country — bank , university , the monarchy , museum — carry trace of wealth extract through colonialism and enslavement . the evidence be in the bank ledger and shipping record and in the foundation of building across this city . that history do not belong in footnote ; it belong in how we shape our policy today . no individual group need permission to demand justice . the call for reparation be ground in international law , in human right and in the moral truth that those who profit from crime against humanity have a duty to repair they . this be not about guilt or unpick the past , as I have be accuse of do previously — it be about responsibility . it be about not division , but healing . however , healing can not begin when the truth have not be tell . that be why the teaching of black history as british history be in itself reparatory . if we be serious about tackle racism , we have to be serious about this repair . racism be about not just word or attitude , but material condition — who own wealth , who hold power , and who have access to housing , healthcare , safety and dignity . racism persist because the harm have never be repair . the call for reparation have survive century because it speak to something beyond politic . it speak to the human need for recognition , justice and dignity , and to the possibility of renewal — not just for the nation that be wrong , but for Britain itself , because black Britons be part of that story . I could be the rich person in this country and rise to the high office in this land , but I understand that I will never escape racism ; by its very nature , until there be justice for every single person who look like I , nothing will change in that regard . now the world be change and our place in it be precarious if we do not change our attitude , which still feel root in empire . I want our country — my country — to be look on with respect and admiration , not because it never get anything wrong , but because we have the courage to put what we get wrong right . hon . member may be wonder about my jacket today , and the truth , frankly , be that I be tired of be upstage by the thread of my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . however , this jacket be also a symbol of my identity . I get it when I go to Zambia in July in my role as trade envoy to southern Africa . the fabric be what we call chitenge , and it be the same kind of material that my mother , and indeed her mother , Joesphine Hambelele Nakun Tunga , wrap I in at birth . that visit be important to I because I be proud of my heritage , but my home be here in London . that be my identity — I be british Zambian . that be my story . last Friday , I visit Centrepoint in my constituency and have a great conversation about opportunity for young people . one conversation with a young woman have stick in my mind because of what she say , which be " I be black British . that be who I be , and I want you to know both of those thing . " why be that such an important thing to say ? for I , it be about what we be proud of . it be about freedom , democracy and the rule of law . we must remember that those idea be first write into the story of this nation on the field of Runnymede in 1215 . Magna Carta lay down the truth that still bind we : that no one , not even the most powerful , be above the law . those be the foundation on which our democracy be build — the freedom from which so many nation , such as the United States , derive their own , and the freedom that underpin the very concept of a free world . they be the principle of democracy for which our country fight in the face of fascism and Nazi Germany in this nation ' s fine hour — our great generation . yet stand quietly above those meadow , look down on the birthplace of liberty , be another monument : the Commonwealth Air Forces Memorial , which bear the name of more than 20 , 000 man and woman who have no know grave . above the place where freedom be first sign into existence stand a memorial recording the name of those who give their life to defend it . when I lead the Royal Air Force ' s ethnic minority network , we use to visit the memorial every year . we would walk among those name — black , brown ; Christian , Muslim , Sikh , Hindu — from across the Commonwealth , remember the people who come not as visitor but as defender of Britain , stand shoulder to shoulder against fascism and tyranny . among they be Noor Inayat Khan , a british indian woman raise in London who train as a wireless operator in the Royal Air Force and work for the Special Operations Executive . she be capture , torture and execute in Dachau for refuse to betray her comrade . her final word be the cry of " Libert é " , or freedom — the same freedom sign into be below her memorial on the field of Runnymede . her life and her death complete that circle — from the parchment that promise liberty to all people to the courage she display in preserve it . though his name be not carve on the wall of Runnymede , Flight Lieutenant Johnny Smythe stand in that same lineage of service , sacrifice and selflessness . a Sierra Leonean who fly with the Royal Air Force , he be shoot down and hold in a prisoner of war camp . yet when he return to Britain , he choose not to turn away , but to help to rebuild it . work in the Colonial Office , it be Smythe who conceive the idea of recall a troopship , the Empire Windrush — a troopship fill with our veteran who have fight for our freedom , who we know as the Pilots of the Caribbean — back to our shore , full of servicemen and nurse . that act give birth to a new chapter of our shared history . so when hon . member hear the word " you call … and we come " , let we remember that it be not the voice of a white official , but the voice of a Sierra Leonean man — a black british man and RAF officer who have already fight for his country ' s freedom . that be how deeply black history run within , not beside , british history . this be how we counter division and exploitation . this be how we undo the false narrative and understanding of our history and our british identity that cause the Windrush scandal and that be enable our enemy — the enemy of freedom , equality and british value — to mobilise today , because we be now see those thing regularly online , on our street and in part of our medium , frankly , that we would have never see a few short year ago . we be see vicious hate speech and open racism . racist be speak out with not only impunity , but the sense that they speak for the spirit of the moment , and we must be clear that they do not . that be what we be fight against . but what be we fight for ? I think we can see a positive narrative emerge in our community . I want to give an example from South Woodford , where the community come together after a sequence of event that cause real fear in our community and across Leyton and Wanstead . after the racism and extremist violence we see during Tommy Robinson ' s march last month , the appalling antisemitic attack in Manchester , the firebombing of the mosque in Peacehaven and the calculated vandalism design to intimidate — include the flag raise on the viaduct across from the South Woodford islamic centre — we be bring together by Councillor Joe Hehir , Dr Fahim from the islamic centre , Rabbi Richard Jacobi from East London and Essex Liberal synagogue and Reverend Dr Elizabeth Lowson from St Mary ' s parish church Woodford . Dr Fahim unite we with his word , but they be also the word of the broad community and the leadership of South Woodford society , include Pearl , Louise , Rena — and her excellent tea , I must say — Elaine Atkins MBE and Andy Pike . their simple message be : " Love South Woodford . hate racism . " here be what I think we can do next . we will raise our flag . we will celebrate our synagogue , our mosque , our church and our community in South Woodford . we will gather together as a community and talk about our history under our flag . we will do that across the constituency , and celebrate with pride all the people in our community , regardless of where they come from . we will celebrate with other migrant like I and our beloved Okan Aslan , who next week will also identify as be british . if we be serious about tackle hatred , and stand up to those who would tell we that this be not our land , then we must ensure that these story be not confine to a single month , or to those who already know they , like I . the story of Noor Inayat Khan and Johnny Smythe , and the people like I who have come after they , must be own by and teach to and by we all . when every child in this country know that our history be all of our history , we will not defeat the far right ; we will remove the ignorance that fuel and create it . ultimately , we need to do that — otherwise , we can not defeat it . we be not yet in the same place that Noor Inayat Khan and Johnny Smythe be . we need to defeat the want , ignorance and fear from which hate be draw . we need to prevent malign actor from exploit anger and alienation , and the evil that create they . black history — black british history — be our great weapon in do so . my remark will be influence by my membership of the Health and Social Care Committee , and by the fact that I be the vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on black health . also , like my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , I have the pleasure of be a trade envoy : for Morocco and francophone west Africa . we share a great interest in that continent . I will focus my remark on health . when we talk about health and black people , very often we talk about the huge improvement in recognition of one outstanding person : Mary Seacole , who be now just talk about as a nurse who do wonderful thing in the Crimea . she have reach the august stage of not just be refer to as " the black Florence Nightingale " ; she be now refer to in her own right , but it take an immensely long time for that to happen . the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) and for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) refer to the contribution make by the Windrush generation . the history of the national health service and of our country ' s black community be intertwine . the people who come on Windrush and other boat , and the successor to they , be now retire and be serve by the national health service , but the people who come after they be still the bedrock of the national health service . they provide the majority of the care that we all expect to receive , but we know that their contribution have not always be well reward . there be still a huge issue today regard how well the national health service serve people of colour — how well it serve black people . that be bring home to I quite starkly by one of the most challenging thing that have confront any of we in our recent history : the covid pandemic . as a cabinet member for health and social care in a London council at the time , I would see the vaccination figure every week among people of different socioeconomic background . consistently , people from an african - caribbean background would be the least likely to be vaccinate ; they would be the most reluctant . a lot of people be say thing like , " oh , this be just because they be prey to misinformation or have irrational fear . all we need to do be put they in front of people of religion , or footballer , and it will change everyone ' s mind . " I find that slightly odd , so I talk a lot to people to try to understand why it be happen . I should say that I go to a London comprehensive school with people who be black , white and from all sort of background . I have always be aware of racism , but I think that thing have get a lot well . from talk to black people about covid and their feeling about the NHS , I realise that thing be really not as good as I have like to pretend to myself . the situation be not drive by a need to educate people or make they aware ; the problem be that there be a lack of trust in the NHS , and it do not come from nowhere . if people consistently get less good access to care , less good treatment and less good outcome , it be not surprising that when they be tell , " trust we , we ' re the NHS , " they say , " well , you haven ' t always obviously have my good interest at heart , so forgive I a certain amount of reluctance to do so . " we have a very serious problem in our country of people get less good healthcare simply because their skin colour be different , which be completely absurd — it sound very childish of I to put it in that way , as it be so ridiculous — and what I see during that time on the council make I think , " how do we address it ? how do we create the trust that we need everybody in this country to have equally in the NHS ? " our Select Committee be try to grapple with those question in different way . the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) mention the issue of black maternal health . she be right that maternal health service be a huge problem . the Health and Social Care Committee recently undertake an inquiry into how to improve black maternal health service . I will talk a little bit about it , because I think what we come out with provide a bit of a road map for transform the NHS ' s treatment of black people across the board , and for improve service across the board . we start by confront the shocking fact that a black woman be 2 . 3 time more likely than a white woman to die during pregnancy or childbirth , or in the post - natal period . as a slight aside , the figure use to be even bad ; it use to be almost five time . it have only get well because everything have get bad for white people as well . there be a huge problem in maternity service in this country generally , but the disparity still remain : black woman be 2 . 3 time more likely to die than white woman — in 2025 , in one of the rich country in the world . we hear repeatedly that the disparity be not the result of social factor , biology or other thing ; it be simply racism — it be not direct , not overt , not think through , but racism be one of the core driver of the disparity . the statistic that black woman be 2 . 3 time more likely to die than white woman be not just a statistic , because behind every number be a woman who do not come home to her family ; a child leave to grow up without their mother ; and a partner , parent or a friend leave devastate by a death that be preventable . we be encourage to be optimistic , so I want to be optimistic against that stark background . I think thing can improve if we want they to improve . the Committee make a number of recommendation on maternity care . they be specific , but as I say , I think they have some universal application . I will share they , and suggest how each can apply to the NHS more broadly to tackle racism , so that everyone get equal care , no matter who they be . first , we hear some really strange thing . for example , we hear evidence about black woman be tell by both black and white doctor , " oh well , you ' re black . you can cope with more pain , can ' t you ? " it be incredible that people be still have that say to they . other problem include symptom not necessarily be identify — thing like skin rash and pre - eclampsia discolouration — because doctor and nurse be not properly train to understand the difference in skin colour , and how to recognise these problem in black people as oppose to white people . the Committee simply think that it would be useful if we have mandatory anti - racism training . that be not train against be racist ; it be training in cultural competency , understand difference — they could be colour difference or cultural difference — and respect all patient , not just some . surely it be the job and the fundamental duty of anyone in public service to be there for everybody , not just some people . we would like the training to be not just mandatory but inform by live experience , not by assumption . at the time some people say to I , " let ' s just get people in front of churchman and churchwoman and then they ' ll take the covid vaccine . " it must not be those sort of assumption ; we must actually listen to people and understand their live experience in order to tackle unconscious bias and racist assumption . the good news be that there be a model for this that work . last night I be at a really interesting presentation by the Caribbean & African Health Network on something call the black health improvement programme . it be commission by the Greater Manchester Health and Social Care Partnership to address the health inequality that be expose by the covid pandemic , and it be now operate in Greater Manchester and Enfield . it offer GPs culturally appropriate education and training , inform directly by talk to the community . it cover institutional racism , health inequality and live experience , and it be ground in reality . we need to look at that and learn from it . we must scale up such programme for use across the whole NHS . the hon . Member speak very powerfully and knowledgeably , in particular about maternity service . I note with interest the maternity service review be kick off by the Government at the moment . do the hon . Member agree that many of the change he be suggest could be implement right now and that we do not need to wait for the outcome of that review before we get start ? the hon . Member make a very good point . I will run through a few more proposal from the maternity report , but they will not surprise member ; they be not radical or new . what would really be radical and new would be if one of these report — I think I have read at least six report about black people get less good treatment from the NHS — have their recommendation implement . that would be radical . we on the Health and Social Care Committee be look forward to the Government ' s response to the report and be hope to see the recommendation implement . if they be implement for maternity care , we hope that they can be apply more broadly . the maternity service development fund have sadly be slash from £ 95 million to £ 2 million . the money have be give to integrate care board to parcel out , but they be all face 50 % admin cut , so maternity service will have to compete with every other local priority . we need dedicated ringfenced budget , and we need budget for area where there be specific racial health inequality , such as condition that affect some people more than other because they be black . I be think of fibroid , for instance , and sickle cell awareness , which I will come to in a minute . I turn to another thing that be essential in the NHS . the Health and Social Care Committee be glad to have the new chair of the NHS , Dr Penny Dash , in front of we be interview before her appointment . she say that one thing that be really important to she be datum , datum , datum — and I agree . however , the extraordinary thing be that ethnicity data collection in the NHS be not very good . but it be not impossible to do . there be some work do on assess disparity in maternal morbidity outcome . it be almost complete in March 2023 under the previous Government , but when the Committee ask Ministers in June 2025 how it be go , we be tell that it be good news and that it be still be develop and be expect within less than three year . that mean it will have take potentially six year to complete something that be mean to be almost finish . this be very slow and unacceptable progress . I be pleased to hear the hon . member highlight some good practice . as a parent , you get slightly obsessive about your child ' s health and tend to google what be go on with they . the NHS website — nhs . uk — have improve monumentally over the year . for instance , when it come to rash it say , " Rashes will present differently on black and brown skin , " and it show picture of how that might look . I be glad that the hon . member highlight good practice . do he think it be possible to lift and shift the good practice we see , such as on the NHS UK website and with the Greater Manchester example he mention , and do that across the board ? absolutely . I think the hon . Member and I be advocate the same thing . I have to say — quick plug here — that the NHS app be quite good . if anyone do not have it , I would sign up and get it . if people do not get it and give feedback , we can not make it any well . I be quite impressed by the app . I be shocked to see how many time I have be to the doctor in recent year , but all the information be there . one way to achieve what the hon . member for Aberdeen North and I want to achieve be by collect well datum on what be go on . we need mandatory data collection . we need to look at death , near miss and complication . we need to report disparity and take action when they be reveal . we also need people to be accountable for take action . we could look at a whole range of area to see the disparity and difference that exist in treatment and outcome between black and white people . we could look at cancer diagnosis timing and survival and mental health , sectioning and treatment , which be a huge issue . we could look at pain management , analgesic prescribing , referral rate to specialist , treatment escalation decision , patient satisfaction and how we measure that , and complaint pattern . we need datum on all these area so that we can address the issue and take action . then we need to look at the workforce . the Government be come out with a workforce plan later this year , which be hugely need . there be a shortage in the work - force in some part of the NHS , in particular maternity service , but the workforce issue be not just about number . it be about have staff who understand and respect patient , and this come back to the cultural issue . it be difficult enough for woman be patronise as a patient , but it be even more difficult for black woman . sadly , my experience as a consultant in a rural part of England be that , shockingly , some patient be still reluctant to see black doctor and nurse . although my hon . friend be talk about the experience of patient , I think we also must consider the attitude of patient towards our staff and the way in which staff be treat by some patient . my hon . friend make a strong point , and I could not agree more . there be some datum out there . hospital trust collect datum each year on how their staff be feel about a whole range of thing . I look at my local hospital trust ' s datum and one question it ask be : " do you feel that you have suffer more discrimination this year from patient and from colleague and manager ? " I have not look for a couple of year , but sadly the last time I look it be get slowly bad . this be definitely an issue . if people be foolish enough to think that somebody ' s skin colour be go to affect their ability to do their job properly , it make it more difficult for staff to provide care to the whole population . black NHS staff need to have safe work environment . they encounter racism , and they should not . it be interesting that you talk about doctor — order . the hon . Member mean " he " not " you " . I be most grateful for the correction , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be interesting that my hon . friend talk about doctor , because honestly there be not that many people in leadership position in the NHS who be black , and that be another issue that need to be address . I have use the word " racism " — as we all have — in a way that be perhaps not easy to do everywhere . I have to say , when I first start become aware of the huge difference there be in how people be likely to experience health service depend on whether they be black or white , I do not feel at all comfortable use the word " racism " . sometimes when people say " structural racism " when talk about racism , people will say , " I be not a racist ! " but that be not what be be talk about , so it be very difficult to enter this conversation . I remember when I be on the council I be once on a big Zoom call with 150 people to discuss the inequality work we be do . a black woman talk a lot about micro - aggression , and I ask she , " when you be talk about micro - aggression , aren ' t you talk about racism ? " she answer , " yes , yes . but you can say that . I can ' t . " so I think it be incumbent on people like I — a white middle - class gentleman of a certain age — to be ally , as many hon . friend and hon . member here be be , and to stand up and talk about these thing and name they for what they be . we can effect change . we can do the radical thing of implement the change that be need , but to do that we need to have leadership that want to actually effect the change . we have find , sadly , that black woman face poor outcome be shape by systemic failing in leadership and accountability as well as in training and data collection . we need senior leader to be hold accountable for racial health inequality . that mean that they need to be aware of they , which mean they need the datum . we need Care Quality Commission inspection to specifically assess equity in care delivery . trust board should be specifically responsible for monitor and address disparity , and performance metric should include equity indicator . that all sound terribly onerous , but it be not . it can become part of the normal way of do thing ; it just have to be introduce at some point . as I say , these be not radical suggestion , but to do they would be radical . indeed , the really radical thing to do — this come out of the Committee — be just to listen properly to the woman need maternity service . I see a terrible programme during covid where a woman be talk about her daughter , who be 20 and have go to see her doctor . she be talk about be in immense pain . the doctor say , " well , black woman have differently shape cervix , so that be probably why . " she die in childbirth . that sort of thing happen all the time ; we just do not talk about it all the time . it have to stop . we need to listen to black patient . black patient talk to we say , " I have pain . I report pain and I report symptom — I just wasn ' t believe . " their concern be dismiss . that pattern appear not just in maternal health service but right across healthcare . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . it be important to highlight the simple thing like listen to people , but we must also get over our inherent reluctance to speak about health inequity when we be speak to each other . prostate cancer , for example affect one in four black man , whereas it impact one in eight white man , partly because we do not discuss the fact that it be more prevalent in black man and we need to conduct diagnosis much early . do he agree that if you be a black man or you have a history of prostate cancer in your family , you should go and get a prostate prostate - specific antigen test as early as possible — as early as 45 ? I will not make reference to my own age or the fact that I have have a test myself . I be grateful to my hon . friend — my youthful friend — for that comment . I could not agree more . when I become aware of this problem back when I be a councillor , we institute a programme to build trust within the black and minority ethnic community in the NHS . as a result , we have hundred of conversation in the community with people from the NHS and with people of colour . one black gentleman , who I think be a little old than 45 — he be probably not far from my own age — go and have a prostate test as a result , and it be find that he have prostate cancer . if he have not have the test , who know what the situation would be these day . I therefore fully support my hon . friend ' s call for everybody to have prostate cancer test . I have have one myself , and fortunately , like he , I think thing be all right . when we get feedback from patient , we need formal mechanism for register that — it should not be do in the typical ad hoc , amateur way — and we need to co - produce the change with the people we be actually mean to be there for . also , when people complain about discriminatory treatment , we need to consider that seriously , and the NHS need to respond in a much more open - hearted , open - handed and open - minded way than I be tell it often do . the Committee do the inquiry and come up with specific recommendation that affect black maternal health , but I think they spread right across the piece of black people not get as good healthcare as they should , and as white people do . I end on a specific example of something quite close to my heart because of friend : sickle cell disease . as we be talk about black history , I would like to pay tribute to Dame Elizabeth Anionwu , a wonderful woman and the UK ' s first sickle cell nurse . she have do so much to educate I and other people and improve service in this country . People may not know much about sickle cell if they be not black . it cause intense pain and organ damage . crudely , cell get shape like sickle , and it can cause stroke ; it can even cause early death . it be often overlook , mainly because it affect black and minority ethnic people . Imperial College healthcare NHS trust be currently run a wonderful programme that serve my constituent in Chelsea and Fulham . it be one of only seven centre in the country pilot what be call a renal haematology triage unit , which be one of those sexy NHS title , but it just mean if a person suddenly get a crisis and need to be see swiftly , they do not have to wait for hour and hour in accident and emergency ; they can get swift pain relief . that be vital for make sure that the problem do not get seriously dangerous seriously quickly . I go to visit it and talk to patient and staff . it be a terrific centre that have make a huge difference to people ' s live , as they be able to go to work and look after their child more easily . it be inspirational — but , sadly , it be a pilot . in the normal world , we do a pilot , we see if it work and , if it do , we try to find the funding long term . often , in the NHS it mean , " we have get a bit of money leave over . what can we do ? " or it mean , " let ' s do a project for a few year and call it a pilot . " we need to keep the funding for those seven project across the country , which be offer urgent , swift pain relief for people with sickle cell , after April . that be one thing that I be work on at the moment . we have to show everybody that they matter equally . we have to build trust . so let we build trust , let we acknowledge the harm that have be do and let we do the work on training , comprehensive datum and workforce issue . let we name racism and tackle it head on . let we listen to black patient and ensure that service for condition such as sickle cell be as important to everybody as they be to just a few . we can not change history — we can recognise it , as my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , who have just leave the Chamber , say — but we can change the future . we have the evidence and the recommendation . we know what need to be do . I have not say anything new or anything that will have shock the House . the only thing that be shocking be that there be often so little willpower to make the obvious and necessary change that be need . I will keep fight for that to happen , and I hope that everyone in the Chamber will fight alongside I . it be an honour to speak in the debate . I be proud to be the son of an irish immigrant . my dad Richard come over to the UK with his family when he be a young boy . they be look for safe accommodation and pay work . I remember he sit I down when I be a young boy , and tell I that his family , when in search of those thing , would often come across two notice : " no Irish " and " No Blacks " . to learn that at such a young age , and to understand that prejudice be so build into our society , fire in I a desire to fight racism . it also continue to shock I , because that be not the distant past , but very recent indeed . this Black History Month , we celebrate the black man and black woman who shape Britain ' s history — Bournemouth ' s too — but we must also remember what many of they be force to endure . I be proud to represent Bournemouth East . Bournemouth be a young upstart — we can compare it with Christchurch , which be 1 , 200 year old , and Poole , which be 800 year old — that be really build from scratch only about 200 year ago . it be make by people who come from London and the home county . it be , and have always be , a melting pot , and it be proud of that . it be a beautiful place to live , work and be , and I be proud that it be such an inclusive place . because Bournemouth be such a young town , black history be build into what Bournemouth have be . I think of Thomas Lewis Johnson , who be bear into slavery in Virginia in 1826 and experience slavery ' s full brutality — physical punishment , harsh labour , the denial of basic human right , and the mental trauma that will have go with all that — but eventually he find his freedom . he become a minister and travel the world preach hope and equality . in the 1890 , he make Boscombe in Bournemouth his home , and he name his house Liberia in tribute to african independence . he become a british citizen in 1900 and , support by a local community who recognise his courage , be able to do such thing as write his autobiography , " Twenty - Eight Years a slave " , in Bournemouth . it tell a story of faith , resilience and humanity . in it , he write , " though my body be confine my spirit remain free , and it be faith that guide I through the dark hour . " I be also think about lilian Bader , who break barrier of her own decade later . when racial discrimination keep people of caribbean heritage out of the armed force , she refuse to accept it . in 1941 she become the first black woman to serve in the Royal Air Force , training as an instrument repairer and rise to act corporal . after the war , she earn a degree , become a teacher and settle in Bournemouth with her family , and that legacy of service continue through her son . she say , " Father serve in the First World War , his three child serve in the Second World War . I marry a coloured man who be in the Second World War , as be his brother who be decorate for bravery in Burma . their father also serve in the First World War . our son be a helicopter pilot , he serve in Northern Ireland . so all in all , I think we ' ve give back more to this country than we ' ve receive . " that legacy of service and that history — that black history — be british history , and it be Bournemouth ' s history . their contribution call we to keep on build a town and a country where everyone ' s contribution be see , value and celebrate . I want to pick up on a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) . it be absurd that we cram black history into a month , and that we do not have a requirement for it to be teach in our curriculum . we rely on teacher — who be already frazzle by their heavy workload , and who have be look for light at the end of the tunnel for so many year — to do the research , and to find the resource and time to teach black history , as well as other history , such as that of the civil right campaign that lead to the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 , the history of gender equality , and LGBT + history . we need to entrench the struggle of our country in the teaching of our curriculum , so that the child we raise know fully , as citizen , what our country have be through , and what its story will be . that be particularly true because , unfortunately , those contribution be be erase . nobody in Bournemouth should feel uncomfortable , unsafe or undervalue , yet I know all too well just how many black and asian member of my community have feel target and exclude . I be think of a recent surgery appointment ; a young black medical professional come and talk about his desire to live in Britain all his life . he say he would finish his shift , and on leave the hospital , he would have to look over his shoulder , because he be concerned about be attack . I hear the same story from an employee at Bournemouth university . I also think of an email that I receive recently from the mum of a lovely young lad I know in Bournemouth call Dan . the message say : " lot of we out here silently vibrate on an axis of vigilance — anxiety , powerlessness , anger — wonder when the violence will touch we and our loved one . " that woman describe herself as a London exile . she move to Bournemouth for a well life and a more tolerant society , and now , in this day and age , she be worried about her young boy have to experience the violence that she flee when she leave London . she say that in London , she see the British National party rampage in the street where she live , and she worry that be come to Bournemouth . it should be no surprise , and no shock , that I , as their Member of Parliament , will say that black life matter . before it be a political movement or a social organisation , it be a statement of fact , and it remain one . black life be important , yet some , in their action and word , seek to cast doubt on that truth . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . he have mention people who have come to this country and contribute greatly . as he and other Members have say , the problem we face be one that we do not think we would see in this day and age . only last week , I post a photograph of myself out door - knock and speak to constituent , and somebody post , " another foreigner represent Wolverhampton . " I grow up be racially attack , include physically , because I wear a turban and because of the colour of my skin , but even so , the comment shock I , because I do not expect to hear it in present time . when I be think of how I would respond to that person , I wonder whether I should point out that 60 % of NHS worker be not bear in this country . as I be formulate a response , somebody respond , " well , why don ' t you stand at the next general election ? " . I think that that be a really good way of counter the comment . do my hon . friend agree that we have to face these issue , and that we need ally — people who be not black — to take part in Black History Month ? that be how we will tackle the racism that people like I still feel . anybody in public service will feel vulnerable , so we need as many people as possible to take part in this movement , and in the celebration of Black History Month . I find my hon . friend ' s word very move , and I appreciate his testimony . that will have be hard to share in the Chamber , but it be so important that he do , and I be sorry that he be go through those experience . I agree with he entirely . I sometimes hesitate to contribute to these debate , because I do not want to take time from colleague who have first - hand , direct experience of what it be like as a black person , but my hon . friend have pick up on a really important point : allyship at this time be crucial . I will do everything I can to stand up for both my hon . friend and the black people I represent , and I know that colleague in this Chamber will do exactly the same . we must stand against racism . on that point , it concern I deeply that we have have a summer of such discontent , which promise to be a long period of unfortunate hatred . fly the flag should unite we , not divide we . one of my early memory be see Linford Christie drape the Union flag around himself after win the olympic gold in 1992 . it be a wonderful moment , yet at present , there be people whose intention in fly the national flag be to exclude . when the intention behind fly the flag be to cheer on our national sport team , it bring pride and belong ; it create the joy and happiness that our country strive for . but when the intention be so deliberately to intimidate , and so consciously to exclude some people in my town of Bournemouth and across our country , it can only ever fuel the rise tide of racism that I know we all in this Chamber and across our country wish to reject . it make no sense to I — indeed , it feel not just wrong and unfair but illogical — that , in some case , the flag be fly in celebration of black and asian footballer , and in other situation , it be fly to make their community feel unwelcome . we should stop that . we should come together . we should unite as one country . let we not merely honour Black History Month in word and speech , perhaps with the announcement of a statue , and with a further debate next year and the year after , in which we commit to do thing . let we take action . let we build a future in which equality be our share legacy . I say that particularly to my constituent in Bournemouth , because we have be rock by a summer of discontent , with frequent protest , which seem to have coincide with many year of feeling lost and hopeless . Bournemouth be a young town , but over the course of its history , it settle into who it be . it be a seaside town , and people know what our industry and our sector be about . in recent year , with austerity and the loss of key employer , the town have lose its way a bit . it be look to tell a different story . it be look to tell a story of inclusion , hope and happiness . just as black history have always be key to Bournemouth ' s history , the contribution of black boy , girl , man and woman will be key to Bournemouth as it find its new story . we will move forward together , unite against racism , and determine to build an equal , fair and just society under one flag . I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister for Equalities , and the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , on their excellent speech , as well as my hon . friend the Members for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) and many other . rather like my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , I sometimes wonder about the appropriateness of speak in a debate like this , but I be delighted that our comment be be accept in the spirit of allyship , which be absolutely how they be intend . I want to celebrate this year ' s Black History Month . it be very relevant in my constituency of Watford , where there be an active and engage black community . I particularly pay tribute to the Watford African Caribbean Association , which be found by Sam Lusack , Randolph Henry and Althea McLean in 1976 , make it one of the old such association in the country . in fact , there be a lovely quote from Althea on the waca website , which I will read , because it be quite inspirational : " let we resolve to keep go regardless of the many challenge , each one of we can do something and together we can achieve . " the association be now lead by Clive Saunders and it do amazing work for the community in the constituency , include provide activity for the over - 50 , a lot of support around sickle cell , which my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) speak about , and community help , advice and engagement . during covid , it do great work as well . we know that black and minority ethnic people be disproportionately impact by covid . clive be a typical representative of an excellent community organisation in that he be always delighted to see I , but he be jolly well go to hold I to account when he do , and we love he dearly for that . I should also like to pay tribute to the chair of Watford borough council , Favour Ezeifedi , who be a fellow councillor of mine for many year . she have overcome adversity and persevere to achieve many great thing locally , and do tremendous work to support young people especially through her church . this year be the 65th anniversary of nigerian independence , and I recently have the pleasure of attend one of several celebration hold in my constituency . the generosity of the event organiser be remarkable , and I be really surprised to find one of my caseworker there with her father . I have not expect she to be present , but she and her father have take their car to the garage opposite the venue for repair , and while they be hang around , the organiser ask whether they would like to join they in their celebration . that be tremendous — an A + for diary management for my caseworker . I would also like to put on the record my support for one Vision in my constituency , which be lead by Enoch Kanagaraj . it have just win a national award for its incredible health work with faith community . it have deep link in the community . as be touch on by my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham , many people be intimidate by go to an NHS setting to receive testing and treatment and so on , but often they will go to their church . one Vision have do tremendous work in bring health and faith together to enable people to be test for diabetes , for example . I also thank Eva Mbiru , a community activist who host spice in Watford , which support woman in the constituency . we must also celebrate the legend that be Luther Blissett from Watford football club . have already give so much to Watford over the year , he and his partner Lauren do incredible work to support the veteran community in my constituency . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate on behalf of my party . I thank hon . member for their powerful , important and wide - range contribution . it be clear that we share a commitment across the House to recognise the achievement of black Britons and to address the challenge that remain . the Commission on Race and Ethnic Disparities conclude that Britain be a model as a multi - ethnic society with share national value , and " a beacon to the rest of Europe and the world " . that be not to ignore some of the issue that have be raise in the Chamber , but to acknowledge rightly our progress and potential . if any country can continue to advance equality of opportunity for black people , it be this one . as have be mention , the Leader of the opposition be the first black woman to lead a major political party in the UK . as we have agree today , black british history be a powerful weapon to challenge racism , tackle underachievement , tackle inequality in health , education and justice , and ensure the economic opportunity that we want and desire for all our constituent . that be draw out by member across the Chamber . turn to the contribution , it be a pleasure to be in this the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , because I remember watch she on the telly on " this Week " . that be my favourite show , and I very much enjoy watch she . it be pertinent and valuable that she draw out the importance of migrant who support our public service , and the disparity and disadvantage in educational outcome that remain for too many black child . the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) rightly raise the maternal health disparity . to respond to the concern she raise that relate to my party ' s tenure , we do launch a maternity disparity taskforce in February 2022 to explore inequality in maternity care in order , vitally , to improve outcome for woman . it focus on disparity face by woman from ethnic minority and those live in deprive area , who see a lack of parity with other . we launch a £ 50 million fund to tackle health inequality in maternity care , as part of our woman ' s health priority of 2024 , to build a consortium to deliver research , which have be raise today , and capacity over the next five year . I hope the Minister will undertake to hold to account other department to ensure that that be build on . I be sure that she will take that opportunity after the debate , especially as it have be mention by member across the Chamber . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , who mention the fact that we co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament , speak bravely and movingly again about the direct racism that she receive . that be abhorrent , unacceptable , unwarranted and unbelievable in this day and age . I love the " I love myself " affirmation — I think I might start tell myself that in the mirror every morning . maybe we should all do so if we need to get away from the kind of rot we get on social medium . I absolutely agree with the point she make about one particular party that be try to take people back to some kind of past and be offer a mirage . it need to pick a side — capitalist , socialist or populist — but it be not a direction that I want to go in . the hon . Member also mention that there be no joy or energy in racism ; it be pure negativity . she might know that I love my music , so I be happy that DJ Love Spoon might be able to make an appearance at her event . the quote that she read about make some noise be exactly right . the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) be not in his place at the moment — Ahem ! oh sorry , he have move — how could I miss he in that jacket ? talk about make some noise , the hon . member ' s jacket have make a splash in the Chamber today . he rightly speak about pride in be black and british , and that be brilliant to hear . the hon . member and other speak about prostate cancer rate for black man . the Prostate Cancer Support Organisation recently hold an event in my patch with the East Grinstead and District Lions club . just last Saturday , more than 1 , 000 man come to the Meridian Hall for the seventh annual event to get check . sometimes it be in those less formal place that people can have conversation that tackle stigma and concern around health . as we have hear from other member , sometimes it be people like Brian and his team start those conversation that give people the confidence to go to the NHS and other more formal structure . that give I the opportunity to gently but I think rightly challenge the man ' s and woman ' s health strategy . this be not just about waiting list ; it be about real intervention and change for people . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) mention the scottish word for " cuddle " . the Welsh word , " cwtsh " , be quite a new one for I . she speak about everyday miracle . I think there be a danger , in all this negativity , that we miss those everyday miracle in our constituency . that be not to mention the miraculousness of dentistry over the decade — over history — and how vital those people have be to we . the hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) rightly spend much of his time reflect on the value of our Select Committees and of address the outcome for black people in the NHS . I urge he to work with his party on the issue of birth and woman ' s health . the Government rightly say that they be commit to the woman ' s health strategy . again , I implore minister to remain committed to work together on that , because we know what a difference it can make . the hon . Gentleman speak about be radical — he say that be radical be about implementation . they say that the first iteration of policy be operation , so let we get this go so that it can really make change . there be so many change in NHS England . rightly , we be all take a forensic look at that , but there be a lack of interest in outcome for Wales , and a lot of money be go in direction that we might not always be comfortable with , so let we use this opportunity to challenge inequality . the Minister for Equalities mention the ethnicity pay gap reporting . it be vital that we fully understand the scrutiny and consider potential legislation . I know that for the hon . member for Brent East — I hope that I can call she my hon . friend — this be so personal . October be Breast Cancer Awareness Month , and many of we will have be wear pink on various day and highlight event across Parliament . woman from all background need real advice . we talk about stigma around prostate cancer and black man ' s health , but we also need to ensure that for woman there be conversation about breast health and breast cancer . sadly , we be still see poor breast cancer outcome for woman in ethnic minority community . breastcancernow . org have a brilliant symptom checker for every woman to use . when I be work with Wellbeing of Women on issue relate to the menopause for black woman , it strike I that the outcome and workplace experience be still too wide - ranging . this be a great opportunity to raise those issue . the hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) mention " no Blacks , no irish " sign . my dad be the main contractor for Brighton and Hove council in the ' 70 and ' 80 , and he employ many irish people . in fact , I think that most people speak with an irish accent . it be quite a surprise to I grow up that there be a Sussex accent , which be remarkably different . I remember those day of " Auf Wiedersehen , Pet " and so on . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . that be a real experience for family and it shape people . I thank he for share that . the hon . member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) highlight local organisation , trust , and the approach of church — that be important . the Hope church in East Grinstead do great work in my patch , particularly on job search and help man in particular not to feel alone . to conclude , let we work with energy in Black History Month to boost real opportunity across society and produce real outcome , real change and real understanding . I say that MP stand not for Member of Parliament but for " most persistent " , because our job be to stand up for the voiceless . we must confront racism and make a direct difference . by be true to the theme of this Black History Month , which be " Standing Firm in Power and Pride " , and through our strength , resilience and leadership in this House and across our community , we will see real change . that change lie in all our hand and will happen by we work together . to wind up for the Government , on her first outing as a Minister , I call Taiwo Owatemi . it be an honour to speak in today ' s debate . we have celebrate 60 year of change , and we have speak honestly about the range of challenge face and to be overcome as we go forward . before respond to some of the point raise today , I would like to pay tribute to those who make up the most diverse Parliament ever . when the Race Relations Act be pass in 1965 , Parliament look very different . there be zero ethnic minority mps and 234 few woman sit on these Benches . it be a testament to how we have grow as a nation that so many group be now represent in the House . my grandmother could never have imagine that her granddaughter would one day speak from the Front Bench of the House of Commons , close a debate on race and equality , so it truly be an honour to be here with everyone today . I have listen intently and I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their thoughtful and heartfelt contribution to this important debate . one theme in particular have stand out : the power of storytelling . it be through story that we understand our past , give meaning to our present and inspire other to build a well future . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for speak passionately about the theme of this Black History Month : " Standing Firm in Power and Pride " and " Legacies of Action : understand 60 year of change and challenge " . we have hear many story point to the importance of history , and about crucial issue that I would like to address . the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , raise the Windrush compensation scheme . we recognise the importance of speed up the process and the role of the Windrush commissioner in ensure the delivery of the compensation scheme . since the end of August this year , the Government have pay over £ 116 million to over 3 , 000 applicant ; 93 % of applicant have receive final decision . hon . member raise maternal health — an issue that , as a young black mother , I be very passionate about . I be glad to represent a Government who aim to tackle racial inequality for both woman and baby . frankly , it be indefensible that race should have any bearing on how we bring child into the world . we have launch an independent investigation into NHS maternity and neonatal service to understand the systemic issue around why so many woman , baby and family experience unacceptable care . the investigation will deliver an interim recommendation by December , and publish further finding by spring 2026 . I thank the Minister for talk about health inequality in the black community . do she agree that we need to look at how we use AI system , so that we do not automate bias and discrimination through their use ? I thank my hon . friend for the point she rightly make . it be essential that we look at the impact of AI when address health inequality . tackle persistent health inequality be a key aim of the Government ' s mission to ensure that the NHS be fit for the future . we be determined to ensure that one ' s health outcome be not determine by ethnicity or where one live . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) for the work he do on the Health and Social Care Committee , along with my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) . sadly , the issue of the workplace harassment and abuse of black and minority ethnic NHS worker be a key issue raise by NHS leader . I know the Government be work hard to address those challenge . on the issue of reparation , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) for her contribution and work . the Minister for Equalities have a number of valuable conversation during her visit to Bristol yesterday about the need to ensure an honest conversation on the impact of our country ' s past . that also include a discussion on the reparative future programme at the University of Bristol , which be look at systemic injustice relate to transatlantic slavery . the entire House be concerned about the educational outcome of working - class child in general , but do the Minister accept that if we only ever talk about white working - class child , black parent and black community may believe that their child be be ignore ? I thank the right hon . member for raise that point . the Government be look at how to address educational outcome for all group . it be heartbreaking to hear from my hon . friend the Members for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) and for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) about their experience of racism . racism be completely unacceptable and have no place in our society , and any instance in which it occur must be treat with the utmost seriousness . that be why we have a strong legal framework in place to deal with the perpetrator of racist and other form of hate crime , and we expect the perpetrator of this abhorrent offence to be bring to justice . do the Minister agree that not only do we need to be not racist , but we need to be anti - racist , in order to tackle the situation in society right now ? absolutely . we have to be proactive in speak out against racism in any area or situation in society in which we see it . it be disappointing and concern to hear about of the police incident raise by my hon . friend the Member for Brent East . there be no space for racism in police or for intolerant policing . one reason I like the Black History Month debate be that it provide an opportunity to hear from member across the House about the wonderful trailblazer in their constituency , in both the past and present . it be wonderful to hear from the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) about her constituent Bertha , Ify and Jane — about all the work they do and the contribution they be make to make Aberdeen North a well place for all . it be also wonderful to hear from my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) about Johnny and Noor ; from my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) about Lilian and her family ' s legacy of service ; and from my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) — I really hope he enjoy the good jollof rice in the world . it be good to hear from he about the contribution from Clive , Councillor Favour and Enoch from one Vision . we can not have a Black History Month debate without recognise the trailblazer in this House . the Mother of the House , the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington , be the first black female MP , and she pave the way for other young girl , like myself . I always feel incredibly lucky to be able to sit on these Benches with she — something that I never think I would be able to achieve . it be also wonderful for this year ' s Black History Month debate to be chair by Madam Deputy Speaker , who be the first ethnic minority Deputy Speaker . it would not be right of I to speak about the contribution make by trailblazer in this House without mention our own Serjeant at arm , who be previously in the Chamber . he be the first black holder of his post in its history of over 600 year . he be appoint in 2019 , and move to this country in the 1990 after be bear in Nigeria . in conclusion , Madam Deputy Speaker — will the hon . Lady give way ? I be happy to . I just want to say that most of the thing the hon . Lady have say from the Dispatch Box be brilliant , and I believe every word , apart from that she be a mother — she look so young . that may be outside of the scope of this debate . Minister , you may wish to respond . I will take the compliment — I thank the shadow Minister very much . as this debate have make clear , this nation have a rich and proud history of break down barrier and opening door for everyone to thrive — one that speak directly to this year ' s Black History Month theme , " legacy of Action " . this be our legacy , and our action remain ongoing , beyond the measure that my hon . friend the Minister for Equalities and I have set out today . we should not be satisfied with where we be ; we still have a long way to go . our fight for equality be urgent , and it continue . there have always be those who seek to create division — who do not wish to see community not just survive , but thrive together . they will tell we that incorporate different type of people into our nation be something new that have be force on we . to they , I say this : tell it to the black dockworker , sailor and business owner of 18th - century Liverpool and Bristol , who build community in the face of prejudice ; tell it to the Windrush generation , who help rebuild Britain after the war and make this country home ; and tell it to the campaigner , artist and leader of today , who continue to drive change and enrich every part of our national life . this be Britain — diverse , determined and proud . we have thrive because of that diversity , and we would not be the nation we be without it . let we tell those story and write new one — story of black Britons who have shape , build and enrich this country . that task be as vital now as it have ever be , and with our first black president of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art , the great David Harewood , together with the brilliant Cynthia Erivo , I be sure that the future of our country ' s storytelling be bright and bold . finally , I thank all member , not only for their powerful contribution to today ' s debate but for the work they be do across the country throughout Black History Month . later this week , I will be join by journalist Trish Adudu , musician Sandra Godley OBE and Detective Inspector Andrew Mitcham at the University of Warwick , help to break down barrier and open door to opportunity for the next generation . I know that many member be also mark Black History Month in their constituency , share story , championing change and help to build a fair , more inclusive Britain for we all . it be that energy , dynamic enthusiasm and sincerity that give I hope — hope that the fight for equality will not only be continue , but that it will one day be win . well do . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Black History Month . decarbonisation of Cement Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jade Botterill . ) cement may not grab headline , but it quite literally hold up our country . virtually every hospital , school , bridge and home be build use cement . without a thriving cement industry , it will not be possible to deliver the renewal our nation need and the 1 . 5 million home the Government have commit to build . derbyshire be the proud home of Britain ' s cement and lime industry . this critical material have be make there for generation , sustain family , support our local economy and make the midland one of our country ' s great industrial powerhouse . today , Derbyshire and neighbouring Staffordshire account for around 40 % of all the cement and lime produce in the UK , and the industry support more than 2 , 000 high - quality and well - pay job in our community . however , cement also produce significant carbon emission , with around 7 % of all carbon emission globally come from cement — more than come shipping and aviation combine . to put that in scale , in the UK , cement produce more carbon emission than the entire city of Birmingham . we simply can not tackle the climate crisis , safeguard our planet for future generation and deliver a net zero economy without tackle this issue . at the same time , our UK cement industry face increase pressure , with UK cement production now at its low level since 1950 and import cement make up an increase share of the market . Decarbonisation should never mean deindustrialisation , and without action , we risk lose high - skilled job across the midland and the north and an industry that be vital to our nation . it be therefore essential that we invest in new technology and make the UK , and derbyshire in particular , world - lead producer of clean , green cement . many of these technological innovation be already be pioneer right here in Britain . for example , Cambridge Electric Cement have develop a mean of recycle use concrete back into cement , and the Institution of Structural Engineers note that nine british - base cement innovation be work to take capture carbon and store it within the concrete itself . I be also pleased to recently meet with Coolbrook , which be develop a heater that will heat air up to 1 , 700 ° c without burn fossil fuel . that would allow cement plant to replace the fuel use for burn with electric heating and reduce the amount of co2 produce by between 30 % to 40 % . I encourage the Government to do all they can to support those emerge technology and to use their research and development funding to ensure that such exciting innovation become commercially viable . however , even if we reduce emission from energy to zero , two - third of cement emission be the by - product of the chemical process use to produce cement , and these emission can not be cut without carbon capture and storage . that mean that even if all the exciting development I have mention succeed , we can not achieve zero - carbon cement without carbon capture and storage . indeed , the fact that carbon dioxide be create as part of the chemical process use to make cement mean that only carbon capture can eliminate the majority of emission from its production . to be clear , these project have nothing to do with prolong the use of fossil fuel . it be entirely about ensure that we can safeguard this vital and important industry and protect the secure , high - quality , unionised job that be root in local community such as the Hope valley . without carbon capture and storage , we either have to stop produce cement or we fail to decarbonise — neither be an option that we can afford . that be why Peak Cluster be so important . base in the Hope valley , it be the world ' s large cement decarbonisation project , with the potential to decarbonise 40 % of the UK ' s cement and lime production . under this project , carbon produce in derbyshire through the production of cement will be capture and transport to Morecambe Net Zero , which will repurpose the Morecambe bay gas field into a permanent and secure carbon storage facility , capable of store more than 1 billion tonne of CO2 . that be a real example of how a just transition can protect worker and community while reduce carbon emission . this world - lead innovation will also deliver major economic benefit for our country , support more than 13 , 000 job and attract around £ 5 billion of private investment . it also have the potential to remove more than 3 million tonne of co2 each year , equivalent to a quarter of all the emission create in Derbyshire and Staffordshire every single year . that be why I be delighted that , in July , the National Wealth Fund announce that it would make its first venture into carbon capture and invest £ 28 million in Peak Cluster . this historic step demonstrate how the National Wealth Fund can play a major role in crowd in private investment and create the good , clean job of the future . it be estimate that every £ 1 of public investment in the project will deliver £ 4 of benefit . this be an economic opportunity that we can not waste . however , the job be not do yet . the investment from the National Wealth Fund be hugely welcome , but it be only the start . for the project to reach final investment decision and unlock billion of pound in private capital , industry need one thing above all : certainty . at present , there be no clear route to market for carbon capture and storage project beyond the track 1 and track 2 cluster . without a define framework for project like Peak Cluster , private investor be leave in limbo , which risk stall progress just when momentum be build . we have see too many example in the past where project receive initial support from Government , only to stall because the next stage of policy never follow through . this can not be another one of those case . I have two specific question for the Minister . first , will he confirm that the Government will establish a clear route to market for industrial carbon capture project beyond track 1 and track 2 ? establish a clear route to market would give investor and operator confidence that a final investment decision on Peak Cluster and Morecambe Net Zero will be make within this Parliament . the soon that be do , the soon business will have the certainty need to invest , and the soon all of we will benefit from the growth that such investment will deliver . secondly , will the Minister commit to introduce a contract for difference - style model for carbon capture to ensure that project like Peak Cluster have the revenue certainty need to attract private capital ? contract for difference play a key role in enable the widespread growth in renewable energy , and can also play a major role in support the growth of carbon capture technology . however , invest in clean cement here in the UK will be of no use if our builder import more polluting cement from abroad . the amount of import cement have triple over the last 20 year . not only do import cement have a high carbon footprint , but the use of such cement undermine our british industry . the Government ' s announcement that they will introduce a carbon border adjustment mechanism be therefore very welcome news , and demonstrate that this Labour Government will not allow our industrial industry to be offshore . furthermore , builder must also be incentivise to use clean , green cement , and this will only be do if there be clear incentive to do so . it be therefore time for we to legislate to ensure that all development report on how much carbon be release through the production and use of construction material . mandatory embody carbon reporting be need to drive down the emission release from construction . mandatory reporting would provide consistency to the construction industry , which must currently deal with a patchwork of local regulation , and reporting would also help stimulate the growth of low - carbon building material . only sufficient demand will enable low - carbon technology to develop at scale , and this demand can only be achieve through appropriate regulation . the EU have plan to introduce mandatory embody carbon report from 2028 , and to set project limit on embody carbon from 2030 . when we leave the EU , it be make clear that we would not reduce our environmental and climate standard , and I encourage the Government to align with the EU . the introduction of embody carbon requirement in the EU also mean that if we fail to decarbonise cement in the UK , our cement industry could be lock out of such market , as builder will be require to use only low - carbon product in construction . it be time once again to forge our future " in the white heat of technology " . by act now , we can safeguard our historic industry , support our Government ' s mission for growth , and deliver a more sustainable and green world . it be time to be ambitious and to back british industry . it be , after all , desirable that the material that build Britain be make in Britain . I finish by return to Peak Cluster . after all , whatever other positive intervention we make , simple chemistry mean that we can not cut the majority of emission from cement without carbon capture . if we do not invest now , we will simply kick this can down the road , allow other country to move ahead of we and develop this emerge industry before we do . today , I once again encourage the Minister to invest in job , british industry and decarbonisation . that can be do only if we establish a clear route for carbon capture project not include in track 1 and track 2 , and I encourage the Minister to establish such a route as quickly and urgently as possible . I call the Minister . I see he be very ably support by Edmund Ward , whom I recall from my career history . I be so pleased that , due to a quirk in the timing , we have almost two hour for the discussion of cement . I will endeavour to make the good use of the time available . I very much thank my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) for raise the issue of cement manufacture in the UK . I share his concern about the current level of cement production both for Derbyshire and for the UK . I hope that by the time I resume my place on the Treasury Bench , he may feel a certain sense of reassurance give the priority I be personally give to this issue . he make the case admirably for the cement sector base on the job and the impact on the local economy . I will endeavour to add to that economic argument by outline the importance of the cement sector to the UK more broadly . Breedon ' s Hope cement work in my hon . friend ' s constituency be the large in the UK . it support 270 job in his constituency and contribute £ 60 million to the local economy . in my role as Minister for Industry , I intend to be as vocal and visible an advocate of british industry as he be for the industry in his own constituency . to be clear , my objective as Minister for Industry be to ensure that we secure a sustainable and prosperous future for this UK heavy industry . before I talk more broadly about the challenge of decarbonisation , I will briefly set out the role that the cement sector play in the UK . cement be of course an incredibly ancient material , which be develop and use extensively across Europe by the Romans . however , it would be wrong to think of it as a material of the past . it be subject to constant innovation , as we hear from my hon . friend . if you will forgive I for say so , Madam Deputy Speaker , cement be quite literally the foundation of our modern economy . it be the essential ingredient use to construct everything from home and hospital to bridge , school , road and energy infrastructure . without cement , there would be no new housing development or transport network . that be why we recognise in our industrial strategy that the cement industry be an essential ingredient in our eight key growth - drive sector and part of our foundation industry . some of this Government ' s big and most ambitious delivery programme depend on the strength and durability of cement , include our plan to build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament and the development of our clean energy infrastructure such as nuclear and offshore wind . however , it be also an economically important sector in its own right , contribute £ 340 million in gross value add and employ 1 , 500 people in high - skilled , high - wage job , with a wage premium 24 % above the national median wage and 6 % to 8 % above manufacturing benchmark . indeed , business in place where there be cement kiln be often the most highly productive , with the most highly pay job . my hon . friend outline the challenge of decarbonisation , and we need to find a way for the UK cement industry to cut emission in the future . he mention that it be a very energy - intensive energy , and he rightly point out that the challenge in decarbonise cement be due to the calcination process in the manufacture of clinker . I have no extreme desire to turn the House into a lecture theatre , but it may be helpful to dwell for a moment on the chemistry of cement production . the process involve heat limestone to over 1 , 450 ° C to transform it into lime . in and of itself , this process release the carbon dioxide that have be trap in the limestone for millennia , and two third of the emission be from the calcination process . they be an inevitable by - product of the cement production process , and they can not be abate by fuel switching . that problem be recognise a few year ago by none other than Bill Gates . we imagine that Bill Gates go to very exciting party in California , but maybe they be not as exciting as we might think . he say that when he be at a barbecue with friend talk about decarbonisation , as they often do , his friend say to he , " Bill , decarbonise steel be very difficult , " and I know that be true from my career . he always say to they , " if you think decarbonise steel be difficult , decarbonise cement be almost impossible . " this be a challenge that even Bill Gates find it difficult to address . however , the UK have always be a pioneer in overcome such challenge . as we have hear , many technology have be develop in the UK , and I will expand on those in a moment . the UK have be a pioneer in cement , too . the invention of Portland cement 200 year ago by William Aspdin spark a construction boom that shape the country that we know today . that be what we need to harness now : innovation to face the challenge of decarbonisation . I will outline some of the progress that the industry and Government be make . there be , essentially , three opportunity for we in decarbonisation . the first be reformulate cement , so that it intrinsically have less carbon . the second be reduction — use less cement on each construction project . there be a number of way of do that . the third , which my hon . friend describe extensively , be carbon capture , which be a good place to start . my hon . Friend speak of the Peak Cluster carbon capture utilisation and storage project , which be partly locate in his constituency . as he mention , the project have be develop outside the Government ' s carbon capture usage and storage cluster sequencing process . it be an important project that aim to store over 3 million tonne of carbon dioxide from the cement and lime factory that support job across Derbyshire , Staffordshire and the north - west . it could potentially decarbonise around half of our cement industry . my hon . Friend mention the investment of £ 28 . 6 million secure from the National Wealth Fund , alongside £ 31 million of private sector investment . just this week I meet not only the Peak Cluster team , but Sumitomo , which be one of the large private sector investor in the propose pipeline . I look forward to further conversation with the Peak Cluster project to help bring this initiative to fruition . he ask I about contract for difference . I recognise that there could be a role for contract for difference . it be an area that I would be prepared to look at more closely in future . reformulation be about change the recipe for cement , so that there be less embody cement in each tonne produce . there be a number of other cut - edge project at various stage of development , although none have be fully commercialise . I allude early to the historical role of cement . again , this be not an entirely new endeavour . I mention that the Romans be particularly strong in the development of cement . the Pantheon in Rome have a marvellous dome , over 43 metre in diameter , which be construct from three different formulation . there be limestone in the heavy cement at the bottom , and pumice stone at the top . ultimately , change the clinker that we use be at the heart of how we reduce carbon emission in cement . I will outline a few project that be ongoing . first of all , there be Material Evolution ' s MevoCem green cement project . it be work with global building material company CRH , and have a pilot production facility in Wrexham that use alkali fusion technology to produce cement at ambient temperature , with no heat and use industrial by - product . Reclinker , formerly Cambridge Electric Cement — another project my hon . friend mention — use electric arc furnace slag and demolition waste to reduce clinker . both project begin their experimental and pilot work at the Materials Processing Institute . Madam Deputy Speaker , if you refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , you will see that I work there in the past ; I have work on one of those project , and support another . there be also Ecocem ' s ACT , or activate cementitious technology . it be a low - clinker cement include limestone filler — this take we back to that original initiative in ancient Rome — which be chemically activate to produce a strong , durable and low - emission product . today , I meet one of the company director when I visit the amt laboratory in can Town . you may think , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I do nothing other than talk to people in the cement industry , so interested be I in this technology . however , it be not just the technology that we need ; we also need improvement in standard . develop cement be no good if we can not use it , and we can use it only if we have confidence in its application in the long term . I be pleased to learn that industry be work on this , have develop a Flex 350 standard , which aim to be part 3 of bs 8500 . that should hopefully give insurer confidence , and enable builder and designer to use some of these new material . Innovate UK , as my hon . Friend mention , have support many of these product ; in fact , it have be overwhelm by application for new cement technology . between the cement technology and the reduction in cement that I mention , we could reduce carbon dioxide emission per tonne and overall by around 40 % . of course , that leave a residual amount for which carbon capture and storage , either through a pipeline or some other transport network , would be require . let we turn to the economic opportunity of cement . the pioneering work I have refer to be not just about cut emission and protect our environment ; we should not be blind to the huge economic opportunity . in 2023 , the UK consume just over 11 million tonne of cement , but we produce only 7 million tonne ourselves . the remainder , around 30 % , be import from primarily european country , include France , Spain , Portugal and Ireland . this be quite a new situation , as it be usual for the UK to produce the cement that we need in our own economy . cement be very heavy , and it be expensive to transport . I see this as a lost opportunity to capture additional economic value for the UK . let I put it this way : if we produce domestically what we currently import , we would need to increase production by half . a 50 % growth rate in the UK cement industry be conceivable ; it would mean around five additional cement plant in the country . between they , they would create around 750 job and £ 170 million in gross value add , and would eliminate nearly half a billion pound in the trade deficit on cement that we have in 2023 . low - carbon cement also open up new market opportunity . the Norwegian Brevik cement plant be now operate with carbon capture . it have sell out of its low - carbon cement in 2025 , and have a grow order book . I recognise that there be an important role here for not just technology but people . I welcome the support of the Institute of Concrete Technology , and I hope to be able to work with the Institution of Chemical Engineers . I place a very high value on the role that our professional institution can play in help people in our industry to transfer their skill across to new green technology . I turn to how the Government be support the industry . I start by acknowledge that the previous Government fail to recognise these opportunity . they neglect our heavy industry . by fail to invest in clean energy infrastructure , they leave we dependent on fossil fuel and uniquely expose to high energy price , which lead to a bill crisis across society . heavy industry , include cement , be neglect . the previous Government accept that decarbonisation mean de - industrialisation ; this Government do not . through our industrial strategy , we be take action to reduce industrial electricity price . we be consult on uplift the network charge compensation scheme , a component of the british industry supercharger , from 60 % to 90 % , and we will publish a response shortly . the Government will also introduce the british industrial competitiveness scheme from 2027 , which will reduce electricity bill by up to 25 % for over 7 , 000 eligible british business . the Government be also commit to deliver a UK carbon border adjustment mechanism to tackle the risk of carbon leakage , and we have publish draft legislation to enable we to deliver it by January 2027 . that mechanism will ensure that highly trade carbon - intensive product from overseas , include product in the cement sector , face a comparable carbon price to UK good . I understand that it will give industry the confidence that it need to invest in the UK . I be ask today to ensure that the cement industry face a level playing field , and the carbon border adjustment mechanism will contribute to that . I know that my hon . friend be also interested in emission reporting . the Government have just consult on an embody emission reporting framework , which will simplify and harmonise exist private sector datum and instil more confidence in the datum that be be produce . it aim to help producer with measuring , report and verify the embodied emission of industrial product in a more standardised and comparable way . the objective of that be to remove information failure and support buyer in make informed purchasing decision . the Government be determined to mark a departure from the de - industrialisation of the past . we know how vital heavy industry such as cement be to our economy , to our most important building project , and for thousand of well - pay job across the country . the Prime Minister himself have speak of our determination to renew Britain through investment in new home , infrastructure and public service . that renewal will also mean a re - industrialisation of part of our country that suffer from factory closure and a lack of investment under the previous Government . a new age of industrial renewal have begin . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate , and I look forward to work with he and the cement industry on how we can secure investment and grow the industry in the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .