Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — CPTPP : small and medium - sized enterprise what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership on small and medium - sized enterprise in the UK . the CPTPP be one of the major benefit of Brexit . it have the potential to deliver billion of pound to our economy and benefit small business across the UK . the deal deliver low tariff , reduce red tape , and cut - edge digital provision that directly support small business to trade more . it have an SME chapter commit all country to make the agreement accessible for sme . I know that will be welcome news for my hon . friend ahead of Small Business Saturday . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . it be great news that we be progress membership of CPTPP and I welcome what she say about sme . many sme will be new to export and need expert advice . will she outline what particular plan there be to help small business ? we will ensure that our support offer for sme will help firm build their capability to import and export under our free trade agreement . we have start prepare for CPTPP enter into force . we will be produce write guidance on gov . uk to ensure business be equip with the knowledge they need to access those opportunity . specifically , our export support service , network of international trade adviser , export academy , and in - market support service will also help business to access opportunity in CPTPP market . in my constituency of Strangford sme be an integral , core part of create job , put wage into pocket , and ensure that people can progress and learn more trade . we want to be part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland push for the CPTPP . what can the Secretary of State do to help I and my business in Strangford to be a part of that and to move forward ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have the Northern Ireland investment summit a few month ago . we meet lot of business and investor who talk about how they want to take advantage of these market . in fact , we have have one of the first big investor into a factory in Belfast . what I can do be help he with some of the material we have around the export academy and the export support service , which he can hand out to business in his constituency who want to find out more . I call the shadow Minister . for UK business to benefit from agreement like the cptpp , we must have a clear plan to boost small business export . labour have a plan to remove export barrier , with clear information and support . that be in stark contrast to the Government ' s approach , which have be a catalogue of failure , include the recent fiasco with the Government ' s export website , which be so deficient that firm be force to seek essential information from foreign Government website . what immediate step will the Department take to provide some stability and ensure UK business can excel in export ? I think the hon . Gentleman might be talk about something that happen three year ago , which we fix . he talk about the export support service website . business have actually be praise it . [ interruption . ] business have be praise it ; they very much have be . we have an expert toolkit , which have be develop by business and trade official . what be interesting be that all he say be that Labour have a plan to remove export barrier . we have actually be remove export barrier . labour talk about a plan with no detail . no one be take it seriously at all . the conservative party be the party that represent business in the House of Commons . Audit and Corporate Governance Reform what recent progress her Department have make on bring forward legislative proposal on reform of audit and corporate governance . we remain committed to reform . significant reform have already be deliver to the Financial Reporting Council to strengthen its capability and drive up audit quality . the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland have brand the Government ' s decision to leave the audit and governance reform Bill out of the King ' s Speech as a lost opportunity and a huge blow to the interest of UK business and the public . the Government have be promise the Bill since 2021 . will they reconsider that backward step and make the UK ' s corporate regulatory framework fit for purpose in the 21st century ? time and again , opposition party seek to wrap business up in red tape , whereas conservative be keen to cut red tape . consultation with business reveal concern about impose additional reporting requirement , while the Government be look to simplify and streamline exist requirement . this week , the Business and Trade Committee take evidence from Wilko . business collapse such as that of Wilko , Carillion , Thomas Cook and Patisserie Valerie have be a consequence of failure in the audit process , cost people their job and hurt investor and supplier . Audit reform be recommend by the then Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee in 2019 , and the Government offer to bring forward a draft Bill . I know the Minister want to reduce red tape , but do he agree that some form of action be now pretty urgent ? I be delighted to give the Select Committee evidence on Wilko . the administration report on Wilko be continue and clearly we need to see the finding , but investigation so far have not show that director misconduct play an instrumental part in Wilko ' s failure , although I think it be clear to all concerned that there be failure in management that lead to the company ' s demise . I call the Scottish National party spoke - person . how strange the change from minor to major in that response . financial transparency and accountability be essential component of economic stability . for three year now , the Government have be promise legislation and improve check on company finance , but they have repeatedly fail to deliver . how can the Minister justify leave the audit and governance Bill out of the King ' s Speech , when it be support by business , regulator and auditor alike ? we work very closely with the Financial Reporting Council . no one can deny that the FRC have change its approach completely and be now a much more effective regulator . Sir Jon Thompson do a fantastic job when he be there , and the current chief executive , Richard Moriarty , and chair , Jan du Plessis , be follow his work . we be confident that the frc can make sure that the UK ' s corporate regime work effectively , without tie business up in red tape . fire and Rehire what step she be take to prevent the use of fire and rehire practice . what step she be take to prevent the use of fire and rehire practice . the Government consult on a draft statutory code of practice on fire and rehire early this year . the Government response and the final version of the code will be publish in spring next year . the code set out employer ' responsibility when seek to change contractual term and condition of employment , and be design to ensure that dismissal and re - engagement be use only as the last resort . the very fact that only last week P & O Cruises feel able to say it would impose new contractual term on worker through fire and rehire tactic show that some employer still feel that they can use these tactic with impunity , in spite of the Government ' s promise to clamp down on they . I thank the Minister for his answer , but be there any way he could bring in the legislation more urgently , so that we can protect our worker properly ? I agree with the sentiment behind the hon . Lady ' s question in term of bring legislation forward as quickly as possible . of course , we have to get this right . I have to say that P & O be not a fire and rehire situation ; it be a fire - only situation , which be strongly condemn by this government and by many other stakeholder , and a civil investigation be ongoing into the matter surround that case . but yes , the hon . Lady be right , and we be keen to get the new statutory code of practice in place as soon as possible . we expect that to be in spring next year , and once it be in force , the employment tribunal can increase employee ' compensation by up to 25 % when an employer fail unreasonably to comply with the code . last week , concern be raise that the Carnival group be make provision to fire and rehire hundred of staff work on P & O Cruises and Cunard Line , revive memory of last year , when P & O Ferries sack over 800 of its employee and replace they with agency labour , while the Government sit back and let it happen . do the Minister agree that the only way to provide worker with the security they deserve be by legislate to outlaw fire and rehire tactic once and for all ? if not , it be time the Government come clean with the british public and admit that they will always side with bad boss . that be not the case at all . we take these matter very seriously , but we do not think that completely ban fire and rehire be the right thing to do because there be some situation in which company need to restructure quickly . we think that employee ' proper consultation right should be observe . where they be not observe and where an employer do not follow the statutory code of practice , employment tribunal can impose a significant uplift on redundancy payment . we think that be the good way to deal with this , by strike a balance between company and their worker . I call the shadow Minister . fire and rehire be rife in this country . research publish by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development find that , between March 2020 and July 2021 , 43 , 000 employer change their employee ’ contract through fire and rehire technique . the Government promise in March 2022 that they would take action follow the P & o scandal , and we now learn that it will be a full two year since that time before anything actually change . give the propensity for use fire and rehire tactic , can the Minister tell we how many employee he estimate will have have their contract change through fire and rehire in that two - year period ? I do not have that number to hand . we want to strike a balance between employer and their workforce . we condemn what p & O do . we need to bring in new measure on fire and rehire , and we have commit to do that . a consultation be clearly need to make sure those provision be fair on both business and worker . that be what we be do right now , and we intend to bring those provision before the House next spring . high Street Outlets what step she be take to encourage business to open outlet on high street . what step she be take to encourage business to open outlet on high street . in addition to small business rate relief , under which business with a rateable value of less than £ 12 , 000 pay no business rate whatsoever , in his autumn statement the Chancellor announce a further business rate support package , worth £ 4 . 3 billion over the next five year , to support small business and the high street . my constituent in Flitwick have be dismay over the past few year as their high street have be gradually hollow out , lose much - love business and , recently , both their post office and banking facility . sadly , that be far too familiar for people in town and village across my constituency , where business be weigh down by high cost pressure and a business rate system that no long seem fit for purpose or fair . when will the Government commit to bring forward the comprehensive business rate reform that my business be cry out for , so that we can get back to revitalise , much - love high street ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and welcome he to his place in the House . of course , we be very concerned about the high street . the pressure on the high street be largely cause by change consumer habit , but the Government have step in to ease pressure , such as through the £ 20 billion energy bill support scheme and the £ 17 billion business rate package . the hon . Gentleman talk about completely scrap the current business rate system , which Labour have commit to do , but it be incumbent on Labour to set out how it will replace the £ 25 billion that business rate currently add to the Exchequer . what be the solution ? it be not right for he or other simply to say they will scrap that £ 25 billion without set out how they will replace it . the vanishing of Debenhams , Wilko and Paperchase have leave huge hole in our town centre — I have lose a Wilko in both Ealing and Acton . analysis show that the incentivisation of out - of - town retail be the culprit . Labour have a five - point plan to revive our high street , put community first . what be the Government do about all this ? I do not accept that , although out - of - town shopping can put pressure on the high street . local authority have to be very careful when they give planning consent for out - of - town shopping centre that could put pressure on the high street . that be clearly an important part of the planning process , but it be not the responsibility of central Government , of course . I would be interested to see that five - point plan , but if it include the scrapping of business rate , which raise £ 25 billion , I ask the Labour Front Bench team once again — I have yet to receive an answer — where be that money come from ? labour - run Leeds City Council have decide that it want to bring parking charge to my market town of Wetherby — it currently have no parking charge . do my hon . friend agree that the investment we be make be all very well , but if local authority make it hard for shopper by increase their cost , that will choke off the high street rather than help it ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question and he be absolutely right to say that some local authority see parking charge as potential revenue raiser , but this be in effect a tax on business . local authority can , of course , make charge where appropriate , but they should only cover the cost of maintain those car park ; they should not be a punitive tax on business . there be street in the west end of this city , important to our economy , that would certainly benefit from the ability of tourist to reclaim vat , aren ' t there ? my right hon . friend raise an important point that this Department have look at carefully . we be concerned about the impact of the withdrawal of that tax concession on business , not just for these business themselves , but for the other business that rely on foreign visitor — I be talk about hotelier , restauranteur and so on . we be keen to look at this matter . the Chancellor commit in his autumn statement to review the evidence to see what impact this be have . we will look at that with great interest and make our view know strongly to the Exchequer . export : small and medium - sized business what step she be take to help small and medium - sized business to export . what step she be take to help small and medium - sized business to export . the Government ' s export support for sme include the export support service ; the export academy ; more than 400 export champion ; our network of nearly 200 trade adviser ; and support provide around the world through the international market service . just last week , my noble Friend the Minister with responsibility for export announce that UK Export Finance be introduce more flexible fast - track financing for sme , make it easy than ever for UK firm to sell into international market . last week , I welcome the Duke of Gloucester to my constituency to award local SME GaraDry the King ' s award for enterprise for its innovation in international trade . how can such business have confidence in the Government ' s support for sme when Britain ' s export growth be among the bad of the G7 economy and be forecast to be fall ? I certainly welcome the royal visit that the hon . Lady have in her constituency ; it be always fantastic to see that support , particularly for exporter . however , I think she be a bit off on the datum . when we look at export datum , we see that we have £ 877 billion - worth of export in the 12 month to the end of September 2023 . we be head towards the £ 1 trillion export target , and that figure be up by almost £ 200 billion — or 29 % — on the figure from five year ago , which be before Brexit . in 2021 , the Government launch a rebrande trade show programme pilot to great fanfare , but between November 2021 and March 2022 only two business in the UK be fund under the programme . we now hear that the scheme have be shelve . will the Minister explain what have happen to that initiative , which have launch a number of household british fashion brand abroad and which serve as a vital gateway under the last Labour Government for sme to access new market ? the last Labour Government be , of course , in office rather a long time ago . it be not always incumbent on successive government more than a decade later to keep previous Labour Government scheme go . the scheme to which the hon . Gentleman refer be a pilot , which do not yield the success that we might have hope . however , I will take no criticism from he and the Labour party for the support we be give to exporter . we be spend £ 200 million over this spending review period to support sme to grow and succeed internationally , and we have a record to be commend . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Kenya , may I welcome the fact that this week the Government hold the successful global investment summit and be take step to help british business to export ? I recently return from Nairobi , where I visit some of the UK ' s flagship investment , include in infrastructure and clean energy . will the Minister provide an update on the Africa investment summit next year ? I also ask that the UK continue to bang the drum for british business to export to Kenya , the gateway to east Africa . first , let I commend my hon . friend for win " Speech of the Year " at last night ' s the Spectator parliamentary award . she have continue her fine form today . she do an amazing job for the country as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Kenya , and her recent visit in September be a big success , particularly on the infrastructure side of thing . she have already refer to railway and other infrastructure . she mention the UK - Africa investment summit , which will take place in London next year and will further our engagement with Kenya and other african country , foster modern partnership in trade and investment in area such as resilient infrastructure , clean technology and renewable energy . I welcome my right hon . friend back to his post . I pay tribute to he and to the Secretary of State for the international trade deal that they have strike during their period in office . the UK have strategic relationship with a number of Gulf nation . what progress be be make on a free trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council ? if it be more challenging to strike a deal across all nation , what bilateral trade agreement can we explore in order to exploit the opportunity for those nation to invest significantly in the UK ? I be excite by the prospect of the deal with the Gulf Cooperation Council , with which the Secretary of State be very much engaged , and I be look forward to be re - engage with it . it be a huge opportunity for we , as the late figure show that total trade between the UK and the Gulf be worth more than £ 60 billion . we be look forward to move the negotiation forward and get a very good deal for the UK . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister back to the Department for Business and Trade , and I look forward to help he hopefully to do well this time around . accord to the International Monetary Fund , over the past decade british food and drink export , include from sme , rise by just 3 % , which be the low growth of any G7 country . the US , Canada , Italy and Japan all see their export grow by between 30 % and 95 % . Government Ministers will not negotiate a veterinary agreement with the EU , which would help , they have cut funding for trade mission , and now the Secretary of State have cut funding to go to trade show too . why will Ministers not share our ambition for Britain to have the fast export growth rate of any G7 country ? of course , the hon . Gentleman and I have be around in these job for a while . he be possibly the last Trade Minister under the last Labour Government , so I will not be take any lecture from he on how to improve UK export . we have be finance dozen of global trade mission and we be spend £ 200 million over the spending review period on export in general . on the export figure , he neglect to mention service export , which total £ 463 billion in the 12 month to September 2023 . that be a huge increase of 42 % on our performance in 2018 , before Brexit . Retail Crime what assessment she have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of retail crime on high street business . the Government be clear that violent and abusive behaviour towards any public - face worker be never acceptable , and we recognise the implication that such incident can have on business as well as victim . on 23 October , the Government launch a retail crime action plan , which include a commitment to prioritise police attendance at the scene where violence have be use towards shop staff , where an offender have be detain by store security or where evidence need to be secure by police personnel . the Government also launch Project Pegasus , a unique private - public partnership that will radically improve the way retailer be able to share intelligence with the police . in recent week , I , like many colleague , have visit shop in my constituency as part of USDAW ' s — the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — freedom from Fear campaign . I have hear from staff about the daily level of verbal and sometimes physical abuse they face , and the huge loss from theft . will the Minister say more about what the Government be do to stem that tide of lawlessness , particularly for independent retailer who may not be part of the Pegasus Project ? will she also say how much be be lose to theft , because that cost all of we as customer , as well as cost retailer ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . this be not a victimless crime ; it impact shop , worker and customer . credit be due to the hon . gentleman for visit the shop in his constituency . overall crime be down by 54 % since 2010 , and down by 10 % since last year . however , he be right that shoplifting be up , which be why the action plan be so important . the action plan work for our high street because it be about ensure that the police be determined to collect evidence and to go after repeat offender and organise gang . Project Pegasus be key because it be a public - private partnership . we have create an extra offence , with a long sentence , for those who be violent towards a shop worker . with those extra programme of work and evidence collection , more people will be convict , so those who be involve in crime against shop will spend some time in prison . regulator : Statutory Duties if she will make a comparative assessment of the adequacy of the number of statutory duty of the Competition and Markets Authority and other regulator report to her Department . the CMA have a primary statutory duty to promote competition both inside and outside the UK for the benefit of consumer , which provide the CMA with a clear , strong focus on deliver for consumer . in our recent steer to the cma , we do point out how very important it be that it focus also on economic growth . regulator such as the CMA have huge power , so Parliament must give clear instruction about how those power should and should not be use . do the Minister agree that the CMA ' s instruction be a model of the kind of clear and strong legal duty that leave no doubt in regulator ' mind about the job that Parliament have ask they to do . will he join I in push for equally clear and focused duty for other economic regulator where , sadly , the same can not currently be say ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his very important work in this area . I know that reduce the regulatory burden be a cause that be very close to his heart , and to the heart of those in the Chamber today who support his amendment in the recent Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . that view be also share by myself and by the Secretary of State . we be very keen to make sure that , as well as ensure that sector be well regulated , our economic regulator focus on competition and economic growth . I disagree . the Competition and Markets Authority be not only the dog that do not bark , but the dog that do not bite . we see multinational corporation and investment fund of such a size that they have more power than a sovereign government . when will the Government give the cma the power and authority need to tackle the corporate monopoly and cartel that have so much sway over our life ? the hon . member raise an important matter . that be why the Government be legislate in this space , through the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , which give the CMA huge new power , particularly over some of our large online platform — platform that have what we describe as strategic market status . this be world - lead legislation that will tackle many of the example of detriment that he will be aware of and that he raise in his question today . High Street Postal Services what step she be take to maintain access to high street postal service . the Government protect the post office branch network by set access criterion and minimum service level to be provide by branch across the country . More post office have open this year than have close . the network be as large today as it have be for five year , with around 11 , 700 branch open , above the 11 , 500 target that we set for the Post Office . the Minister mention that more post office be open . actually , they be close . the Clapham Common post office in my Vauxhall constituency have be earmark for closure and there be no current plan to replace it . I be fight this closure , along with my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) and local ward councillor in the Communications Workers Union . this be a pattern that we be see across the country . it have be identify that 260 postal shopfront have close across the country in the past 10 year . with those closure , we be see elderly and vulnerable people — people who need their post office on the high street — have to travel far . will the Minister tell I what more he and the Government be do to protect these vital service ? the hon . member be absolutely right to raise this issue . the Post Office have launch a public consultation regard the Clapham Common post office . the Post Office maintain that local will continue to have good access to service . there be a post office within a mile of the Clapham Road branch , and three further branch within two mile . nevertheless , the Government support the post office network with a significant amount of financial support — £ 2 . 5 billion over the past 10 year — so we do continue to support post office . we know how important they be to constituent and other colleague in this House . I be very happy to meet she to discuss this particular case . cptpp : ratification what her plan timetable be for the ratification of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . we be work at pace to ratify the CPTPP , which we hope to bring into force next year . we be the first european country to join the CPTPP , and I know how powerful it will be for british business and consumer , which be why this Government be progress legislation as quickly as possible , with Second reading of the Bill have take place in the other place on 21 November . we be already play our part as the second large economy in the agreement . the Secretary of State meet other cptpp minister two week ago in San Francisco to discuss the blossoming future of the agreement . across the House , over a period of time , member work with organisation such as the Trade Justice Movement have express concern about the inclusion of investor - state dispute settlement procedure within treaty , because they restrict our own country ' s ability to regulate . I raise that issue in September and suggest that , as the Government have do with Australia and New Zealand , we agree in a separate letter that the settlement procedure will not be include in this treaty . I be then tell — rather curtly — that it be too late . actually , it be not too late . there be the potential to do a side letter , as we have with other country , to exclude an investor - state dispute settlement procedure . in the light of the Government ' s negotiate remit for the free trade agreement with Canada , the Government be specifically seek to exclude that procedure . I wonder whether the Government might think again . it be good to be spar with the right hon . Gentleman again from the Dispatch Box — we have both have a few up and down since we last go head to head . CPTPP do not compromise the UK ' s right to regulate at all ; it expressly preserve the right of state to regulate proportionately , fairly and in the public interest . it be worth remind the House that the UK have never lose an ISDS case . such procedure actually help to protect UK investment abroad . british investment in Canada total £ 40 . 6 billion in 2020 - 21 , which will be cover for the first time by these protection . as I say , if we can not trust Canada in international affair , who can we trust ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that the deal can not be ratify until the legislation have be approve by Parliament and the deal have complete the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act process . Business export what step she be take to help increase the number of business that export . the Government ' s publish export strategy focus on address the challenge that UK business face when export . the Government continue to promote exporting , and to support company through our network of international trade adviser , sector specialist , and the export support service . all our service can be access on great . gov . uk . in my constituency I have company such as EyeOL , Lindal Valve , Peli Biothermal , Friction Marketing , signature flatbread and 198 small business , all of which export globally . the small business export through Amazon . that be fantastic , as there be evidence that business that export can pay their staff more , but what be the good way to get business that have not yet realise that the world be their marketplace export not just to Europe but around the whole world ? I commend my hon . friend for be a long - stand champion of his constituency exporter . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to South Africa and Mauritius , he know only too well the importance of export . the Government ' s export strategy be clear . we have a clear programme to assist small and medium - sized enterprise , particularly first - time exporter . all of our service can be access via great . gov . uk , and we have a network of international trade adviser locally for Bedfordshire who be able to help as well . business in Essex : export what step she be take to help support business in Essex to export . as a fellow Essex MP , I can assure my right hon . friend that this matter be close to my heart . business can access support through great . gov . uk , include our self - serve digital offer , the export support service , international trade adviser and UK Export Finance . my Department be help Essex company such as Icon LifeSaver in Colchester to secure potential sale of over £ 10 million in the US , Colombia and Estonia . Kestrel Liner Agencies , which be headquarter in my constituency and last year receive its third queen ' s Award for international trade , have also benefit . we be focus on priority trade barrier in particular , which could boost UK export by around £ 20 billion over five year . the Secretary of State will know inside out what the wonderful county of Essex have to offer when it come to business export . we have company such as Wilkin & Sons and Wicks Manor , and many other producer who will sell the produce that household across the country will enjoy this Christmas , at home and abroad . will the Secretary of State highlight how she be work across Government with other Departments to reduce the barrier to export that cover , for example , produce , manufacturing cost , energy cost , and even the processing of animal ? remove barrier to trade be one of this Government ' s top priority . my right hon . friend will know many of the thing that the Government have be do , include subsidise energy bill , because we recognise the difficulty that manufacturer and processing plant face . at the moment I be particularly focus on resolve trade barrier . we have resolve 178 trade barrier worth more than £ 6 . 5 billion to business , include those in Essex , over the next five year . food producer in her constituency specifically will be pleased to know that just last month , when I be in Japan for the G7 , we resolve a barrier restrict export of cooked poultry from the UK to Japan , which I think will provide a festive boost to UK exporter worth an estimate £ 10 million over five year . arm Export Licences : Israel whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of revoke arm export licence to Israel . whether she have make an assessment of the potential merit of revoke arm export license to Israel . since the barbaric terrorist act by Hamas against Israel on 7 October and the subsequent conflict in the region , the Government have be monitor the situation very closely . the UK support Israel ' s legitimate right to defend itself and take action against terrorism , provide that that be within the bound of international humanitarian law . export licence be keep under careful and continual review as standard , and we be able to amend licence or refuse new licence application if they be inconsistent with the strategic export licensing criterion . no one be suggest that Israel do not have the right to defend itself — but , as the Secretary of State say and we agree , within the bound of international law . the mass killing of civilian in Gaza should concern we all . without resort to platitude about the relative toughness of the UK ' s arm export control , could she please identify which arm export licence be currently in force , include open licence for end use by the israeli defence and security force , and provide detail of they to the House ? I do not believe that be something that I be able to do or should do . I can tell the hon . and learn Lady that last year we grant 114 standard individual export licence for military good value at £ 42 million to Israel . if there be a specific issue that she would like to highlight , we be prepared to look at it , but she will know that security and defence export be not necessarily well discuss on the Floor of the House or in public , for obvious reason . a state that supply military equipment that be use in the commission of violation of international humanitarian law be at risk of complicity in a humanitarian catastrophe . in continue with those licence and supply UK arm to Israel , what assessment do the Secretary of State make of the potential for UK Government complicity , if Israel be find to have commit war crime in Gaza by the ongoing International Criminal Court investigation ? I be quite surprised that there be not a word of condemnation , and the implication that the UK be complicit be really not the sort of thing we would expect from a british Member of Parliament in this House . I completely disagree with the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the Government take our defence export responsibility extremely seriously and operate some of the most robust and transparent export control in the world . India Trade Deal what recent progress she have make on negotiate a trade deal with India . I be pleased to confirm that advanced talk with India be ongoing . we be in round 13 , with discussion currently focus on good , market access , service and investment . we remain clear that we will not sign until we have a free trade agreement that fully benefit the UK people and economy . we be focus on the deal , not the date . total trade in good and service between the UK and India be £ 36 . 3 billion in the year to March 2023 . an FTA with the fifth - large economy in the world , and one of the fast - grow , would be a massive boost to the UK economy and put UK business at the front of the queue to supply India ' s grow middle class , which be expect to be a quarter of a billion consumer by 2050 . this be an important exploitation of Brexit , so will the Minister do all he can to bring this deal over the line as soon as possible for Britain ? my right hon . friend of course have a lot of experience in complex negotiation and I can say that we , like he , will not be satisfied until we have the right deal . he be right that a deal with India would be a big step forward in the UK ' s post - Brexit strategy to refocus UK trade on the Indo - Pacific region , which represent one third of global gdp . my negotiator and I continue to work at pace and we will negotiate until we have secure the right deal . I warmly welcome his interest in do more trade with India . steel Industry what step she be take to help support the steel industry . the Government recognise the vital role of the steel sector , and be work with the sector to achieve a sustainable future . we have announce £ 500 million of support towards a joint £ 1 . 25 billion investment with Tata Steel to achieve the transformation of Port Talbot , and we be also in talk with British Steel . we have provide the steel sector with £ 730 million in energy cost relief since 2013 , and announce the british industry supercharger — decisive measure to reduce energy cost for energy - intensive industry . in community across the country — particularly in Wales through Port Talbot — steel have create high - pay , productive job for generation , but we be the only G7 country with a steel industry in decline . thousand of job be be lose . what we need be a long - term plan that support steelworker and their community to maintain those good job into the future and transition to net zero , so why be the Minister make short - term decision instead of deliver on the long - term industrial strategy that community such as mine , and our steel industry and worker , desperately need ? that be just not correct , especially the comparison to the G7 . the decision over Port Talbot have be hang around for quite some time , and we be able to work with Tata Steel to ensure that job be confirm long into the future . Tata Steel employ more than 8 , 000 people , and that be under serious threat until the investment be secure . now consultation be take place with the union , and the reality be , as the medium have note , that the union themselves be not sure how they want to take this forward . we be absolutely sure that we want steelmaking in that area and that job should be secure . that be why we offer the support that we do . I have write again to the Secretary of State to seek specific confirmation of the Government ' s position on a virgin steelmaking sovereign capability in this country . will she ensure that that specific question be address when I receive a response ? my hon . friend be first and foremost an advocate for the steelwork and steelworker in her constituency . obviously that letter will be on its way , and I thank she so much for raise it . we be use to this Government flip - flop all over the place . it would be funny if it be not so serious for business , export and job . so when we hear the Treasury tell everyone who would listen that the Government ' s response to the carbon border adjustment mechanism would be in the autumn statement , we be not surprised that it be not . the future of steel investment and growth rely on a clear and certain path from Government . we can not have our business disadvantage any more , so what be the decision on the cbam ? if this government can not decide , be it not time to make way for one who can ? decision have to be take while respond to the consultation that take place . we have be absolutely determined to ensure that steelmaking will remain competitive in the UK , which be why we have be able to support the steel sector with high energy cost and put over £ 1 billion in place to deal with decarbonisation technology . when it come to Tata , the support we have pledge involve an investment of over £ 1 billion to ensure that job remain secure in the future , and negotiation continue with British Steel as well . that be the support that we have provide and will continue to provide for steel in the UK . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this week , I host more than 200 global ceo and investor at the UK global investment summit , which be an extraordinary success . the Prime Minister set a £ 9 . 5 billion target to beat , and we triple it , secure £ 29 . 5 billion of investment and more than 12 , 000 job . the success of the gis be a vote of confidence in the UK . my Department ' s work , support by the £ 20 billion business tax cut in the autumn statement , be secure our country as a world - lead business and investment destination . many people be aware of the incredible story of the Redcar steelwork site be reborn as Teesworks , create 20 , 000 job and unlock £ 2 billion in private investment . few people be aware that Stockton ' s very own freeport business park be be build at the airport . do my right hon . friend agree that Teesside , as the home of the UK ' s first and big freeport , offer a unique opportunity to those invest in the industry of the future ? I do agree , and my hon . friend be quite right to praise the progress that have be make on deliver Teesside freeport . the freeport have already be successful in secure several landmark investment , include from SeAH Wind , which be invest £ 650 million in build an offshore wind manufacturing facility . that will create around 750 high - skilled job and build on the measure announce in the autumn statement last week to far strengthen the offer of UK freeport . my Department will continue to work with freeport , in Teesside and elsewhere , on secure high - value investment . this be the Department in charge of growth , investment and export . in the late figure , follow the autumn statement , growth have be downgrade . business investment be still forecast to be the low in the G7 , and good export have decline , both to the EU and to non - EU country . give that there be so many amazing business and sector in the UK , how do the Government account for their poor performance ? I will not allow the hon . gentleman to spin his way out of what be actually a very good news story for the Government . the fact be that the UK have overtake France to become the world ' s eighth - large manufacturing nation . we be the world ' s fifth - large exporter . we be grow fast than Germany and France , and have receive more investment than they combine . we be the top investment destination , certainly for financial service . we be do well . perhaps this be the moment for I to tell he what business tell I at the global investment summit : that they be unimpressed by the labour shadow Ministers they have meet ; that their offer be unimaginative ; and that they be repetitive , and have no vision for the future of business in the UK . we follow the Secretary of State ' s Twitter feed , and quite simply , we do not believe she . I want to ask the Secretary of State about late payment . in the nine year that the Government have spend consult on late payment , 450 , 000 business have go under while wait to be pay . why do the Government ' s new plan on late payment apply only to firm contract with the government ? why do they not rather follow our proposal to make sure that all public company disclose their payment practice ? I have be work with the Federation of Small Businesses and other on late payment . the hon . Gentleman will have hear the measure announce in the autumn statement ; this be an issue that the Government take very seriously . I disagree that we be implement our plan in a partial way . we will resolve this issue , but I be afraid that I completely disagree with the opposition : have do quite a lot on this , and many business have praise the measure that we announce in the autumn statement . on 14 November , the Government sign a memorandum of understanding with the US state of Florida . this be the seventh such agreement that the Government have sign with a state in the US , and I understand that there be ongoing discussion with other state . obviously , that be welcome . will the Secretary of State give we an assessment of the effect of this approach , and tell we what the next step be to get a more general trade agreement with the United States ? we be ready to have a free trade agreement with the US , but it be not undertake free trade agreement with any country . that is , of course , disappointing , but it know that we stand ready . that be why we have the state MOU programme . the late figure show that UK - US trade have reach £ 310 billion . we be the big investor in Florida . I be pleased to meet Governor DeSantis early this month , and I also meet the California Governor , Gavin Newsom , who want to be even fast in sign an MOU with the UK . they believe that this country have a lot of opportunity , and they want to do business with we . import tariff on egg product allow we to recognise the high cost of UK egg production because of safety , welfare and environmental consideration . can the Secretary of State give an assurance that egg and egg product will be afford sensitive product status by the UK in future free trade agreement negotiation , and that import tariff will remain in place on those product ? it be difficult to comment on tariff in live negotiation , but I would say two thing to the hon . gentleman : first , this country import very few egg from abroad , and secondly , anything that happen with import egg would not change our standard on food import , food safety and animal welfare in this country . in yesterday ' s data Bill debate , Ministers give clear and positive reply about the importance of interoperable data standard , and the need for an investable timetable of which sector will get smart datum and when . however , they be much less clear — one might even call it bashful — about give a date for when that timetable will be publish . be my hon . friend the Minister willing to be a little less coy this morning ? I be not know for my coyness . my hon . friend have do very important work in this space , and we share his ambition : I chair the Smart Data Council , and we be plan to open up database right across our economy to allow for more competition in the world of energy , telecom , and buy and sell house . he have be a great champion of all those measure . I be very keen to bring forward the roadmap that my hon . friend have refer to , hopefully as early as January next year . at their busy time of year , british cheese exporter be warn of damage loss as the Government continue to fail to reach a deal that ensure access to the canadian market . every day that the Government fail , company such as the Snowdonia Cheese Company in north Wales lose contract , and they can not make plan with the loom deadline of 31 December a matter of week away . can the Minister update the House on the negotiation to extend the deadline for cheese tariff quota between the UK and Canada ? we be aware of the situation , and be work on it — negotiation to resolve it be actively ongoing . UK cheese be in increase demand in Canada , and export of UK cheese benefit business on both side of the Atlantic . the UK have make continued and repeat effort to find a solution since negotiation begin , include by seek an extension to the current arrangement , and we be clear that the UK be rightly entitle to ongoing access to Canada ' s World Trade Organisation cheese tariff quota under our right and obligation at the WTO . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Brazil , I know that the good way of support export from my Dudley business be to remove barrier to trade . that be why I be absolutely delighted when both our country sign a double taxation agreement , in good faith and to the high possible standard . there appear to be complication in Brazil at the moment with ratify that agreement through Congress , as we have ratify it through our Parliament . what more can minister — the Chancellor of the Exchequer , perhaps — do to try to persuade Brazil that it be indeed a very good deal for itself as well ? first , I praise my hon . friend for the amazing job he do as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Brazil . partly due to his effort , UK - Brazil trade have increase by 33 % in the past year alone , so we be do a very good job there . the UK - Brazil double taxation agreement be pass into UK law in June , and be estimate to be worth hundred of million of pound to the UK . I hope that Brazil ratify the agreement soon : it be very much in its own interest as well . as my hon . friend know , the Chancellor have make very strong representation to that effect , and we look forward to strengthen our trade relationship at the next UK - Brazil joint economic and trade committee next year . under current law , union be require to use electronic mean to communicate with their member about matter relate to work , yet be prevent from use the very same electronic method when ballot their member for industrial action . do the Minister accept that it should be possible to ballot trade union member on industrial action electronically ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . that be something we be look at ; we have be look at it for some time , and be keen to bring forward the result of our deliberation very shortly . may I ask the Trade Minister , whom I welcome back to his position , what effort the Government be make to raise awareness of the develop country trading scheme , particularly among african country ? what encouragement be he give those country to take advantage of that scheme , which would benefit they and we ? again , we have almost a full turnout of the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy in the House this morning , and I commend my hon . friend for the work he do as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy not just to one country , but to three — Angola , Zambia and Ethiopia . he rightly take a strong interest in the UK ' s forward - lean and exemplary develop country trading scheme . the scheme be launch on 19 June by my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who be now the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , and provide duty - free or nearly duty - free access to good to 37 african country . the scheme be launch to significant medium attention in Ethiopia , and there be a series of event in more than 10 country . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) : the onus be on all of we in this House to continue to extol the virtue and the benefit of the UK ' s develop country trade scheme . we have take the EU scheme and go significantly far , make it more generous for develop country . we should all be unite in extoll the virtue of the UK ' s scheme , and of the brilliant job the UK be do to promote good access to develop country . could I revisit my early question to the Secretary of State about arm export licence to Israel ? I and many other do not agree with her secrecy approach , and I and many other believe that Members of Parliament be entitle to this information , so I will try another approach . could she detail the classification and description of the good , the stated end use and the licence type , include direct transfer and those via third country , and could she place that information in the Library for Members of Parliament ? I believe there be a quarterly register that may contain some of the information the hon . and learn Member be ask for , but I be not able or go to list every single export decision that have be make by the export control joint unit . I will see what I can do to get she a full answer , but she will know that this be a very sensitive issue . I have a quasi - judicial role , and I must be see to be impartial at all time . I will do what I can to provide the information she want , but I do not have a list to provide she with this morning , and certainly not on the Floor of the House . on Scunthorpe , what major economy do not have a blast furnace and the ability to make virgin steel ? almost all the G20 country have operational blast furnace , and a number of those be transition to electric arc furnace as well . we know the importance of Scunthorpe , which be a key driver of economic growth . british Steel provide a third of all domestic production supply to the construction and rail industry . we continue to be in negotiation to make sure that we secure the good deal , and one that be good value for taxpayer , when it come to Scunthorpe . on Tuesday , we finally have answer from Lisa Wilkinson about the mistake that lead to the collapse of that much - love firm , but Ms Wilkinson be not able to answer why 70 % of the profit in the last four year be pay out in dividend to family trust while the deficit in the pension fund amount to now £ 50 million . will the Secretary of State ensure that regulator explore every option to claw back those dividend so that Wilko pensioner be not short - change ? the right hon . member raise a very important point . he have look at this matter very carefully , include on the Business and Trade Committee , and I thank he for his work . I be pleased to give evidence to his Committee on Tuesday . clearly , the Insolvency Service be look at this . it be look at the director ’ conduct report from PricewaterhouseCoopers , the administrator , which it need to look at very carefully . it be clear from that report so far that there be no evidence of director misconduct , but further work be ongoing . the Insolvency Service be due to meet the administrator , PwC , in January , and we will look at the situation as it unfold . one of the most effective way we could strengthen both the public sector and the private sector be the creation of an office of the whistleblower , as long champion by my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) . that would strengthen corporate governance , empower those who see wrongdoing to come forward and protect they from intimidation , and strengthen the UK as a place to do business . give that this week be whistleblowe Awareness Week , could I encourage Ministers to bring forward proposal to support this important initiative ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his work in this area , in which he have great expertise . I meet my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mary Robinson ) yesterday to discuss this very matter . she have set out some key proposal in this area . we be currently undertake a review of whistleblowing , and we hope to report to the House very shortly . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 4 December will include : Monday 4 December — remain stage of the Victims and Prisoners Bill . Tuesday 5 December — opposition day ( 1st allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Wednesday 6 December — Second reading of the Sentencing Bill . Thursday 7 December — general debate on tackle Islamophobia , follow by a debate on a motion on the implementation of public register of beneficial ownership in the UK ' s overseas territory and Crown dependency . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 8 December — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 11 December include : Monday 11 December — Second reading of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . so it be another week , and another business statement , yet still no emergency legislation on Rwanda as promise . it have be another week of infighting , division and chaos on illegal and manage migration from the conservative party . apparently , some in the Cabinet — I do not know whether the Leader of the House be one of they — be hold that legislation back , while other clamour for it , with the Minister for Immigration go rogue . the Prime Minister be strand between they , too weak to face down either side and too weak to act . week after it be promise in day , when will we finally see the treaty and legislation ? as well as a treaty to negotiate , we have the ongoing situation between Israel and Gaza — I welcome the further extension in the temporary truce this morning — war still rage in Ukraine , a diplomatic row with Greece , visit to Kyiv and the middle east , a NATO summit , COP28 this week and a visit to Brussels next week , yet not a peep from the Foreign Secretary in this House , and no reporting back to member . when I last raise this issue with the Leader of the House , she say that the House must be able to " hold he to account " . when ? I welcome the Procedure Committee look into the matter , but the Government could and should do more to ensure that we be able to raise issue directly and regularly , now . we have have no Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office statement this week or last , only an urgent question — yet again the Government be be drag here instead of respect the House of Commons , and it be just not good enough . the next question to the Foreign Office will be on Tuesday 12 December . will the Leader of the House ensure that some progress on hold the Foreign Secretary to account be make before then ? it be not just foreign policy decision that member be keen to ask Lord Cameron about . question about his dealing with Greensill Capital continue to rumble on . thank to diligent work by my deputy , my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) , the Insolvency Service have be ask whether Lord Cameron could be consider a " shadow director " of Greensill . if that be the case , he could be subject to the same duty and liability as a director . his tax affair from the time be now under scrutiny for fail to provide detail of his personal use of plane own by Greensill Capital . my hon . friend have write to the Chair of the Treasury Committee to ask she to consider whether Lord Cameron ' s failure to declare that information to the Committee be potentially in contempt of the House . will the Leader of the House encourage the Chair of the Committee to investigate that ? will she also ensure that Lord Cameron do not wriggle out of frequent appearance in front of the Foreign Affairs Committee ? it be not just his lordship who be dodge scrutiny , because that be the Government ' s try and test tactic on every front . day by day , they be erode the convention of this place with their cavalier approach to scrutiny and good government . on Monday , Members debate minimum service level regulation for rail without the opinion of the Government ' s own independent assessor , because they do not give they enough time to look at they . yesterday we have Report stage of the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill , and the Government table 240 new amendment , some really substantial , at the last minute . it be outrageous . even the former Leader of the House , the right hon . member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) — not someone I often agree with — think that the Government take a dictatorial approach to new legislation . it have also emerge that the Government ' s Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill not only will not apply to new flat , but now will not even apply to the sale of new house . we have a flagship Bill to ban lease - hold that do not even ban leasehold . what a shamble . this be child ' s play and no way to run a government . finally , this week see some serious question about what can only be describe as the possible bribery of sit member . the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) be record reveal that he have be offer a lot of money to join the Reform party . the offer be five year of an MP ' s salary as insurance for defect . these allegation be incredibly serious and tantamount to bribery from a rival political party , potentially in breach of electoral law . it have subsequently emerge that the Government Chief Whip be make aware of these enticement be offer month ago and believe they to be serious and potentially criminal . have these matter now be pass to the police ? if so , when ? if not , why not ? why have it take a secret recording to bring these very serious matter , which go to the heart of our democracy , to the attention of this House ? first , may I wish everyone a happy St Andrew ' s day ? I be sure I speak for the whole House when I say that our thought be still with the hostage who be still in Gaza and their family . we hope that situation can be resolve quickly . first , the hon . Lady raise the issue of the Foreign Secretary be answerable to this House . she will know that a senior Foreign Office Minister be available to lead on matter , and on very serious issue the Prime Minister would speak from this Dispatch Box . the Foreign Secretary have be forward - lean and suggest a number of thing that he think would be highly appropriate for how he could be hold to account in this place and directly by member of this House . no decision have be take yet , because we be wait to hear from the Procedure Committee . it be right that matter for this House be deal with by the Committees of this House . the Foreign Secretary have be forward - lean . I know that many member have be concern in particular about liaison with member of this House who have hostage family live in their constituency , whether they be british national or have a connection to Britain . the Foreign Secretary be meet and have offer to meet all such family , and he be in touch with hon . member who be in that situation . when the Procedure Committee bring forward measure — it be always sensible in its deliberation — I be sure those measure will be put in place . the hon . Lady criticise we for not allow scrutiny of legislation . her point might have have more traction if in yesterday ' s sit we have not finish an hour early . part of the reason for that be that only one Opposition Back Bencher speak in the debate . I think we be have vote when Report should have be conclude . the hon . Lady talk about the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . she will know that Bills can be amend during their passage through the House , and we have commit to include a ban on new leasehold house during the Bill ' s passage , despite what have be report . that commitment have not change . the hon . Lady talk about migration and emergency legislation , and I will put that in context . it be slightly ironic that Labour be eagerly await further legislation from we on these matter when Labour member have oppose all the new power that we have bring in to protect our border . they fight against we in end free movement and deport foreign criminal , they would wish to take an extra 110 , 000 people every year from Europe , and Labour in Wales be give asylum seeker £ 1 , 600 a month . the legislation will be bring forward shortly , but I be not hold my breath on the opposition support it . further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . I welcome the news that the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , which will bring in modern housing term , will have its second reading in a week or so . through my right hon . friend , may I say to the Government that even if we have to add thing to the Bill as it go along , that be well than have to wait another year for this overdue opportunity to reform effectively the scandalous abuse within leasehold , which be load so much against 6 million home occupier — the tenant of leasehold home ? I draw my right hon . friend ' s attention to the name day question I table for the Foreign Office about the acid attack on Shahzad Akbar on Sunday in England . if minister think it be appropriate to make an oral statement , will she please encourage they to do so ? it be just as shocking to have a Commonwealth country suspect of an acid attack on one of its national — a human right lawyer — in this country as it be to have the russian attack in Salisbury and the alleged indian attack in Canada . may I ask my right hon . friend to draw to the Home Secretary ' s attention the letter he will have receive today from the human right lawyer Clive Stafford Smith , ask whether the police force in the relevant area be right to assess the risk to this man as low when in fact it be high , and whether be it true that the local police have switch off the automatic number plate recognition system for some reason , when that might have help to detect the culprit of this terrible acid attack ? I thank my hon . friend for his warm welcome for the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . I will certainly ensure that the Home Secretary be aware of his concern with regard to that police force . he will know that the next Foreign Office question be on 12 December , but I will certainly ensure that both the Foreign Secretary and his lead Minister in the Commons be aware of his concern about that terrible attack . I be sure that the heart of all of we in the House go out to those innocent who have suffer in Gaza and Israel , and who continue to suffer . I , too , wish the House a very happy St Andrew ' s day — to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and to we all . on this special day , I have first a word of thank . the Leader of the House have describe I in this Chamber and on social medium as " sanctimonious " , " delusional " , " treacherous " and " slopey - shoulder " . I can not say how much that language from a Tory be a badge of honour for I in Scotland , so I be grateful . even more , her comment last week about Scotland ' s drug policy be literally front - page news . the Daily Record describe they as " an odd rant " — one of the more positive response . one correspondent ask : " why do Penny hate Scotland so much — be she scared by the bagpipe as a child ? " we certainly look forward to her reply to that . I be afraid that that answer from the Leader of the House illustrate comprehensively the attitude and contempt on the Government side of the House for the people of Scotland . maybe she need to refresh her Government ' s grow army of scriptwriter in Edinburgh — pay for , of course , by taxpayer ' money . no more fat - free , out - of - date trumpian rant , please . the Leader of the House have claim that she take an interest in the welfare of Scotland ' s child , so obviously she will have see the remarkable new assessment of the scottish child payment post on the London School of Economics website by a number of academic expert in social policy and economic . it say that the Scottish Government ' s payment be " predict to have a monumental impact on reduce child poverty rate " , and that they will " transform Scotland from be one of the most unequal place to live in Europe to be one of the most equal . " I feel that this House should be give an opportunity to debate it , as child poverty in England rocket . give her state interest , will she please confirm that she have read that assessment ? if not , would she like I to send she a copy ? or maybe it be really all about clickbait and social medium reach , and she do not care at all . let I add some more adjective to what the hon . Lady describe . the SNP really have surpass itself this week in be self - obsess , self - pitying and self - delusional . I have hit on why it be lose the case for independence : if Scotland be to take the leap , surely it would want its leader to be the sort of people to step up , take responsibility and work hard to improve their opportunity , but despite the Scottish Government be one of the most powerful devolve Administrations in the world , they can not accept responsibility for anything . give that the SNP have be in power for 16 year and in every single year its budget have be 20 % high than in England , who do the hon . Lady think be responsible for Scotland ' s decline A & E performance , increase waiting time , 70 % hike in drug - relate death and 10 % increase in the attainment gap ? what about the 10 year that the Scottish Government have miss their cancer and housing target , the rise crime , the soar violence in school , the low police number since 2008 or the 1 , 700 few teacher ? who do she think be responsible for the fact that some police force do not even investigate certain offence , and be warn that soon they will not be able to attend call - out ? who do the hon . Lady think be responsible for plummet international ranking in math , literacy and science ? who do she think have snaffle more than half the £ 1 billion in extra tax that scottish resident have to pay , which never reach public service ? she talk about scottish schoolchildren , but who have choose to pay so much less to scottish school per pupil than anywhere else in the UK ? the autumn statement have give the Scottish Government an additional £ 545 million . we be about to hear their budget , and it be a pretty safe bet that it will not be spend wisely . by all mean , the hon . Lady can send I what she like , but there be a trend here . scottish SNP supporter will soon be outnumber by the panda in her local zoo . I want to raise the brilliance of the Fromehall Mill team and to encourage everyone to look at the Stroud Times article and video as they try to raise share support to buy the mill . it be a multi - business powerhouse with everything from bike and bakery to artificial intelligence and social action . will my right hon . Friend tell the House when the next round of community ownership fund bid will be announce ? can we have a debate in the House about small company around the country that be use , sell and teach AI technology , because they be do an incredible job ? I thank my hon . friend for all her work to champion that brilliant local community initiative . we expect to be able to inform applicant to the third round of the community ownership fund by the end of December . she will know that Levelling up , Housing and Communities question be on Monday , where she may wish to make the case again . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the Backbench Business debate for Thursday 7 December . let I give she early notice that if we be award time on Thursday 14 December , the Committee will intend to schedule debate on knife crime and the potential merger of Vodafone and Three . be the Leader of the House consider give the Backbench Business Committee any time in the week begin Monday 18 December ? if she be , we would love to know as soon as possible so that we can allocate debate and let member know . I be glad to say that the Committee be re - establish this week and be up and run , but we already have a backlog of debate , with 13 on our waiting list . it be good that we have plenty of business to come . the Go North East bus industrial action continue , with very few bus run for week and , on many route , not at all . that be have a huge detrimental impact on our local economy and job , and on the learning of student who can not get to their local further education college such as Gateshead College in my constituency . student who struggle to make up the learning lose during covid be be hit again , since they be unable to attend at all without incur massive additional expense . can we have a debate in Government time about introduce a compensation scheme from public transport provider that be singularly fail in their service delivery obligation ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his advert for forthcoming debate . it be good to know that the Backbench Business Committee be busy . I will certainly let he know as soon as possible about the week of 18 December . he will know that we always try to give as much notice as possible . I be very sorry to hear about his ongoing constituency issue . that be why we believe minimum service standard in vital sector — transport be one of they — be so important . I will make sure that the Transport Secretary have hear about that ongoing situation . it be very well understand that student from low socioeconomic group will be disproportionately affect by such action . may we have a debate on decision by probation and prison service to release on licence ? last Friday , my constituent Levi Kent be stab to death . the man charge with his murder be sentence to two year in prison for wound with intent just in January this year and be release on licence in September . will my right hon . friend back my call for a serious case review into the licensing decision and monitoring , which may have free someone who should be in prison to murder ? I be sure I speak for the whole House when I say how appalled we be to hear of that situation . our thought be with my hon . friend ' s constituent and all those affect by this appalling tragedy . the Lord Chancellor be aware of this case . I be sure it will need to be subject to a review into what happen in this instance , but I know the Lord Chancellor ' s door be always open to she and I think he may have already contact she . I thank she for all she be do in her constituency in the aftermath of this appalling event . case of ricket in child , which be associate with malnutrition , have rise by over 700 % in the last two year . my Healthy Start Scheme ( take - up ) ( no . 2 ) Bill would have prevent over 157 , 000 baby , child and pregnant mother from miss out on essential food and vitamin , but the Government reject it . can we please have an urgent debate on why the Government have drag our child into victorian level of poverty ? the hon . Lady will know that there be over 500 , 000 few child live in absolute poverty under this Administration , and that the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) have be do incredible work , bring together Government Departments to focus on the early year and to create much more effective pathway at a local level for child who be particularly vulnerable . will my right hon . friend consider a debate in Government time on the effectiveness of the process of call in ? although the mechanism technically exist to help in planning case , such as the one I be deal with in relation to proposal for two drive - through fast food outlet on a busy highway interchange near Risley in my constituency , I fear that in practice the process of call in do not work as it should and need urgent reform . I thank my hon . friend for all she be do to make sure that the view of her constituent be hear in such matter . she will know that the next levelling up , Housing and Communities question will be on 4 December . I invite she to raise it directly with the Secretary of State . I will also make sure that he have hear what she have say today . I call Jim Shannon . [ hon . member : " Ooh ! " ] you catch I off guard there , Mr Deputy Speaker . thank you very much for bring I in early . in every one of our constituency , across the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we have girlguide group , which we greatly support as they do wonderful work with girl of all age . it be therefore with much concern that I ask the Leader of the House , very kindly , whether we may have a debate in Government time on the Floor of the House on the propose devastating decision by Girlguiding UK to sell off its UK activity centre and to stop direct delivery of girlguide in british overseas territory and on UK military basis . it will have a catastrophic impact , not just here but across the sea , on young woman in the british family , which we all want to preserve and retain . I thank the hon . gentleman for his early question this week . I think that would be an excellent topic for a Backbench Business debate . many member be agree with he as he outline the issue . I know that one of the problem be that the guide community do not feel that it be properly consult in advance of the decision be take , and I know that many right hon . and hon . member have write to the board to question it . I think an airing on the Floor of the House or in Westminster Hall would be welcome . I know my right hon . friend be as shocked as I be by some of the work practice of SSE in provide power to commercial premise . my constituent Philip Liddell of ACE Liftaway have pay £ 73 , 000 on deposit to SSE , but because of SSE ' s delay with SSE ' s solicitor , it have now ask he for an additional £ 50 , 000 to move an electricity substation on his commercial premise — an increase of 69 % . Mr Liddell do not cause the delay , but he have no choice but to pay up . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate in this Chamber to discuss SSE ' s working practice and how it be hold people to ransom ? that be a shocking case . as I would normally do , I shall write to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , but I be sure that SSE ' s diligent public affairs department be listen to business question , be terribly shock to hear about the situation , and will get in touch with my right hon . friend or her constituent before 3 o ' clock , when I put my letter in the postbox . I hope that she will keep I post on progress . read gaol have be empty for 10 year now , and there have be a strong local campaign to turn the historic prison into an art and heritage hub . the campaign be support by I and the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) , by our local council and by many other . the Ministry of Justice promise we an update this autumn on this important project , but sadly , none have yet be forthcoming . will the Leader of the House raise the matter with the Justice Secretary ? I fully understand why the local community want that heritage build to be bring into use , and it have an art connection through some of its former inmate . give that the next MOJ question be in the new year , I shall certainly raise it with the Lord Chancellor and his team , and ask they to update the hon . Gentleman . I recently visit the Falkland Islands , at the invitation of the Falkland Islands Government . a subject that arise while we be there be the complete lack of broadband and internet connectivity . I be unable to receive or reply to email , or look at anything on the web . this be hold back individual and , in particular , business opportunity in the Falklands . will the Government arrange a debate to explore how we can improve broadband and internet connectivity in overseas territory ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and many member who have visit the Falkland Islands will fully understand what she mean . in addition to stifle economic opportunity , it be a particular problem for the spouse of our serve personnel out there , whose ability to remain economically active be very limited by this situation . I shall certainly make sure that all the relevant Departments hear what she have say , and we will see what they can do to rectify the situation . the welfare of animal be hugely important to many of my constituent , and they be pleased to see the announcement of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill in the King ' s Speech , although they would have like it to go far and cover issue such as puppy smuggling . when can we expect the Bill to be present to the House and its second reading ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s approval of that Bill . he will know that we be still committed to the other measure that be in our manifesto . we will just be do they in other way , such as fulfil our commitment on primate through secondary legislation . he will not be surprised to hear I say that further business will be announce in the usual way , but it be good to know that he will be support the Government on these measure . when can we have a debate on the World Health Organisation ' s pandemic preparedness treaty and the associated international health regulation ? do the Leader of the House realise that there be a lot of concern across the country that this treaty will result in a loss of personal liberty and a real challenge to our sovereignty as a Parliament ? I shall certainly make sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear my hon . friend ' s concern on this matter . I know that many member have an interest in pandemic , which do not respect border . International co - operation be need , but there will be concern about how the World Health Organisation have respond to particular situation . I know the House will want to scrutinise such measure in detail . my constituent , Mr Jones , have his car write off by a third - party insurer in December 2022 . due to an insurance loophole , Mr Jones have be force to settle the car hire cost because his insurer , Admiral , book the car hire in his name and not through Admiral . nine month on , Admiral be still refuse to cover the cost and the third - party insurer say it have no liability , so Mr Jones be leave thousand of pound out of pocket because Admiral do not do its job properly . will the Leader of the House ask Ministers in the Department for Transport or the Department for Business and Trade to try to rectify this loophole , so that nobody else be leave short - change by insurance company that simply dodge the rule ? I be very sorry to hear about that case . I will raise it with the relevant Departments but , again , I hope the public affair team at Admiral have hear his question . this be a competitive market , and we have legislate to improve competition on such matter . if it have not already , I hope the public affair team will be in touch with the hon . Gentleman to discuss what recompense could be make . the record 1 , 455 police officer in Bedfordshire be extremely welcome . can the Home Office reassure the chief constable of Bedfordshire that apprehend illegal and dangerous motorcyclist who terrorise community be what the Government and , indeed , the people of Bedfordshire want he to do ? one young man have already lose his life and another have suffer life - change injury as a result of this behaviour . road and footpath need to be keep safe for adult and child . I thank my hon . friend for all he be do in the wake of these tragic incident . I will make sure the Home Secretary have hear his concern about the action that his local police may or may not be take . this kind of antisocial behaviour cause misery for many people , which be why , through our antisocial behaviour action plan , we have commit £ 160 million to help local authority make high street , footpath and so on much safe for their community . the police have power to deal with these situation , and we expect they to be use . this weekend mark small business Saturday , and I look forward to visit our wonderful Christmas market in Bath , which bring in £ 50 million for the local area . anyone who have not be to Bath at Christmas should please come . it be absolutely magical . I be pleased that footfall in Bath be above pre - pandemic level . however , many UK business be struggle to recover . this year have see the most company insolvency since 2009 , and the autumn statement offer no energy support for business . can we have a ministerial statement on what the Government will do to stop business close this winter ? I thank the hon . Lady for the advert for small business Saturday ; I be sure that all member of this House will be involve in it , celebrate the incredible entrepreneurial organisation and individual in their constituency . a number of measure be set out in the autumn statement to help our high street and , in particular , the hospitality , retail and leisure sector . we recognise that they be the backbone of this economy and they be often the focal point for many other service and social interaction in our community . they should be treasure and I hope that everyone do that this Saturday . one reason why the good people of Gedling vote to leave the European Union be to take back control of our border . there have be several high - profile and complex challenge in do that , be it deal with the emergence of criminal gang or complicated legal proceeding . so may we have a statement to set out the progress the Government have make on this issue since we leave the EU ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he will know that progress be be make on this matter : boat crossing be down by 33 % ; the legacy backlog be down by 42 % ; asylum decision processing have increase by 250 % ; return be up by 29 % ; and immigrant be 43 % less likely to be in receipt of any form of state benefit . since we leave the EU , we have be work to change our system . in December 2020 , we end free movement — that be oppose by the Labour party — and change access to benefit . in April last year , we pass the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 to deter entry into the UK and to help we to remove people who have no right to be here . in December last year , we sign the deal with Albania , reduce the number of people come here by 90 % . in May , we introduce measure to reduce the rise in the number of student bring dependant and to stop student switch out of the student route . in July , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 become law , although , again , it be oppose by the Labour party — 70 time . again that legislation be help we to remove people who should not be here and to speed up removal . in October , we open a consultation on cap the number that we would take from safe and legal route . More legislation will come to the Floor of this House imminently , particularly to enable the Rwanda plan to be put into full effect — no doubt , it will be oppose by the Labour party . now that we have great control , we should use those control . the Government Chief Whip be a Minister but , by convention , do not make statement from the Dispatch Box . so will the Leader of the House please give confirmation on accusation make by the GB News presenter who also have a side hustle as the hon . member for Ashfield about be effectively offer a bribe in his role as a Member of Parliament ? I know this be report to the Government Chief Whip , but have they report that allegation to the police for proper investigation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point ; this be a serious matter . I be not aware of the situation that he refer to , but if these matter be be investigate by the police , it would probably not be wise to comment on they on the Floor of the House . before I ask my question , Mr Deputy Speaker , let I declare an interest , as a cornish fishwife . the cornish inshore fleet , particularly the under - 10 metre fleet , be alarmed at proposal for a potential ban on the landing of pollock in the next round of negotiation for fishery quota . the cornish Fish Producers Organisation and the cornish fisherman I know tell I that pollock be the staple for much of the inshore fleet , part of which rely on it entirely . sadly , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have so far not listen to the suggest compromise that have be table , which include keep the fishery open for just line - catch pollock . therefore , on behalf of all six cornish mp , include myself , may I ask for a debate in Government time on the potential impact that this ban be likely to have on the already precarious livelihood of our cornish fisherman ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point on a subject close to her heart . she will know that since we leave the EU there have be good opportunity for our fishing community . in one instance , a fishing port not far away from she have see its annual sale go from £ 40 million to £ 70 million . this should be a success story and , of course , what benefit the fishing community benefit hospitality , leisure , retail and many other thing . she will know that there will be an opportunity to raise this matter with the Secretary of State on 7 December and I urge she to do so . today be Fuel Poverty Awareness Day , and I thank National Energy Action for its work ensure everyone can have a warm , safe and healthy home . I recently meet with friend of the Earth Luton , as part of its United for Warm Homes campaign , who tell I that in my constituency there be 36 energy crisis hotspot , represent over 50 % of neighbourhood in Luton South , where below average income meet high fuel bill . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on an emergency home insulation programme to start in neighbourhood hit hard by the energy crisis ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and I shall ensure her suggestion be hear by the Secretary of State . she will know about the financial support that we have give household , as well as recent measure in the autumn statement , that mean over £ 100 billion in support have be provide . on average , low - income household have receive £ 2 , 500 a year to enable they to cope with high energy bill . through her auspex , her constituent could make use of a number of insulation scheme , include those in the private and public sector . I will ask the Department to ensure she be aware of all those scheme . we often have debate about parliamentary standard for mps , which I have contribute to , but we rarely debate the standard adopt by political candidate . they be not elect , and most never will be , yet that large group of people have a significant effect on the public perception of our politic and politician . if we want to improve standard in politic , that begin at the grassroots level of political activism . during my time as an MP , there have be far too many instance of behaviour by my political opponent that have fail any definition of acceptable standard , or even legal one . can we have a debate about how we raise the bar throughout our political system , include local party association and candidate for office ? I hope what my hon . friend say will be meet by agreement from both side of the House , particularly from party leader . I happen to know that my hon . friend have suffer appallingly at the hand of a particular individual and I urge he to raise that matter with the relevant party leader . we should take these thing seriously . I know from my own party that our candidate be require to sign up to the nolan principle of public life , which be match with training . this week our sit mps and parliamentary candidate receive training from the Antisemitism Policy Trust . this be an incredibly important point and I hope we will all hold our colleague , whether they be mp or prospective parliamentary candidate , to account on this matter . I hope that my hon . friend ' s particular situation be resolve swiftly . last Sunday , I be proud to march against antisemitism , stand shoulder to shoulder with british Jews alongside my friend and constituent . I welcome the increase in funding to the Community Security Trust , as lay out in the autumn statement , and thank it for keep my constituent safe . however , since the pogrom of October 7 , we have see a staggering 1 , 300 % increase in antisemitism , with many Jews no long feel safe in Britain . with that in mind , can we have a debate in Government time on tackle antisemitism and hate speech , to ensure people of all community feel safe ? I thank the hon . Gentleman and all hon . member who join that march or show solidarity to the jewish community on that day . we must all continue to do that when the headline disappear when the situation be resolve , as I hope it will be soon . I meet with the jewish Leadership Council yesterday to look at what more we can do . as well as show support to the jewish community , we need to show support to other faith community who want to do the right thing , stand in solidarity together , and continue to work at strengthen tie . we must support individual who reach out to other faith group in their community , and ensure that they do not face intimidation . as we continue to celebrate Disability History Month , may I raise again the lack of any disabled lift at Chalkwell station in my constituency ? it be an absolute disgrace . it be the main station give access to our beach , and with 40 steep step it be completely inaccessible to anyone with a disability or with a pushchair . I have raise this matter in the House five time now . this year I have be promise twice that it will be sort out . give that rail company have a duty under the Equality Act 2010 , itself a consolidate Act , to make reasonable adjustment , please may we have a debate in Government time on when the provision will be enforce in a timely manner ? my hon . friend be a diligent campaigner on this matter , rightly so , and her campaigning have yield some result : I understand that the Department for Transport have say that Network Rail expect to award the construction contract early next month for that work . it be a very bad situation that need to be rectify . in the meantime , disabled passenger , if they can not use that station , can contact c2c , which will arrange alternative transport at no additional cost , but , of course , that be not optimum . with the hon . Lady ' s campaigning , I hope that optimum be not far away . last week , I raise with the Leader of the House the case of Teagan Appleby , as do her Member of Parliament , the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) . we do , as a result , have a meeting with the Minister , so I thank the Leader of the House for that . however , both the hon . Lady and I ask for an emergency intervention by the Department . this be day 37 of seizure and , last night at 7 . 30 , Teagan ' s mum , Emma , be tell that there be nothing else that can be do . a brain operation would not address Teagan ' s seizure . she currently have access to an oil , which her parent must pay for while she be in an NHS hospital . she need another oil . I pass Emma ' s number to the official on Monday . I have see the Minister in these corridor , but nothing have happen . I have ask for an emergency intervention . it be now Thursday . we need one and I urge the Leader of the House to make that intervention on my behalf and on behalf of everybody who be support Teagan . I thank the hon . Lady for her ongoing work on what be a very difficult case . I shall ensure , immediately after these question , that the new Secretary of State have hear what she have say . as she will know , I be not aware of what the healthcare professional care for her constituent be say that she need , but if it be something that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care can intervene and act on , I be sure that she would want to do so . colleague will be aware of the brilliant Bluebell Wood Children ' s Hospice in Rother Valley , and the work that it do support child and their family through some of the bad time imaginable . I wish to highlight the £ 25 , 000 raise for Bluebell Wood by eight of my constituent in Maltby — Conner Wesley , Rob Pryke , Craig Edwards , Matt Whitehead , Corey Mangham , Chris Daley , Danny Bearman and Caleb Wedge — in their coast - to - coast walk across England , raise two and a half time their target and make sure that Bluebell Wood have the resource that it need to help those who need it the most in their time of need . may we have a debate , in Government time , to discuss what this Government can do to help our charitable constituent support hospice such as Bluebell Wood ? I thank my hon . friend for get the name of his fantastic constituent on record , and I thank they for all the work that they have do to raise such a huge sum for this very important child ' s hospice . we all know the incredible work that these organisation do and how value they be by all who come into contact with they . be my hon . friend to apply for a debate on this , I be sure that it would be well attend . a few short year ago , my brother die by himself , at home and alone , have take an overdose of drug follow a life of serious , harmful addiction . last week , the Leader of the House stand at the Dispatch Box and dismiss the pilot in Scotland of drug consumption facility . she dismiss they as somewhere safe and warm for heroin user — people like my brother — to take their heroin , but they be healthcare facility design to help people with addiction problem , and turn their life around . she do it in the most ignorant and contemptuous way possible , so I invite she to my constituency to meet the family who be thankful that a pilot be finally take place . maybe she will then come back and make an apology at the Dispatch Box . give her love of click , if she put it on Twitter I will even share it . the hon . Gentleman can go and look at last week ' s Hansard , because that be not what I say . I be actually say that that would be a legacy of the Scottish National party . what I criticise the Scottish National party for be have let down a generation of child by destroy an education system , reduce the number of teacher , starve school of resource , widen the attainment gap and many other thing . I be genuinely sorry for the hon . Gentleman ' s loss , and I know a great deal about the particular pilot , which the Government support the Scottish Government ' s do , but his obligation to the child of Scotland be important , and the Scottish Government be fail they . I will not apologise for hold he and his party to account . level up round 3 result in over £ 1 billion of support for 55 project around the country , yet not many of they be in the south - east . Gillingham high street in my constituency urgently need that funding and regeneration . the autumn statement also include funding for town centre , not many of which be in the south - east . level up be about level up the north , south , east and west . will the Leader of the House clarify when we will have a statement regard round 4 of level - up funding ? can we please ensure that that funding go to all part of the country , include area such as Gillingham in the south - east , because we urgently need our fair share of resource , allocate on a merit basis ? my hon . friend make a compelling case for project and funding go to his constituency . he will know that the levelling - up agenda have be at the heart of successive Conservative Administrations . the next Question Time will be on Monday , and I hope that my hon . friend will attend to put those question directly to the Secretary of State . December 9th mark the 75th anniversary of the signing of the genocide convention . I be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on prevention of genocide and crime against humanity , and we will mark this time by call for a strategy . I invite you , Mr Deputy Speaker , the Leader of the House , the shadow Leader of the House , and all member present to come to a drop - in that we will hold next Wednesday in Portcullis House Room u from 12 . 30 pm to 2 . 30 pm , to talk to expert about how , as parliamentarian , when we say , " never again , " we can really mean that . will the Leader of the House support a debate on this issue ? I thank the hon . Lady for advertise her event . I shall certainly try to come along , subject to my duty in this House . it be incredibly important that hon . member know what step we can take , and what policy we can put forward , to ensure that these thing never happen again , and to deepen our knowledge of such thing as the international definition and the appropriate term to use for different situation . she be provide the House with a timely education session . at a recent football match in the Sheffield and Hallamshire woman ' s football league , a young woman be seriously injure follow a collision with a male player — a trans woman — on the oppose team . as have be well publicise in the national medium , a number of other team in that local woman ' s league have withdraw from fixture against that particular team out of concern for the safety of their player . unlike other sporting association , the fa have not yet act to ban biological male from play in woman ' s football , which be threaten the safety and the fairness of the woman ' s game at a time when its popularity be rightly rise . will my right hon . friend give time for a debate on woman ' s football , and the role of the fa in ensure the safety of female player ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . when I be Minister for Women and Equalities , I raise it with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , in part because FIFA ' s own rule do not allow biological man and biological woman on the same pitch together . the fa have different rule for different level and category of the game . I know that there be local team here who have tran woman play on they and they be very value , so I think it depend on the level of the game — that be certainly the response that I receive at the time from such sporting body . the issue be receive new focus , however , and clearly the constituent she mention be concerned about it , so I urge she to raise it both with the Equalities Minister and at CMS question , which be on 11 January . I be delighted to hear that this be Whistleblowing Awareness Week , because some week ago I be give access to 5 million confidential New Zealand Government vaccination record by a whistleblower . the datum be anonymise and pass to scientist and datum analyst in the UK and other country . I will share a fraction of that analysis : the mortality rate in New Zealand rise post vaccination for five month , regardless of what time of year the vaccine be take . that rate of mortality increase rise with every subsequent booster that be take . from the datum , the chance of the excess death in New Zealand be random and not due to the experimental vaccine have be calculate at one in 100 billion . it be the vaccine that be cause excess death in New Zealand , just as it be the vaccine that be cause excess death in the UK and elsewhere . can we please have a statement now from the Government , suspend these experimental mrna vaccine before any more death and harm be do to our population ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this question . I think in New Zealand over 11 million dose of the covid - 19 vaccine be administer . in England and Wales it be 150 million , and it be estimate that over 120 , 000 death be prevent by covid vaccine in England up to the end of September 2021 . I disagree with what he say about the critical issue of vaccination ; I think they be life - save . the report to which he refer have be debunk around the world , and he fail to mention the part that state that while an adverse event " can occur after vaccination , that do not mean it be cause by vaccination . " it be incredibly important that we look at the fact in this matter . we have the covid inquiry go on at the moment and , thank to the work that our science base do in produce those vaccine , we be able to save million of life . it be incredibly important that we combat any misinformation about the vaccine . the Leader of the House be more than aware that Barry in my constituency have not only the good beach front , but the good coastline in the whole of the country . Barry be to be enhance even far by a successful levelling - up bid of £ 20 million to deliver a marina for the town , follow a long - stand campaign . may we have a debate in the Chamber on regeneration in general , not only to consider the benefit that a marina will bring but , more importantly , on attract further investment and use the levelling - up fund successfully to create quality job and well facility in Wales ' s large town ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on secure that very large sum for his constituency . he be right that , in addition to the immediate facility that it will enable to be construct , there will be immense business opportunity for hospitality , leisure , retail and many other thing . I think all hon . member who have hear he will be very interested in visit and see the result . this Friday be Romania ' s national day , a chance to celebrate the contribution of Romania to european effort to support Ukraine and to acknowledge the huge contribution that the british romanian community make here . I be pleased last night to host 150 member of romanian church in the UK , include some of the most senior figure in the romanian christian community . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome the contribution of Romania to the effort to support Ukraine , and take this opportunity to praise the contribution of British Romanians to our country ? I say " Multe mul ţ umesc " to the hon . gentleman for his question . Romania have make a huge contribution to our effort with Ukraine , and I join he wholeheartedly in pay tribute to everything Romanians have do , as well as to the many level of partnership between our two nation . I thank he very much for the advert , and I be sure that all member of the House will send their good wish for Romania ' s national day . yesterday , the BBC announce that it be reduce the time allocation for the " Newsnight " programme . [ interruption . ] the reason give be that it want to concentrate more on online coverage and have more serious debate . the airwave be not exactly short of talk head . would it be appropriate , notwithstanding the fact that the Media Bill be currently in Committee , to have a debate about the BBC and its role as a national broadcaster ? Hansard may not have pick up that there be mixed view to that news across the Chamber . obviously , the BBC be operationally and editorially independent — it be up to the BBC to determine how it deliver its service — but it must ensure that it continue to provide the news content require to deliver its remit , as set out in the charter and the agreement . the first purpose of that be : " to provide impartial news and information to help people to understand and engage with the world around they . " the Government expect Ofcom , as the BBC ' s independent regulator , to ensure that the BBC be robustly hold to account in deliver its public service . if there be to be a debate , I be sure that it would be a very lively one . there have be a 26 % reduction in the number of free - to - use atm in my constituency since July 2018 , alongside a 30 % reduction in the number of free - to - use atm across the UK over the past five year . an increase number of atm be switch to the pay - to - use model because the interchange fee fail to cover the cost of maintain the machine . I be sure that the Leader of the House would agree that it be important to halt the decline of free - to - use atm , so will she make a statement on the need for interchange fee to rise to a level that properly cover the cost of provide and manage the UK ' s free - to - use ATM network , particularly in the light of interest rate increase and the rise cost of labour and distribution ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . of course , this issue have a disproportionate impact on rural community , where there be less choice of available atm . I shall certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern . if she be to apply for a debate , I be sure that it would be well attend . for over 10 year , 100 of my constituent at the Mill development in Ipswich have be in limbo , unable to move on with their life , re - mortgage or sell their property , because the Mill have deep structural and clad problem . the previous creditor - freeholder be the National Asset Management Agency — the irish entity create to recoup loss to the irish taxpayer after the banking crisis . some £ 15 million receive from a court case be mean to be spend on clad remediation , but NAMA , before it wash its hand of the development , take the vast bulk of that money . what have happen to it ? we do not know . do the Leader of the House agree that that be a deeply immoral way for that entity to behave ? it have cause immense anxiety and distress to my constituent , who , after 10 year , feel that the situation have move backwards , not forwards . will she advise I on what step I should take and on whether my right hon . friend the Prime Minister might raise the matter with his counterpart in Ireland ? I be very sorry to hear about the ongoing situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency . question to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will be on Monday , and he may wish to raise it directly with the Secretary of State then . give the international dimension to the matter , I shall certainly ensure that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be brief . if my hon . friend would like to give I further information , I will ensure that it be pass to the relevant Minister . may we have a debate on BBC impartiality ? surely we can not have BBC presenter use their on - air status to espouse fake news about Israel , or to make scurrilous suggestion about the Prime Minister ' s motivation , as have be describe in the Daily Telegraph today . it publish a well research piece of journalism on the subject , have trawl through the social medium of some BBC journalist and personnel . Anti - Israel bile and bias be there for all to see . what be we go to do about the BBC ? I think we all want our national broadcaster to be the good in the world , and we want its editorial standard and policy , and those who work for it , to be the good in the world . the BBC be operationally independent , but I hope it will reflect on what have happen over the past few week . I hope it will look at what it can do , perhaps through training , and at what be happen with its editorial team and those who work for it in the field , so that the british public can rely on get impartial , good advice , produce to the high journalistic standard . the BBC be usually very good at these sort of thing , but there be certainly question that I , as a licence fee payer , would want answer in this respect . this be National Tree Week , and it be also 50 year since Conservative MP Sydney Chapman suggest the " Plant a tree in ' 73 " campaign . it be even more important now that we preserve our woodland and plant productive forest for sustainable manufacturing and construction . what conversation have my right hon . Friend have with Cabinet colleague on the deforestation due diligence legislation that we commit to in the Environment Act 2021 , and on its progression through the House , and what other step can I take to assist on this issue ? I thank my hon . friend for mention Sydney Chapman and his campaign ; it be nice to know of the legacy that member of this place can leave . my hon . friend will know that we be committed to implement the provision that she mention at the early opportunity through secondary legislation . we also recognise that business need clarity on their obligation , so that they can prepare to meet they . question to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be on 7 December , next week , so she may wish to raise her point directly with the Secretary of State then . although the Government ' s decision to reduce air passenger duty have boost regional aviation , further reform of public service obligation route be still require if we be to maximise the use of regional airport , such as Blackpool airport . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate on reform pso , and may we have a debate on how we can support regional airport and regional aviation ? regional airport be absolutely vital to local economy , and they be one of the thing that make we very attractive to inward investor . this be an important matter . the hon . Member will know that he can raise it directly with the Secretary of State for Transport on 14 December , and I encourage he to do so . I know that my right hon . friend will share my concern about teenage suicide . this week , David Smith and Hilary Rabbett , the parent of 17 - year - old George , come to Parliament to launch their new charity , I ' m George ' s Mate . it seek to raise awareness of mental health issue and to provide suicide prevention course in school and college . George tragically attempt suicide in May this year . he have be support by his mate , who be regularly visit he as he regain consciousness . will my right hon . friend join I in raise awareness of this incredible new charity , which will be of interest to colleague right across the House ? may we have a debate on what more can be do for our young people on suicide prevention ? I thank my hon . friend for give we all the opportunity to welcome I ' m George ' s mate — it sound like a wonderful initiative , and all credit and praise be due to his constituent David and Hilary for the work they be do on that . he will know that the new five - year suicide prevention strategy for England , which be publish in September , set out our ambition to reduce suicide within two and a half year , together with over 100 action to make that happen . however , we will only be able to do so through the like of David and Hilary and that grassroots action , provide the support that people need , include peer support . we have back our plan with £ 10 million in a new grant fund , and it be precisely those sort of community organisation and social enterprise that we be think of when we set it up . nineteen year ago today , at the age of nine year old , I wake up to the news that my beautiful mum have die . she have an illness — she be an alcoholic . my story of this loss through addiction be not an isolated case . while I welcome the Government ' s harm to hope strategy and the funding for local authority , more need to be do to provide wraparound care and support for the family of those who have an addiction . will my right hon . friend support a debate in Government time to see what further action can be take to support people with addiction , so that we stop other lose love one far soon than they should ? can I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , and say that we be all think of she today in particular ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] she will know well than anyone the impact that alcoholism and its health aspect can have on family , and on child in particular . I thank she for share her personal story today , which will help raise awareness and shine a spotlight on the importance of these service . my hon . friend rightly acknowledge that the Government have make additional investment in this area . I also salute the healthcare professional around the country who be do fantastic work , introduce alcohol screening service at accident and emergency and elsewhere in area where there be high prevalence of these issue . we need to do more on that front : the Government be tackle a number of issue in our legislative programme , include smoking , but alcohol abuse remain a huge concern for many people in this nation , and we must continue to be vigilant and see what more we can do to help family in that situation . in Rugby , we be do our part to build the home that the country need for the future , and as a consequence , my constituency be the fast growing in the west midland . we have see new school and road — all deliver ahead of schedule — but we need our local health provision to expand as well . on recent visit to Rugby , Health Ministers have hear the case for enhanced urgent and emergency care provision at Rugby ' s Hospital of St Cross in order to support that grow population . may we have a debate to consider how all aspect of infrastructure may be deliver in a timely fashion ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all the work he and his constituent have be do to help the regeneration of his local area . it be vital that local health service and other service can keep pace with such growth . as my hon . friend know , his local integrate care board have see its funding increase substantially — it be over £ 1 . 6 billion this year . that ICB be well place to make decision about where that money need to be spend , but I will also make sure that my hon . friend ' s concern have be hear by the Secretary of State for Health , so that she may be able to help he and ensure that the provision he wish to see be there , particularly in accident and emergency . I be delighted that the Government have listen to I and respond positively to my campaigning for funding for the rural enterprise hub in my constituency , with the Chancellor award we £ 7 million as part of the autumn statement . that be a real shot in the arm for our rural community , provide job and an economic boost : it be truly level up in action . level up should be for the whole of the United Kingdom — town , city and rural area ; north , south , east and west — which be exactly what this Conservative Government be ensure . can we please find time for a debate on the impact and benefit of level up for both rural and urban area ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his success in his campaign , and I congratulate everyone who have work on the rural enterprise hub in his constituency . he articulate absolutely correctly the ambition that be set out in the levelling up White Paper . he will know that the second rural - proof report , " deliver for rural England " , which be publish in September last year , show a vision for what level up would look like in area such as his , and we be determined to deliver that . he will also know that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs in particular have do some further work on unleash rural opportunity , and through that we will continue to build on all the work we do in the original White Paper . I encourage he to speak to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on Monday to further the additional ask I know he have . I recently meet representative of the Bishopton Villages Action Group , who be concern about plan for a raft of separate solar farm that would collectively cover almost 2 , 500 acre of this small community , change the character of this beautiful rural area and take away prime agricultural land . will my right hon . friend grant a debate in Government time on how we can ensure that the community impact of multiple solar farm in close proximity be give proper consideration in the planning process ? my hon . friend be right to raise this matter , and I know that other member in this House have similar view , so it be a prime candidate for a debate , and I would encourage he to apply for one . I know that many member want to support campaign and further activity to ensure that we be make good use of agricultural land , grow more and support our farmer and food producer . he be run a very important campaign , and if there be anything I can do to support he in that , ask and it shall be so . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in this Chamber on police ? we have see systemic failure in the Met police , as evidence to the Home Affairs Committee , of which I be a member , and West Midlands police have now in fact be put into special measure . could we revisit the effectiveness of police and crime commissioner and how they hold police leadership to account ? the system be clearly not quite work well in the midland and London , and probably elsewhere . this be a very serious matter . I understand that , under the police and crime commissioner ' s watch , knife crime in the west midland have increase by almost a fifth in the last year , and the police be fail in many other area as well . I know my hon . friend , like many other , support Andy Street take ownership of the West Midlands police . his constituent and other deserve well , and I know that this matter be be look at by the Home Secretary , who have describe it as a total " failure of leadership " from Labour ' s West Midlands police crime and commissioner . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) bill : allocation of Time Ordered , that the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill — Timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at today ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) proceeding on second read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( c ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) proceeding on the Bill shall stand postpone while the question be put , in accordance with Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( money resolution and way and mean resolution in connection with bill ) , on any financial resolution relate to the Bill ; ( c ) on the conclusion of proceeding on any financial resolution relate to the Bill , proceeding on the Bill shall be resume and the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 3 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 4 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 5 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 6 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( d ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 4 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 8 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 9 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 8 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 10 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 11 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 10 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 13 ) Standing Order No . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on the Bill . ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) ( a ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply in respect of any such debate . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) ( a ) any private business which have be set down for consideration at a time fall after the commencement of proceeding on this order or on the Bill on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the Day shall , instead of be consider as provide by Standing Orders or by any order of the House , be consider at the conclusion of the proceeding on the Bill on that day . ( b ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to the private business so far as necessary for the purpose of secure that the business may be consider for a period of three hour . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the morning of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the afternoon of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this be a landmark moment : the economy have turn a corner . have rightly support people through covid with £ 400 billion of spend and then £ 100 billion over the winter to support people with energy cost , we on the Government side of the House know that we have to pay back what we have borrow . the Labour party oppose every single measure to do that , and every difficult decision , but because of those difficult decision , we be in the position we be in today . because of those difficult decision , the Chancellor can put forward an autumn statement that focus on grow our economy , support business and , crucially , cut taxis , and that be what we be here to talk about today . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury tell the House , for the record , how many Labour Back Benchers be here for this milestone debate ? I think by my count none , which be unfortunate and I think speak to their lack of the commitment to cut tax that we have on this side of the House . the Bill will cut taxis for 29 million work people . it have three measure : the reduction in national insurance contribution in class 1 primary main rate ; the reduction of the NICs class 4 main rate ; and the removal of the requirement to pay class 2 nic . we be prioritise national insurance for two key reason . first , we want to put more money in the pocket of work family , and nic be the most targeted way to do that . secondly , well reward for work make work more appealing , and the more people work , the more there be a boost in growth . let I take the House briefly through the measure in the Bill . the first be the reduction in the employee class 1 NICs main rate , which the Chancellor announce in the autumn statement . by reduce the main rate by two percentage point , from 12 % to 10 % , on earning between £ 12 , 570 and £ 50 , 270 , we will cut taxis for more than 27 million employee . that will save the average worker more than £ 450 a year , and they will see the benefit in their payslip right at the start of the new year , as this legislation will come into effect on 6 January . I thank the Minister , and the Government , for what they be bring forward . the cut in national insurance in the autumn statement be a welcome step , and my constituent tell I that . unfortunately , many be also say that the average work - class family , include many in my constituency , will still be face the high taxation level . I be not be churlish , not for one second — I want to make that clear — but can the Minister encourage I and my constituent that there be more to offer from the autumn statement and that those people have more to gain ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the opportunity to talk about this , because it be important . taxis for the average worker will have go down by £ 1 , 000 since 2010 . we have not hide from the fact that we have to make some very difficult decision to pay back our covid debt , and those have fall on the highest pay , because that be the value that we espouse as a party . because of those difficult decision , which be oppose every step of the way by the Opposition , we be able to cut taxis for everybody — that be what the value of Conservative Members be all about . we will cut and reform national insurance contribution for the self - employ by cut the class 4 rate by one percentage point from 9 % to 8 % from April 2024 . finally , we will remove the requirement for self - employ people with annual profit above the national income tax personal allowance of £ 12 , 570 to pay class 2 nic , also from April 2024 . those who pay voluntarily will still be able to do so , and I assure hon . member that low - pay self - employ people who make voluntary class 2 contribution will not pay more . the Bill simplify the system for self - employ taxpayer , bring it close to the system for employee , and not only put more money in their pocket but reduce the administrative burden . as a result of change in the Bill , a self - employ person who be currently require to pay class 2 nic every week will save at least £ 192 per year . take together with the cut to class 4 nic , an average self - employ person on £ 28 , 200 will see a total saving of £ 350 in 2024 - 25 . that will benefit around 2 million people . importantly , those with profit under the small profit threshold of £ 6 , 725 and who pay class 2 nic voluntarily to get access to contributory benefit , include the state pension , will continue to be able to do so . the Government be commit to tax cut that reward and incentivise work , and that grow the economy in a sustainable way . these measure do just that . the Office for Budget Responsibility state that the autumn statement package will reduce inflation next year , and measure in the Bill will be worth more than £ 9 billion a year , the large ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance . a vote for these measure be a vote to give 29 million people an average yearly saving of more than £ 450 . these reduction in tax will not only benefit those in work ; accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , they will lead to the equivalent of almost 100 , 000 people enter work , because they will ensure that work pay and will drive more people to seek employment . there be another point here , and that be about choice . I hope that the opposition will support these measure today , if only for the reason I have already set out . the public support they and business support they . if the opposition do not support they , it will represent a choice . the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , have often speak of her fiscal rule that will have debt fall in the final year of the next Parliament . at the autumn statement last week , the OBR confirm that public sector net debt be set to fall in that final year , with headroom of £ 30 billion . implement the permanent tax relief for business investment , plus the legislation before the House today , represent a choice to use around £ 20 billion of that £ 30 billion of headroom on these measure . there be a path here , if the opposition want it , to deliver the £ 28 billion a year . they could use up every penny of headroom , reject full expensing and reject today ' s tax cut , but what they can not do — what the OBR , the financial market and every secondary school math textbook will not let they do — be vote for our policy today , borrow an extra £ 28 billion a year and still meet their own fiscal rule . the number simply do not add up . that be what I mean by choice . the Opposition have to choose . do they stick to their plan to borrow an extra £ 28 billion a year , which the Institute for Fiscal Studies say risk send inflation , interest rate and mortgage rate up , or do they choose our plan to bring inflation down , taxis down and debt down ? they can not have it both way . if the shadow Treasury team have no answer today , it will fall to the Leader of the Opposition to grasp the issue . rather than anonymous briefing to the BBC over the weekend , he will have to make a choice . that be the difference between be the party of opposition and be the party of government : credibility with the public over credibility with their activist . this Bill represent the choice make on this side of the House . I have speak at length about why we have make they . I hope that the shadow Financial Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , can inform we honestly and straightforwardly on which side of those choice his party will land . if he can not , we can all conclude , as Lord Mandelson himself say only a few month back , that Labour be not ready to be the party of government . I commend the Bill to the House . whatever the Chancellor say last week and whatever the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say today , the truth be that the Conservatives can not hide from the fact when it come to the level of taxation in Britain today . the inescapable truth face family across the UK , and the truth that the Government can not hide from , be that under the Conservatives , the tax burden in Britain be on course to reach its high level since the second world war . as the Resolution Foundation make clear in its blunt analysis of measure in the autumn statement , personal taxis be go up , not down . any cut to personal taxation announce last week be more than eclipse by hike in tax that this Government have announce before ; the freezing of national insurance and income tax threshold for six year be now expect to cost taxpayer £ 45 billion . they be not just give with one hand and take with the other ; it be bad than that . as I say last week , it be as if the Conservatives have nick someone ' s car but then expect they to be grateful when they pay for the bus fare home . do the hon . Gentleman recognise the context in which the autumn statement be make ? be he not a cheerleader for the furlough scheme and the financial support provide during covid and the energy price shock ? do he recognise that that need to be recover but , because of the difficult decision we have take , we be now in a position to reduce taxis ? the context in which the autumn statement be make be 13 year of conservative economic failure . there have be 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone and the tax burden be set to rise to its high since the second world war . that be the context that the british people be face , and that be the context in which the autumn statement be make . the impact on people across Britain be brutal . as a result of the Conservatives ' decision on personal taxation , household will be leave face an average tax rise of £ 1 , 200 from the Government . look across all taxis , we know that , by the end of the decade , taxis in the UK will have rise by the astonishing equivalent of £ 4 , 300 for every household in the country . that be the context in which we be debate the Bill ' s Second Reading . let I make it clear for the benefit of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury that Labour welcome the cut in national insurance that the Bill include . we believe that taxis on work people be too high , and we have long say that we want to see they come down when they can be cut in an economically and fiscally responsible way . we will support the Bill , but we believe that the Government need to be honest with people . the Conservatives need to be honest and admit that they be responsible for the big hit to living standard on record , and that this have be the big tax - raise Parliament that our country have ever see . this be not the first time we have debate national insurance rate in this Parliament . just over two year ago , I stand here , opposite the Financial Secretary ' s predecessor — more accurately , his predecessor ' s predecessor ' s predecessor ' s predecessor — to debate second reading of the Health and Social Care Levy Bill . that Bill introduce , in 2022 - 23 , a 1 . 25 percentage point increase in national insurance contribution for employee and employer — an increase that we rightly describe at the time as " a new tax on work people and their job . " — [ Official Report , 14 September 2021 ; Vol . 700 , c . 845 . ] hon . member may recall that when the Government publish that legislation , their own tax information and impact note on that tax rise confirm : " there may be an impact on family formation , stability or breakdown as individual , who be currently just about manage financially , will see their disposable income reduce . " we oppose that legislation , and it be clear to a wide coalition , include the Federation of Small Businesses , the British Chambers of Commerce , the CBI and the TUC , that it be the worst possible tax rise at the bad possible time . as time go on , the then Chancellor — now the Prime Minister — realise that he have make a mistake . he try to make a partial u - turn in last year ' s spring statement by increase national insurance threshold , yet the Institute for Fiscal Studies quickly point out that that move would not undo damage already do . its director , Paul Johnson , confirm : " almost all worker will be pay more tax on their earning in 2025 than they would have be pay without this parliament ' s reform to income tax and national insurance contribution , despite the tax - cut measure announce today . " later last year , the 1 . 25 percentage point national insurance rise be finally reverse , yet , as we know only too well , any benefit that many family may have hope to gain from that u - turn be rapidly eclipse by the Tory mortgage penalty , follow the Conservatives ' catastrophic mishandling of the economy . the impact of that recklessness be still with we today , as mortgage holder across the country face a hit of £ 220 a month when their current deal end . the truth be that whatever the Conservatives do , they keep make work people bad off . that have be true over the 13 year that they have be in power , it have be true over the past two year of change to national insurance , and it will be true after the Bill become law . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have be try desperately to paint today ' s national insurance cut as the answer to the cost of living crisis . last week , she claim that " taxis for the average worker have go down by £ 1 , 000 " . — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 360 . ] I believe she repeat that claim today , yet analysis by the House of Commons Library make it clear that national insurance and income tax on the median earner will rise from £ 6 , 112 in 2010 - 11 to £ 7 , 364 in 2024 - 25 . will she confirm — or will the Financial Secretary confirm on her behalf — whether she stand by her early remark and explain exactly how those figure be calculate ? the experience of people across Britain be very different from the picture that she be try to paint . perhaps the answer to the question of the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury be that the income tax starting point have double from around £ 6 , 000 to more than £ 12 , 000 . that provide the extra £ 1 , 000 take - home pay every year that he be puzzle about . the hon . Gentleman promote I inadvertently , as I be the shadow Financial Secretary to the Treasury , but I thank he for his vote of confidence . our point be that today ' s tax cut , which we support , must be see in the context of 13 year of the Conservatives in power : 13 year of economic failure , with 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone and the tax burden on course to be the high since the second world war . whatever the Chief Secretary to the Treasury might say , people across Britain be experience life very differently from how she paint it . however welcome the measure in the Bill may be , they come after 25 tax rise in this Parliament alone . the british people will not be fool . no matter what statistic the Government contrive or the gloss they try to put on their record , people across Britain need ask themselves just one question : do they and their family feel well off now than they do 13 year ago ? the answer be a resound no . at last week ' s autumn statement , we learn not only that the tax burden be still on track to be the high since the war and that inflation have be revise upward across the entire forecast period , but that growth rate have be cut for next year , the year after , and the year after that . it take some gall for the Chancellor to say that he be deliver an " autumn statement for growth " — comment repeat today by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury — since the Office for Budget Responsibility report that next year ' s growth rate have be cut by more than half . low growth have dog our country for the past 13 year . the autumn statement make it clear that the Conservatives still have no plan to get our economy grow as it should . since 2010 , under the Conservatives , GDP growth have be stick at an average of 1 . 5 % a year , down from 2 % in the labour year before . if the economy have continue to grow for the past 13 year at the rate it grow under Labour , it would be £ 150 billion large — the equivalent of £ 5 , 000 per household every year . as we all know , because of that low growth , the Conservatives have have to keep put up taxis on work people . low growth and high taxis have make people across Britain bad off . that be the reality of the past 13 year of the Conservatives in power . the Bill ' s tax cut can not even remotely compensate for the damage they have do to our economy and the living standard of people across Britain . although we support today ' s tax cut , we know that our country need economic growth to make work people well off and to get our public service off the floor . that be the plan from Labour . we be the party of fiscal responsibility and of business , with a plan to make work people well off . come the next election — it can not come soon enough — people across Britain will look at the Conservatives ' record and the bleak achievement they will claim . in this Parliament , real disposable household income will have fall the furth , follow 20 year of pay stagnation . real average earning be not forecast to return to their 2008 peak until 2028 . four million people have be drag into pay tax , with 3 million more in the high rate — the big hit to income on record . next year , real - term income will be 3 . 5 % low than it be before the pandemic . this the big tax - raise Parliament Britain have ever see . whatever the conservative say or do , and whichever way they try to twist and turn , reality have catch up with they . we have be here before . we remember the Conservatives promise to cut income tax ahead of the 1997 election . back then , people decide that it be too little , too late , come as it do after 22 tax rise in that Parliament . as this Parliament approach its end , today ' s conservative party be show itself to be even more divided and desperate than in the late ' 90 . as the next election draw near and the Conservatives try to cling on to power , the risk grow that they will get more desperate with their promise and more reckless with taxpayer ' money . Britain need a plan to get the economy grow and make work people well off . that be what Labour be offer and why a general election can not come soon enough . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I be not sure that I have ever hear a more grudging shadow Front Bench speech on measure that the Opposition support . they support they so wholeheartedly today that none of their Back Benchers have show up to speak to they . I endorse the measure in the legislation . the Chief Secretary be right to point to the turning point that the UK economy have reach this year , thank to the step take a year ago to ensure that fiscal policy do not cut across the central bank ' s aim to reduce inflation to its target . thank to that , inflation , which might have be as high as 13 % last year , have fall to 4 . 6 % . that mean that today , the earning of the average UK worker be rise fast than the rate of inflation . we be see real earning growth . that be the turning point that I be talk about . the shadow Minister and the Chief Secretary both talk about the choice that the Chancellor could make on this occasion . in the evidence that the Treasury Committee take this week on the autumn statement , we see the clear impact of the Chancellor ' s choice on two long - stand challenge for the UK economy : slow productivity growth and the fact that not everyone have return to work since the pandemic . when we get to the Finance Bill , I will expatiate far on the supply - side measure on the labour market and permanent full expensing , but today I will focus on the national insurance contribution element , which the Office for Budget Responsibility also consider to be a supply - side measure . in the evidence that we take , we hear from the member of the Office for Budget Responsibility , Professor David Miles , that the choice to go for the national insurance contribution reduction in the autumn statement create a " definite positive " as an incentive to work . the OBR forecast that it will bring close to 100 , 000 full - time equivalent extra worker back into the workforce . that be so important . Paul Johnson from the Institute for Fiscal Studies note in his evidence that , compare with a similar cut in income tax rate , a cut to national insurance be more progressive . it benefit people in work , but only on their earning up to £ 50 , 000 . that be important context for the choice that the Chancellor take . I also welcome the simplification of taxis — a concept our Committee be commit to . far too many thing in our tax system act as disincentive to do an extra hour of work . there be too many complicated withdrawal rate . the step take on class 2 and class 4 contribution represent a simplification of the tax system . interestingly , we be tell in our evidence session that the change to class 2 and class 4 reduce " the incentive for people to incorporate to gain a tax advantage . " we should have a tax system that be broadly neutral on those two thing . Professor Miles tell we that he think that the national insurance cut be " unambiguously " a more positive incentive to work . the Office for Budget Responsibility do not see the measure as inflationary . he also say that " some people at the margin who think it perhaps be not worth work might now be persuade to actively try to get a job " , and that the measure will help retain people in the labour force . to conclude my short remark on the narrow measure in the Bill , I want to focus on the evidence that we have receive on the choice that the Chancellor take on national insurance , and how that be very much focused on the structural challenge that the UK economy face . I call the SNP spokesperson . we have hear an awful lot about choice at the start of this debate . what be abundantly clear for family in Scotland and across the nation of the UK be that the Government have choose to ignore the burn cost of living crisis that they put in place for family . let I be unequivocally clear from the outset that the Chancellor ' s attempt to masquerade the Bill as meaningful support for people be nothing short of a farce . I say to he at the statement that it would not bear scrutiny and it have not bear scrutiny . family in Scotland already grapple with the harsh reality of the soar cost of living be acutely aware of the UK Government ' s role in their deteriorate financial situation . no amount of Tory spin can disguise the stark truth of their policy , or the fact that those family be face with a future of perma - austerity under Westminster . the autumn statement be a critical opportunity for meaningful intervention . it be , to say the least , a profound disappointment . it offer scant relief to household across Scotland — household already beleaguer by the catastrophic decision of this UK Government . the audacity of the Chancellor in try to package the reduction in national insurance rate as a major tax cut be an insult to the intelligence of the scottish people . we be witness funding for public service push to breaking point due to year of real - term cut to the scottish budget . the Scottish Government have seek to protect worker and service , and be have to do that with diminish resource , yet the UK Government have shamefully neglect to prioritise investment in the NHS and other public service , which will , accord to the OBR , see a cut of £ 19 billion in the come year . the Bill , in legislate for the change to national insurance outline in the autumn statement , be a glaring example of the Government ' s disconnect from the reality on the ground . the change announce by the Chancellor , some to take effect from January onwards , be a mere drop in the ocean of what be urgently need now by family struggle with rampant food price increase , punish increase in rent and mortgage , and the dreaded prospect of another winter with soar energy bill . the Government could have listen to our plea to provide a £ 400 energy bill rebate , to reduce the price cap and more . instead , they will preside over a 5 % increase in the energy price cap to land on 1 January — hardly a happy new year for those who can not afford now to switch on the heating . let we dissect the fact . the main rate of nic for employee be to be cut from 12 % to 10 % , a change affect those earn between £ 12 , 571 and £ 50 , 271 . for the self - employ , the rate drop from 9 % to 8 % , with the flat - rate NIC charge also be scrap for some . on paper , those change might appear beneficial , but in reality they be superficial . the Resolution Foundation ' s Torsten Bell aptly note that " taxis be up not down " . this be no generous gift to the public ; it be a thinly veil attempt at distraction . the Institute for Fiscal Studies highlight a concern trend : despite these nominal cut , we be face the most significant rise in taxis in recent memory . the tax threshold freeze since 2021 will largely , if not entirely , counteract any benefit of the Chancellor ' s 2p cut to NICs next year . for someone with average full - time earning , that mean a saving of £ 449 in NI contribution , but an increase of £ 413 due to the unchanged tax threshold . the Chancellor ' s so - call giveaway then amount to a paltry £ 36 for the average earner — a far cry from the over £ 450 boast about today . from the detrimental effect of austerity to the chaos of Brexit and now the mismanagement of the cost of living crisis , it be abundantly clear that the Westminster Government be a liability for the work people of Scotland . they be leave to shoulder the burden of Westminster ' s disastrous decision . our public service , the very foundation of our society , be under threat . the Chancellor ' s spending plan , particularly his silence on they post March 2025 , signal a disturbing turbo - boost of austerity . the OBR ' s report ring alarm bell . the UK Government ' s fiscal strategy be shroud in uncertainty and wishful thinking . the Scottish Government be hand a real - term reduction in the block grant , yet be expect , miraculously , to maintain public service with , for example , a health budget increase of less than 0 . 01 % for 2024 - 25 . inflation sit , even today , at 4 . 7 % , so that NHS money equate to only £ 10 . 8 million blow away by inflation before it arrive , leave only the cold sting of a sharp cut in reality . the autumn statement and the Bill will serve as stark reminder that Westminster government be fundamentally misalign with the value and need of the people of Scotland . our aspiration for a fair , just and prosperous society can not be realise under such governance . independence remain the only viable path to ensure the wellbeing and prosperity of the scottish people . in conclusion , it be imperative that the Government acknowledge their failing , even at this late stage , and take decisive step to truly support household and public service across the nation and in Scotland . until such time , we in the SNP will remain unwavering in call for real help for people struggle with rise rent and mortgage , struggle to pay for their shopping , and terrify of the cost of their energy bill this winter . our value be to champion the interest of the scottish people to safeguard our community and the family who live in they . we will continue to call for the real power of independence to deliver on they . it be a pleasure to speak , very briefly , in this debate . my starting point be the concern I feel , when I listen to my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer make his autumn statement and highlight this aspect of the measure he be take , to hear cry of " not much " and " big deal " from some on the Opposition Benches . it be important to reflect that even if we be look solely at the class 2 national insurance contribution element , the amount that add to a household income equate to more than the cost of a child ' s school uniform for a year . it be a quarter of what the average household in the UK spend on Christmas . these be significant amount of money for a good many of our constituent . indeed , for one of my constituent who be affect by the ultra low emission zone policy , it would even pay their ULEZ charge for a fortnight . take in concert with the rest of the measure , it will make a significant difference to many household budget and ensure that people have more money in their pocket in the new year . I represent a constituency that , accord to the ONS , be very much a constituency of worker . we enjoy a very high level of employment and self - employment , a very low level of unemployment and , I be very pleased to say , high household income on average than the rest of the UK . but within that , there be many , many worker — those who be begin their career , or who have face unstable employment — for whom this will make a real and practical difference . for that reason alone , I enormously welcome the measure we will be vote on today . I would like to offer the Chief Secretary and the Treasury team an issue for consideration , which arise out of something I see in my constituency . it have be the subject of a lot of debate in this House in the last week or so . in 2019 , the Conservatives stand on a manifesto that set a target of an additional 600 , 000 foreign student come into the UK . that manifesto commitment have be achieve . we know that it earn we , in foreign currency income , around £ 35 billion a year . it be a big earner for the United Kingdom than our oil and gas industry , so it be incredibly important to our economy . part of the thinking behind it be that many of those worker would become long - term resident of the UK , especially in area of great need : our national health service , caring profession and the technology industry . I hear from a good many constituent about the challenge they still face recruit those worker to ensure that my constituent who need an operation can get it on time and that business can grow . Home Office figure show that a very large proportion of those people leave the United Kingdom at the conclusion of their study , but that some stay . concern have be express about whether those who transition into work after be foreign student or those who be here for a brief period on a working visa and subsequently move abroad pay a sufficient amount into the UK economy to cover the cost of the benefit they may well receive . right hon . and hon . member have highlight those who come to the UK under care worker visa , but who bring with they dependant who have significant health and educational cost . would the Treasury team , in due course , give consideration to set a differential rate of national insurance contribution for those who come to the UK on those type of visa , in line with the measure already take of charge those apply for those visa a significantly high fee and the national health surcharge ? it would then become absolutely clear to everyone in this country that people who be here for a short period will pay a contribution that reflect the potential benefit available to they , whereas those who be lifelong citizen , for whom those cost will be spread out across their entire work life , will enjoy the benefit of a low rate ? every country in the developed world have face a similar set of challenge around interest rate and cost of living . we all know what the reason be : the impact of covid and the impact of rise US interest rate , which set basic interest rate and mortgage rate across the whole of the developed world . however , as my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) say , the turning point have clearly be reach . Most of we can see and feel in our constituency the sign of a return to growth and a sense of prosperity . the fact that wage be now rise ahead of inflation be hugely significant to the living standard of all people , but especially to those on low income the measure I be here to support today be incredibly important . I commend the Treasury team for bring they forward . it be a pleasure to join this debate , albeit one attend by literally zero back Benchers of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . this debate and the change to national insurance raise narrow issue of the amount of tax be pay by our constituent , wide issue relate to the question pose by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) — " be you well off today than you be in 2010 ? " — and broad still question about the value and purpose of life and what matter most to our constituent . I shall touch on all three in turn . on the narrow issue , the national insurance payment moot in the Bill , there be widespread agreement that they be good news for our constituent , because they mean low tax . it be recognise that there be social justice in the measure , because they be not applicable to those earn more than £ 50 , 000 a year . we already know that no party in this House will oppose they . on the narrow issue , therefore , the Chancellor , the Treasury and those involve in create the Bill have clearly get it right . as my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) point out , this can easily be see to be one of the measure by which we judge a turning point in the wide economy . after all , only a few month ago there be widespread expectation that the economy would be in recession , unemployment would be rise , taxis would be increase , and there be very little wiggle room for the public finance to be see to improve . all those thing have be turn around . none of we can say with certainty that we be in full summer , but the green shoot be evident and thing be change . on the broad issue of what we measure to answer the question , " be our constituent well off today than in 2010 ? " there be different aspect . I suspect the shadow Minister have most clearly in mind a simple calculation of whether salary net of inflation be high or low , and if we take that on its own , it will be a challenge for many Government member to demonstrate that the answer be yes . for my constituent in Gloucester , average take - home pay have rise from £ 25 , 000 to £ 31 , 000 , but their salary have not keep up with increase in inflation . that be only part of the equation though ; we need to take into account all the different form of taxation , which include council tax . it be a clich é but true that council tax rise fast and be high in labour - run council , whereas the Conservative - run council in Gloucester have do a good job of keep it as low as possible over the last 14 year . then , there be the question of take - home pay . as I point out to the shadow Minister , because income tax now apply only at £ 12 , 500 , rather than at just over £ 6 , 000 , the take - home pay element have increase by £ 1 , 000 . other than that relatively straightforward financial calculation , there be many measure on which I hope all of we would want to answer " yes " to the question , " be you well off today than you be in 2010 ? I shall pick out a few of these crucial indicator , because they be relevant to the wide context of the Bill . the Centre for Cities report be an excellent source of datum for those who live in city , so let I highlight a few element of what its late report say about Gloucester . we be one of the 10 low city for economic inactivity . in effect , we have low unemployment and high employment — in fact , our be the third high employment rate , have rise last year from 76 % to 84 % , a 7 . 5 % increase . the regional average be 79 % , so we be way ahead of the south - west ' s average . that mean that many more people have purpose in their life — they have occupation they can thrive in ; they be bread - earner at home and useful role model for their child — and the city as a whole have a strong sense of purpose . it be often forget , but many people remember vividly that their job be keep by the £ 400 billion spend during by the pandemic . the furlough scheme ensure that during the pandemic people could shelter at home , confident that their job would still be there , and those who have their own business know that the vast majority of those business would undoubtedly have go bankrupt during the pandemic . the small businessman and woman , the self - employ , the entrepreneur , all come through that period intact , whereas under a different scheme that would have cost taxpayer ' less , they would have struggle . the question , " be you well off today than in 2010 ? " need to encapsulate other question : " be your business able to survive ? be your job keep ? be you still able to be self - employ during a period when so many people around the world be struggle horribly ? " we in Gloucester be extraordinary in that our city have one of the very low percentage of population with no formal qualification . in fact , extraordinarily , Gloucester have few people with no formal qualification than Cambridge , and we be only 1 % behind Oxford . the skill of my constituent be different from many of those in Oxford or Cambridge . a large number of our people be highly skilled with high apprenticeship work in industry like aerospace , nuclear and high - level engineering . those occupation , apprenticeship and high apprenticeship have increase hugely over the last 13 or 14 year and be seriously threaten by the prospect — any prospect — of a Labour Government . let I illustrate that statistically . since 2010 , there have be almost 15 , 000 new apprenticeship start in Gloucester — 15 , 000 in a population of about 100 , 000 . the run rate of apprenticeship nationally — 5 . 5 million new apprenticeship since 2010 — would have be almost halve under the labour run rate between 2005 and 2010 . be labour ' s current proposal on apprenticeship spending to go through , it have be suggest that 140 , 000 apprenticeship would no long exist . therefore , the skill that my constituent have , which be be valuably use in lead sector that be be support by the Treasury and this Government , would be at serious risk under a new Government who do not value apprenticeship so highly . the question , " be you well off today than you be in 2010 ? " could also be rephrase , " what will happen to your skill , your purpose , your job and your future earning under the change propose by the Labour party , which be so sadly absent here today ? " there be different issue that we need to consider in answer the question , " be you well off today ? " education be vital for all of we , and everyone in the country need to be more aware that our PISA ranking have rise from 25th to fourth in reading and from 27th to 16th in mathematic . I might be one off on both , but it be a significant leap forward . those skill be vital to all our young constituent get the opportunity they deserve . within infrastructure , there be the whole question of public transport . Gloucester have additional train service to Bristol , Worcester and down to London . there be a wide range of service , sport , culture and leisure , and cultural regeneration and the role of heritage be incredibly important to any city . Gloucester ' s more than 40 win from the National Lottery Heritage Fund have bring alive our old building and rebuild pride in the city . these thing be all part of answering , " be you well off today than you be in 2010 ? be where you live a well place today than it be in 2010 ? " national insurance contribution be come down sharply , which will mean an average saving of around £ 350 to each of my constituent and £ 450 for those on salary over £ 35 , 000 . all of that will be appreciate , but it be about the wide context in which it happen : the gradual recovery and the sense of green shoot come through after a difficult year . that be important , and then there be the wide context of what have be achieve over the last 13 to 14 year . we must all take that into careful consideration . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) on his remark . he provide a lot of sensible context for this debate and I will address some of his helpful point shortly . it be very unusual to talk about fiscal matter , or fiscal legislation , to an almost empty Chamber . it be unheard of during my time in Parliament . as my hon . friend will know , back in 2010 , after the financial crisis , when we have to consider the long - term economic plan to build back our economy and to restore fiscal competence , there be many long , heated debate , and rightly so , in which proper scrutiny be give not just to Bills and legislation but to an exposition on the state we be in and how we need to get ourselves back on to an even keel by grow the economy through conservative policy . that bring I to today ' s theme . conservative policy have , over the last decade , help to restructure the economy , rebuild our country and create job and economic growth . they have make we stand tall in the world once again . I remember , in 2010 , 2011 and 2012 , look at our financial rating with a degree of despair . thank goodness we be no long in that state , which I think we all welcome . I welcome this Bill and thank the Treasury and , in particular , my right hon . friend the Chancellor for bring it forward . any measure that bring down the tax burden should be welcome , because it represent a positive and constructive step in the right direction for our constituent . our constituent be taxpayer and , ultimately , they want to keep more of the money they earn , and they want to know that the Government be spend their money responsibly . reduce the class 1 primary rate from 12 % to 10 % will put money into people ' s pocket from 6 January — the soon , the well . I commend the Government for bring forward this vital fiscal measure . I be disappointed that there be not more colleague here to debate it , but that be just how Parliament be right now . the £ 450 benefit to a worker on the average salary will make an important difference to household . my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) put it succinctly when he speak about what it mean for household at this time of year and for domestic budget and spending . I be particularly pleased to see the elimination of the class 2 rate and the reduction of the class 4 rate , which will help the self - employ from the start of the new financial year . I never tire of come to this Chamber to say that I represent a constituency and a county of entrepreneur . we be self - starter . we be self - make people . we be very proud of the contribution that the people of Essex make to our country . they be net contributor to his Majesty ' s Treasury , which be all the more reason why they should get a tax cut . as a Government who believe in enterprise , economic growth and let people stand on their own two foot , we should do everything possible to support the self - employ and sole trader . it be hard work be a sole trader and be self - employ . we know about the regulatory burden and pressure that HMRC put on sole trader and the self - employ in particular , but they be the backbone and the engine of our economy ; they be the lifeblood that create job . some 80 % of my constituent be employ by small and medium - sized enterprise — that be 20 percentage point high than the national average — and we want they to continue to thrive and grow , as be right and proper . they be the embodiment of the entrepreneurial spirit that our country need to create growth . I sometimes feel that we do not always give they the voice they need . it be easy for the big company that can lobby central Government Departments to get their voice and representation hear . we be here for our constituent as their mp . even at business question this morning , Members speak about three family - run business . that be who we should be support . we have see a reduction in the number of self - employ people from around 5 million just before the pandemic to just over 4 million this year . that be why I believe we must back they , support they and encourage their growth . we should hold out that ladder of opportunity . where they need help and support , we should back they as a Government and as a country . I always come to this House to give a shameless plug for family - run and self - employ business in my constituency . it be also important that we buy british and support local firm in our country and in our constituency . it be important to remember that the self - employ contribute an estimate £ 278 billion to the economy , and the fiscal and supply measure will make it easy for they to trade . the ability to do business , to trade and to set up a business be so important . low taxis will mean that more people want to give it a go and set up a business . they be the one take a risk , so they be the people we should back and support . if we want to be healthy , competitive and drive growth , these be the very people who innovate and invest in new technology and do thing that be edgy and somewhat different , while provide vital service to so many of our constituent and be pioneer in certain sector . that be why keep taxis down should be at the core of our mission in government . as we have already align the class 1 and class 4 threshold , to match the tax - free threshold on income tax , we all welcome that the burden of national insurance contribution have be reduce for the self - employ . that be why I be disappointed that there be not more Opposition Members present . my right hon . friend be make a brilliant speech . I totally agree with she on the nic pay by employee and the self - employ . in Esher and Walton , the average employee will receive a tax cut of £ 589 a year , benefit 50 , 000 people . she be right that we be here to give a voice to the ambition and aspiration of local people in our constituency . aside from the Labour Benches be totally empty , there be not a single liberal Democrat Member here . be it not churlish that , at this particular time , they be not do more to support people on low and middle income ? my right hon . friend be right about that ; his observation be spot - on . he will recall that , as I say in my opening remark , when we have be in this Chamber to discuss important fiscal and economic measure , it have more often than not be to a full House . it be appal that when the Government be back work people and do the right thing for they by put more money in their pocket , the opposition be all hide . they be fail to recognise something that their constituent will benefit from . the opposition should be give a positive voice and support it , because it mean more job and growth in every constituency across the country . as parliamentarian , we should all welcome that . rise — order . the hon . Gentleman be quite late in and do not hear the beginning of the right hon . Lady ' s speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as have be mention , the alignment with the tax - free threshold should also help with the future plan to simplify the tax system . we have a bit of a discussion on this last week , but it be important in today ' s debate again to raise the prospect of simplify the tax system — more should be do in that area — by merge income tax and national insurance together . that be why I be disappointed that more Opposition Members be not here to discuss it . last week , we have a semi - healthy discussion about it . it be out of the scope of this Bill to table an amendment to bring those two taxis together , but I urge those on the Treasury Bench — I would also be happy to work with other colleague on this — to consider take that up in advance of the spring Budget . much more can be do here . such a move would simplify taxis for the entrepreneur and self - employ even far . as we know , when we come to the end of the tax year they be constantly have to do all sort of thing to satisfy his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . in 2012 , I ask the Treasury a write question on integrate those taxis , and the then Exchequer Secretary reply by state : " since Budget 2011 , the Government have engage extensively with stakeholder to develop option for operational integration of Income Tax and National Insurance Contributions . as many stakeholder have recognise , this be a complex issue with potentially significant implication for employer ' payroll operation . the Government will provide an update on this work later in the autumn . as we have already make clear , this be a long - term reform on which the Government will proceed carefully . " that be a long time ago — it be 11 year ago . although this be a complex issue , I maintain that such a move would help to simplify the tax system . I know that the Treasury Committee have look at this area , and my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) touch on it today . such a move would help to make payroll much easy for business , and allow they to co - ordinate income and revenue in a much more straightforward way . although this next issue may not be directly within the Bill ' s scope , it do relate to NICs . I would therefore like to take the opportunity to restate for Treasury Ministers the position on fiscal drag . the OBR forecast show that a freezing of the NICs threshold and the income tax threshold will , relative to consumer price index inflation , and after take into account the tax cut here , bring in an estimate £ 27 billion in the next fiscal year , 2024 - 25 , with this rise to nearly £ 45 billion more for the Exchequer in 2028 - 29 . the OBR be clear on that . minister know my view : as we go into spring next year , and as the economy grow and more revenue come in , I urge they to look at this area all over again . this Bill be welcome . it be a positive step in the right direction , along with the entire autumn statement . I commend my colleague for the work they have do on it . the speed at which the Government be act to bring forward the benefit of the NI change and get they into pay packet as early as possible be right ; it be commendable and should be support , as I hope it will be by all colleague in the House . the Government must continue to look at further step . we want more economic growth . we be pioneer when it come to innovation and small business . we need to find other way to lower taxis so that people can keep more of their earning and , importantly , we ensure that our economy be match - fit for the future so that it continue to grow . I call the shadow Minister . before I start , I want to say that we have hear during the debate that former Labour Chancellor Alistair Darling have die at the age of 70 . I be sure member will agree , no matter which side of the House they sit on , that he be a man who care deeply about people across the country , and that our thought be with he and his family today . the Government may want our constituent to believe that they be ease the burden on their pay packet , but the reality be that household have not give the state this much of their earning since the 1940 . despite the warm word that we have hear today on tax cut , household be now pay £ 4 , 000 more a year than they do under the previous Labour Government . this be a crippling tax burden for those struggle to make end meet through the cost of living crisis . despite today ' s commitment to reduce NI , as a result of the Tories ' decision on personal taxation , work people be leave face an average rise of £ 1 , 200 since 2010 . so although Labour support the measure put forward today to lighten the load that nic be place on our constituent , we should see this announcement for what it be : a cynical attempt to draw voter ' attention away from the fact that , under this Government , their living standard be go down and taxis be go up , while their wage continue to stagnate . as the british people already know , the promise make today can not compensate for the damage that have be do . the measure announce today be equivalent to hand back £ 1 for every £ 8 of the Conservatives ' tax rise since 2019 . the freeze in the personal allowance threshold mean that a couple on an average wage will still be a staggering £ 350 bad off per year , regardless of cut to personal taxation . the wide freezing of current threshold have confirm that an additional 4 million of the poor in society will now pay income tax by 2029 . the scorecard for last week ' s autumn statement be now in , and our lead independent economist do not seem that impressed . the OBR have confirm , follow the Chancellor ' s announcement , that real household disposable income will drop by 7 % next year . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) note , the head of the Institute for Fiscal Studies have also give a damn verdict , state that the NICs reduction that we have be debate today " pale into insignificance " compare with the threshold freeze announce by the Chancellor . accord to the late International Monetary Fund forecast , the UK will have the slow growth in the G7 next year . the Bank of England have confirm that there will likely be zero growth in the economy until 2025 . those be not figure that the Government should be proud of . if that economic backdrop be not bad enough , our constituent be also leave worry about how to pay for their mortgage and avoid have to sell the family home due to the reckless action of this Government . work family will see an average increase of £ 220 a month in mortgage cost because of the Tory mortgage bombshell , and 1 . 5 million household be also set to suffer as they desperately try to re - fix their mortgage deal next year . the Chancellor and other Conservative Members may want we to believe that the economy have turn a corner and that the cost of living crisis be over , but million of people be still struggle to make end meet . so of course we welcome the tax cut be debate today , but it be a drop in the ocean for work family who be still bear the brunt of this Government ' s economic decision . despite the desperate smoke and mirror we have see from the Chancellor , it be now clear that this government do not know how to find the solution to address the fundamental challenge face this country right now — all the challenge that our constituent be face day in , day out . after 13 year of failure , it be time that the Government get out of the way and let Labour deliver its plan for the economy and how to grow it again , get wage rise again and get Britain its future back . for all the warm word that we have hear today , if the Conservatives sincerely believe in their policy , they should ask the general public and call a general election as soon as possible . on behalf of the Government , I join the hon . member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) and the whole House in express our deep sympathy to the family and friend of Alistair Darling . I know he have many personal friend in the House who know he very well indeed . I never have the pleasure of interact with he here , but what an incredibly calm and dignified gentleman he be . perhaps that be something we can all reflect on . although the debate be somewhat one - sided , as most contribution come from the Government Benches , I thank all hon . member for their contribution . this important Bill deliver tax cut and reward and incentivise work , while grow the economy in a sustainable way . I will respond to many of the point raise . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) rightly point out the importance of look after the low pay and have a fair tax system , which we be deliver on . over the last 13 year , we have lift hundred of thousand of family out of poverty , and we have a progressive tax system where the top 1 % of taxpayer pay 28 % of all income tax . my right hon . friend the Member for Vale of Glamorgan ( Alun Cairns ) and my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) highlight the context in which the autumn statement be deliver and recognise the fact that we have face not one but two global crisis : the pandemic and the cost of living challenge . those challenge be not unique to the United Kingdom and , despite the myth peddle by the Opposition , whoever be in Government would have face those challenge . we do not remember the opposition argue against any of the intervention or support measure at the time — it be as if they have completely forget about that . not recognise the context and the global circumstance speak volume about their inability to run the economy . we operate not in a vacuum but in a global system . my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester go on to highlight the remarkable progress make over the last 13 year , particularly in area such as tax threshold . under Labour , the income tax threshold be £ 6 , 475 , whereas it be now £ 12 , 570 , and the nic threshold be £ 5 , 715 , whereas it be now £ 12 , 570 . that be incredible progress . together with the increase in the national living wage , that mean people on the national living wage work full time be 30 % well off in real term than they would have be under Labour . that be a remarkable achievement and show , despite the myth the Opposition peddle , that we look after the low pay in society . that will always be a priority of this Government . my hon . Friend show , yet again , his incredible insight , knowledge and commitment to his constituency by set out a range of area in which his constituent have benefit over the last 13 year , include by highlight the importance of skill and apprenticeship . I could not agree with he more . the Minister be talk about apprenticeship , opportunity and skill , and in Gillingham and Rainham , we have see over 8 , 000 apprenticeship . do he agree that the concept of the Bill and the autumn statement be that if people work hard and do the right thing , they keep more of the money they earn ? if they work hard and then retire , they get dignity through the pension triple lock — I know my resident from Darland , who be in the Gallery , very much appreciate that . if it be leave to the Labour party , there would be more borrowing , spending and debt . we see what happen before and we do not want to go back to that . I could not agree with my hon . friend more . he have give I the opportunity to leap swathe of my speech , because he have put those important point incredibly well . my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , who be my constituency neighbour and the Chair of the Treasury Committee , highlight the importance of the autumn statement as a turning point , as articulate by the Chancellor , and the all - important supply - side measure in it that will help spur on business , create employment and generate incremental economic activity . as a result of the spring Budget and the autumn statement , the OBR have say that the economy be likely to be 0 . 5 % large . when we be talk about an economy of over £ 2 trillion , that be a huge incremental value to the UK economy . unfortunately , the spokesperson for the SNP , the hon . member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) , fail to recognise that we have address the cost of live to the tune of £ 100 billion in support . he also forget that in the autumn statement we have an increase not only in the living wage but in benefit , align with inflation ; in pension ; and in the local housing allowance rate , to the 30th percentile . that mean 1 . 6 million family will be well off , gain an average of £ 800 in support . it be not true to say that there be no cost of live support measure in the autumn statement . my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) recognise the considerable impact of those measure and the fact that they make a meaningful difference to his constituent . he raise issue about visa and student , which I be happy to discuss with he far . as always , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) articulate core conservative value incredibly well . the autumn statement recognise the importance of spend every penny of taxpayer ' money incredibly carefully and responsibly , as well as ensure that we be there to support people through the tax system wherever we can . she be right to be passionate about small business and entrepreneur . Small Business Saturday take place this weekend and I be sure many of we will be out support small business , not only on Saturday but in the run - up to Christmas and beyond . the opposition spokespeople peddle so many myth and untruth , I do not know where to start . [ interruption . ] we address many of they in previous debate , so I will not hear from they . the way they react speak volume . order . the Minister do not mean to say " untruth " , do he ? I take back that comment , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be some presume fact that require challenge , as we see early in the week . at one point , the shadow Chancellor claim that the forecast be go to be £ 40 billion small . the shadow spoke - people know full well , because it be state by the OBR , that economic growth by the end of the forecast period be high than it be in the spring forecast . [ interruption . ] I be sorry if I have to explain that to Opposition Members — if a number be big than the previous one , then that mean growth and not decline . we could possibly forgive that mistake if it be not make by the people try to become the Chancellor of the Exchequer . it be extraordinary incompetence — a £ 55 billion difference be not something we can easily ignore . as my hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury point out early , we be pleased that the opposition be support the national insurance cut , but to combine that with their commitment on spending , to the tune of £ 28 billion , and then claim that there will not be an increase in debt be farcical . it be not true ; we know that will happen , and we be see the same old labour . as Margaret Thatcher say : " the problem with socialism be that you eventually run out of other people ' s money . " that be true then , and it be true now . I thank hon . member for their contribution . the Bill deliver a tax cut for 29 million work people , and I be pleased that it will be get support from across the House . I join the two Front Benchers in say how deeply sad it be to hear the news that Alistair Darling have die . he be an incredibly well - respect , thoughtful and kind man who be devoted to public service . I know all member will want we to send their condolence to his family . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . further proceeding on the Bill stand postpone ( Order , this day ) . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) bill : Money King ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide that be attributable to : ( a ) reduce the main primary percentage for Class 1 primary national insurance contribution to 10 % ( and reduce the percentage specify in regulation 131 of the Social Security Contributions Regulations 2001 to 3 . 85 % ) , ( b ) reduce the main Class 4 percentage for Class 4 national insurance contribution to 8 % from tax year 2024 - 25 , and ( c ) remove the requirement to pay Class 2 national insurance contribution from that tax year . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Bill Proceedings resume ( Order , this day ) . consider in Committee [ Dame Rosie Winterton in the Chair ] I remind member that , in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable . clause 1 - Reduction of Class 1 main primary percentage question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the follow : clause 2 to 5 stand part . the schedule . thank you , Dame Rosie , for that timely reminder . I shall briefly outline the clause in the Bill . clause 1 amend the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , which apply to Great Britain , and the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 to reduce the main primary percentage of class 1 national insurance contribution pay by employee from 12 % to 10 % . that be a tax cut worth an average of around £ 450 per annum for employee . clause 2 amend the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , which apply to Great Britain , and the Social Security Contributions and benefit ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1992 to reduce the main class 4 nic percentage pay by the self - employ from 9 % to 8 % . that be a tax cut worth an average of around £ 350 per annum for the self - employ . clause 3 amend the 1992 act that apply to Great Britain and to Northern Ireland to remove the obligation on person to pay class 2 obligation when their earning exceed the low profit threshold of £ 12 , 570 per annum . the small profit threshold be retain , with the result that self - employ person with profit from a trade , profession or vocation above that level will be treat as have pay class 2 nic and will continue to gain entitlement to contributory benefit . clause 4 introduce the schedule , contain transitional and consequential provision . the schedule to the Bill include change that be consequential on clause 1 to 3 of the Bill . the principal change be the introduction of a blend rate of primary class 1 national insurance contribution for director for the 2022 - 23 tax year and consequential repeal arise from clause 3 that remove the requirement to pay class 2 nic . finally , clause 5 give the short title as the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Act 2023 . I call the shadow Minister . as we make it clear on Second Reading , we will be support the measure that it include , I thank the Minister for set out the detail of its clause . as we hear , clause 2 to 5 and the schedule to the Bill implement a reduction in the class 4 rate , a removal of the requirement to pay class 2 contribution and various transitional and consequential provision . I wish to ask the Minister some question about how the measure in clause 1 will operate and what their overall impact will be . may I put it on record that , as ever , I be grateful to the Chartered Institute of Taxation for share its view with we on the clause in this Bill ? clause 1 make it clear that the Bill ' s measure will apply from 6 January 2024 . of course , we want people to benefit from these change as quickly as possible give the pressure that family across Britain be face right now . we recognise though that with the Government have leave this policy change until late November to announce , there be not much time leave for payroll software to get ready for 6 January . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm whether HMRC accept that some employer ' payroll software will not be ready in time for 6 January . if so , how many employer do he anticipate be affect ? in such case , employer would have to pass on the benefit of any change to employee in subsequent month . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm how many employee he expect will be affect by this delay , and how long he expect they to have to wait to receive the delayed benefit . furthermore , we understand that many operator in the retail sector have a moratorium on release new software update in the November to January period , give what a busy time that be for they . I would be grateful if the Minister could confirm whether he be aware of that . if so , what meeting have he already have with retailer to discuss this point and , if so , what have the outcome of those meeting be ? I call the SNP spokesperson . before I come to my point , may I add my own condolence and those of my party to the family and friend of the former Chancellor , Alistair Darling ? clearly , we be on very different side of the fence , particularly on independence , which be heavily contest nine year ago , but he be a tower intellect and a very important figure in scottish public life . as I say , we pass on our condolence to his family and friend . my question be also on the operation of clause 1 . HMRC have state to the Treasury Committee that it be unable to cope with inquiry either in writing or by phone at the moment , and that it be under severe pressure . I , too , would like to know how the clause will be give effect by 6 January , and what measure the Government be take to ensure that that happen . I thank hon . member for their question . I can assure they that HMRC be engage with industry and provide relevant guidance to support it to deliver the change on time . we expect the majority of company to be able to do so , particularly in this era , when many of the change can be make on various system . the Government be confident that the majority of software developer will be able to make change to their payroll software in time for the 6 January deadline . question put and agree to . clause 1 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 2 to 5 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 1 - Review of effect of Act " ( 1 ) the Treasury must lay before the House of Commons on the day on which this Act be pass a report which set out forecast of — ( a ) the change to the amount of national insurance contribution deduct from the annual income of a full - time worker earn the national living wage as a result of the measure in this Act over the period 2023 / 24 to 2027 / 28 , and ( b ) a comparison with the change to the amount of national insurance contribution deduct from the annual income of a full - time worker earn the national living wage as a result of the threshold for payment of national insurance remain freeze over the period 2023 / 24 to 2027 / 28 , rather than rise in line with CPI . ( 2 ) the report in subsection ( 1 ) should also set out the cost to ( i ) business , and ( ii ) government , of implement the change in this Act , and compare they to the cost of — ( a ) implement a 1 . 25 % point increase in national insurance contribution in April 2022 , and ( b ) implement the reversal of the increase in paragraph ( a ) in November 2022 . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require a review of the effect of the Bill if enact over the period 2023 / 24 to 2027 / 28 , on someone earn the national living wage , compare with the effect of national insurance threshold be freeze , and a comparison of the expect implementation cost of this Bill with those of implement and repeal the Health and Social Care Levy Act 2021 . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . thank you , Dame Rosie , for the chance to address our new clause 1 . before I do so , may I ask whether the Minister would commit to write to I with detailed response to the question that I raise in our debate on the previous group ? we do not get they in his response just now , so perhaps he will commit to write to I with they as soon as possible . our new clause would require the Government to be honest about the impact of the change make by the Bill when consider not just in isolation but in the wide context . subsection ( 1 ) would require the Treasury to explain how the taxpayer or someone earn the national living wage would be impact by the combined effect of the change in the Bill and the freezing of national insurance threshold at their 2022 - 23 level over the period 2023 - 24 to 2027 - 28 . we ask for confirmation of that , because our analysis show that a full - time worker on the national living wage will pay an estimate £ 70 more in national insurance next year , even with the cut in the Bill , as a result of the threshold be freeze . what be more , the full impact of the Government ' s freezing of national insurance threshold will be that by 2027 - 28 — again , even with the cut in the Bill — a full - time worker on the national living wage will pay £ 160 more a year in tax . can the Minister confirm whether he accept our calculation ? if he do not , I assume that he will accept our new clause and publish the datum ; otherwise , people will rightly be leave wonder what it be the Government have to hide . should the Government choose to accept our new clause , subsection ( 2 ) would require they to come clean on some of the implementation cost to business and the Government of what the Chartered Institute of Taxation describe last week as the " national insurance roller - coaster " in recent year . if the Government be not prepared to accept our new clause , perhaps the Minister will again commit to write to I with detail of the implementation cost of the change make by the Bill , of the 1 . 25 percentage point increase in national insurance contribution in April 2022 , and of the reversal of that increase in November 2022 . if he will not , I would be grateful if he could explain why not , again to prevent people from wonder what it be the Government have to hide . I hope that I can give the hon . member some assurance . a worker on the national living wage will save £ 165 next year from the national insurance cut , and thank to above - inflation increase in the NIC start threshold since 2010 , a full - time worker on the national living wage will pay £ 400 less in national insurance contribution next year than they otherwise would have . that include the historical increase to the national insurance contribution start threshold in July 2022 by this government — the large ever increase to a personal tax start threshold . the national minimum and living wage rate be set on advice from the independent Low Pay Commission . Rates for 2025 - 26 and beyond will be set in future year . the cost to HMRC of implement and reverse the health and social care levy be £ 5 million . the cost to implement this rate reduction be not yet know as the project to deliver the change be in delivery , though HMRC do not expect it to be significant . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s previous question , I will be delighted to write to he . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion . clause , by leave , withdraw . schedule agree to . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this be a short and relatively straightforward Bill , but it be an important one , as it will make a meaningful difference to many household by put money in the pocket of million of people in every constituency in this country . I thank the Treasury official , Clerks and everyone involve in get the Bill to this point so speedily . I sense the enthusiasm in the House to pass it , and for we to get back to our constituency and spread the good news . I will therefore end my comment there and commend the Bill to the House . as the opposition have make clear throughout today ' s proceeding and on many other occasion , we believe that taxis on work people be too high . we have long say that we want taxis on work people to come down when they can be cut in an economically and fiscally responsible way . while we confirm our support for the Bill , we repeat our call for the Government to be honest with the british people . the Conservatives should be honest about the inescapable truth face family across the UK : the tax burden in Britain be still on course to reach its high level since the second world war . as a result of the Conservatives ' decision on personal taxation in this Parliament , household will be leave face an average tax rise of £ 1 , 200 . look across all taxis , we now know that , by the end of the decade , they will have rise by the equivalent of an astonishing £ 4 , 300 for every household in the country . as we have set out today , a clear pattern run through the Conservatives ' time in office : whatever they do , they keep make work people bad off . while we support the Bill , it be clear that the Conservatives be incapable of deliver what Britain truly need : a plan to get the economy grow and make work people well off . that be what Labour be offer . in last week ' s debate on the autumn statement , when discuss the general election , the Economic Secretary to the Treasury say that we should " bring it on " . on that point , we whole - heartedly agree . as we have point out , the Bill do not go nearly far enough to help people face a bitter cost of living crisis . we urge the Government , after introduce this tiny measure , to go back and consider those people who be suffer from high food cost , see their mortgage and rent increase , and — most tellingly , as temperature plummet — face a winter with high energy bill than last year . this be a hard time for family across the nation of the UK , and in Scotland they deserve well . they should get that through the power of independence be return to Scotland . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . HM Prison Bedford Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) I be pleased to have secure this Adjournment debate on condition at his Majesty ' s Prison Bedford . I thank the Commons Library , the Howard League , the Prison Officers Association , the resident live by the prison , the Prison Reform Trust , the independent monitoring board , Victim Support and Charlie Taylor for their helpful information and datum , which will inform the debate . HMP Bedford , which be also a young offender institution , be inspect on 9 November , and the finding by his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison be shocking — shocking , but not surprising . in 2018 , I be grant an urgent question when Bedford Prison be last issue with an urgent notification . the same problem — inexperienced staff , extreme violence , overcrowding , drug use , mouldy and filthy condition , self - harm , and rat and cockroach infestation — be cite in the last report and the recent report . it be as heartbreaking as it be deeply frustrating to see the degrading and totally unacceptable condition in which prison officer , staff and resident be expect to live and work . HMP Bedford continue to have the high level of violent assault against staff in adult male prison in England and Wales . self - harm and drug use be excessive . I be sorry to say that the amount of force use by staff be also find to be high . inspector see example of inappropriate and excessive force alongside unprofessional behaviour . many prisoner be lock in their cell for up to 23 hour a day , and even the minority who be in education or training find that it be often cancel because there be no staff to cover those service . I have be tell that prisoner sleep with cover over their mouth to stop cockroach crawl in while they sleep . the inhumane segregation unit , once describe as a rat - infest dungeon , be suppose to be shut down year ago , but endless delay to the new unit mean that it be still in use . will the Minister explain what he believe prison be for ? lock people away in those condition do not keep society safe . where be the rehabilitation in the system ? who can leave those condition a well person , or less likely to reoffend ? overcrowded , squalid and unsafe prison will never help or allow people to turn their life around and move on from a life of crime and hurt other . accord to the report , staff and leader be do their good , and the POA have tell I that staff at Bedford feel safe now than they do when the last urgent notification be issue . however , while many problem , such as problem with staff retention , inadequate prison capacity , too few and inexperienced staff and too much staff churn at leadership level , be symptomatic of a wide crisis , question must be ask about why HMP Bedford have not learn the lesson of the past or be able to implement sustainable change . as his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison say in his report , many of the issue find at Bedford " reflect wide problem across the estate . " HMP Bedford be the fifth prison in a year to receive an urgent notification and the third reception prison . that be a damn indictment of not just the prison system , but the whole british justice system . prisoner on remand be wait far too long for trial because of the court backlog , which mean that victim be wait too long and be not get justice . in an ideal world , Bedford Prison would have be shut down year ago . it be a victorian jail in the middle of an urban area and totally unfit for purpose . resident live by the prison have have to tolerate unacceptable disturbance for year , with intruder break and enter garden to traffic drug over the wall and regular drone flight deliver contraband . the noise and disturbance from prisoner in solitary confinement cell mean that nearby residential window be keep close and some constituent have report hear sexual assault and violence leave unchecked . however , because the prison estate be full to the brim , it look as though a more modern appropriate prison to detain offender be not an option , even though it should be . despite all that , the Government have not improve the condition , because they can not or will not tackle the root cause of the persistent issue at HMP Bedford . currently , 377 male prisoner be on roll , although the " in use certify normal accommodation " number be 229 . More than 45 % , or 170 man , be await trial . some report say that that figure be high , so I would be grateful if the Minister clarify the number of man currently wait to be put before a judge or magistrate and how long the average wait be for a trial date . it be totally unacceptable that prisoner languish on remand for month and even year in an overcrowded prison , all because this Government have decimate the criminal justice system . the Crown court backlog have hit a new record high of more than 65 , 000 case and the magistrates court backlog be also rise . do the Minister agree that his Government ' s target of reduce the backlog to 53 , 000 by March 2025 be very unlikely to be meet ? serious question be be ask about whether Bedford can remain as a remand prison . will the Minister consider a complete re - role of the prison ? our prison be so overcrowded that judge be be ask to delay sentence convict criminal . in HMP Bedford , 46 man have be convict but be await sentencing . how be that deliver justice for victim or perpetrator ? we will no doubt hear about more plan , promise and initiative to turn the place around , but I have hear they all before . we have have the 10 prison project and the prison performance support programme , just two year ago , where Bedford Prison be supposedly go to " benefit from a new intensive support programme to help challenge jail to improve safety and rehabilitation . " all have fail . will the Minister explain why , after year and year of action plan and intervention , the problem at the prison persist ? what will his government do differently this time to resolve the distinctive and systemic failure at HMP Bedford and across the wide prison estate ? what will he do to support the governor to manage an overcrowded prison , to implement basic level of cleanliness and to tackle a toxic culture , where prisoner be lock up for too long in squalor and do not seem to bother try to keep their surrounding clean ? in 2017 , when HMP Liverpool be describe as have the " bad living condition " ever see by inspector , the prison be successfully turn around through a significant population reduction . huge investment and resource be channel towards the prison . Bedford need that level of sustainable investment now . in the context of the current capacity crisis , however , will the Minister confirm whether such a decanting measure be even possible ? there be absolutely no excuse for any prison not to meet basic standard of decency . the quality of leadership be vital . Governor Ali Barker have not yet be there a year , and I hope she get all the resource she require to achieve the high standard need at HMP Bedford . meanwhile , nearly half of the prison officer work at the prison have less than two year ' experience . be a prison officer be one of the most challenging of the uniformed profession . what plan do the Government have to support prison officer and tackle the huge lack of experience in the profession ? leadership and experience be key to improve the outcome at HMP Bedford , but leadership in Government also matter . since the last urgent notification five year ago , there have be 10 change in Prisons Minister . amid such chaos and churn , there can not be a serious plan for reform the penal system and deliver justice for victim . the decision to privatise the estate maintenance contract have have a particularly detrimental impact on old establishment such as Bedford , where the maintenance need be substantial . those contract be poorly fund and understaffed , and basic routine repair and maintenance work have suffer . what plan have the Minister to improve that and , at the very least , demand a well service from those contract ? full use of the recently announce measure , include the emergency release scheme and provision to delay the sentencing of individual on bail , should be make in the Government ' s response to the urgent notification . a presumption to suspend short sentence would also relieve pressure on reception prison once the relevant legislation have be pass and enact . those measure be not about be tough on crime , but about implement a justice system that work for victim — because today , the justice system be fail victim . as Bedford Prison serve a number of court , include in Bedford , Luton and London , there be a lot of intake churn . because Beford host a prison , my constituent be too often the victim of reoffende criminal in the area , and many be understandably lose faith in the justice system ' s ability to deliver justice to victim of crime , include violent crime . the thorny question of what sentencing be for be tackle by the Criminal Justice Act 2003 , which codify for the first time the principle and purpose of sentencing : the punishment of offender ; the reduction of crime , include reduction by deterrence ; the reform and rehabilitation of offender ; and the protection of the public . apart from punish prisoner — remember that many Bedford inmate have not yet be convict of a crime — no other remedy in that list be be meet . a report by Victim Support cite a study conduct for the probation service that reveal that 94 % of victim of crime say that the most important thing to they be that the offender do not commit the crime again . the same study find that 81 % would prefer an offender to receive an effective sentence rather than a harsh one . the first recommendation of the report be : " effective rehabilitation have to be at the heart of the prison system . " the second recommendation say : " though victim accept that any reform have to be cost - effective , if individual sentencing decision be see to be motivate by concern for cost more than justice , they will not inspire the support of victim or the general public . " Victim support back the reduction in short - term prison sentence , but want evidence - base alternative to stop reoffende put in place before they be abolish . it want robustly enforce community sentencing to be apply as a meaningful and effective alternative to custodial sentence . it say that if alternative such as drug or alcohol treatment programme , or treatment for mental health problem , be order , they need to be adequately fund and prove to prevent reoffende . the condition at HMP Bedford , and indeed across the prison estate , be not conducive to the rehabilitation of prisoner — far from it . in fact , the recent urgent notification find that the preparation for release be " not sufficiently good " . what will the Minister propose in his response to his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison that will finally turn Bedford Prison around , so that I be not stand here again next year ask the same question ? will he find a solution that finally put victim at the heart of the criminal justice system , a big part of which be to ensure that prison rehabilitate offender , rather than create reoffender and more victim of crime ? if I may briefly crave your indulgence , Mr Deputy Speaker , I wish to put on the record my tribute to the former Chancellor of the Exchequer , Alistair Darling , on the news of his sad passing . he be a man of intellect , integrity and ability , and have a deep commitment to public service . he will be miss by all in this House . we send our condolence and sympathy to his family . I be grateful to the hon . member for Bedford ( Mohammad Yasin ) for secure this important debate . as he know , I be deeply concerned by the recent finding of HM inspectorate of prison at HMP Bedford , particularly in regard to safety and living condition , and I have be clear that the situation need to improve quickly . this be , as he set out clearly , the second time that an urgent notification have be invoke at HMP Bedford . I agree that the circumstance lead to it be not acceptable . before I turn to the specific that he raise about the situation at Bedford , I hope that he will allow I a moment to remind the House of the context — his speech rightly range more widely than Bedford alone — and of the step that we be take to improve prison and justice across the country , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor set out in his statement of 16 October . on prison capacity , the House will be aware that we be build six new prison as we create an additional 20 , 000 place to deliver the big prison expansion in over a century . we have already deliver just shy of 6 , 000 of these additional place , and the brand - new category c resettlement prison , HMP Fosse Way , open its door in May this year and will house up to 1 , 715 prisoner . at the same time , we be create thousand of place through the expansion of prison with additional house block and major refurbishment at exist prison , and by roll out rapid deployment cell across the estate — the first 380 or so have already be deliver at six site . the hon . Gentleman raise a specific point about Bedford . there be no plan to re - roll Bedford Prison at this point . I appreciate that he may be disappoint by that , but it be important that I be open with he , as I will seek to be throughout my speech . I would gently say , in respect of prison capacity , that we be get on with deliver that increase in modern , effective rehabilitative prison place through those six new prison . by regrettable contrast , the plan under Jack Straw in the last Labour Government be to build 7 , 500 place in three titan prison , and , to the good of my recollection , they never get build at all . in respect of staffing , I join the hon . Gentleman in rightly pay tribute to all those who work in our prison — prison officer and all the staff in a range of capacity — for their work . since March 2017 , we have also increase the number of prison officer in public sector prison by 4 , 655 , and we make a commitment in 2021 to hire up to 5 , 000 prison officer across public and private prison by the mid - 2020s . as he allude to , the increase in number mean that , as we grow the workforce , which be a positive thing , we be also bring new joiner and staff to the prison service , who will , by logic , have few year of service under their belt . it be important that we continue do what we be do to retain experienced officer alongside they as part of their mentoring and the development of their skill . we have improve start salary for officer , which have rise from £ 22 , 000 to £ 31 , 000 since 2019 . the staffing picture be improve in prison across the country : in the 12 month from last September — the late figure I have — the number of officer have increase by 1 , 441 full - time equivalent . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight that we be also improve the retention of staff : the resignation rate among frontline prison officer be down by almost three percentage point compare with last year . there be more to do , but that be progress , and it be important that we continue on that trajectory . the hon . Gentleman also rightly highlight prison safety , which I will address in a broad context before I turn to his local prison . we continue to take the necessary action to make our prison safe both for frontline staff and for prisoner . the overall rate of assault be 26 % low than prior to the pandemic . of course , every assault be one too many , and we continue to work to improve the security of our prison and reduce violence and the number of assault within they , but I highlight that degree of positive progress to he . the measure that we be put in place to reduce violence in our prison estate include our £ 100 million security investment to clamp down on the weapon , drug and mobile phone that fuel violence and crime behind bar , and the continue rollout of PAVA — a synthetic pepper spray — in the adult male estate to protect staff and prisoner from incident of serious violence , alongside de - escalation training for officer , which be also play an important part . before I turn specifically to Bedford , let I address some of the broad - brush point that the hon . Gentleman make . he be right to highlight the five key purpose of sentencing . I highlight to he — although I be do so from memory , so I will write to he to correct myself if I be incorrect — that reoffende be down by 9 % , so again , that be work , but there be always more to do . he be right about the importance of substance misuse treatment programme in get people off substance that may drive their criminal behaviour . their importance extend beyond prison , to when people be on release . my recollection be that there be a 54 % reduction in reoffende if those programme be continue in the community , the treatment be sustain , and the NHS , local authority and prison authority work together to make sure that it be in place . we be see positive outcome there . the hon . Gentleman quite rightly talk about the approach to sentencing at headline level , and the challenge of short sentence . they be often so short that we can not get to grip with the underlying challenge that an individual face , but long enough to break fragile tie and affect relationship , job and accommodation . I be very pleased that , on this issue , he appear to be follow the approach set out by the Lord Chancellor , who suggest tough sentence for those who commit the most heinous crime , and tough community sentence as an alternative to short custodial sentence , though obviously discretion will rest with the sentencer . also , while there should be a clear focus in the custodial estate on people pay their debt to society , they should also be able to make positive life choice about what they intend to do when they come out of prison , so that they can make a positive contribution and live life on the straight and narrow . I turn to the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise about his local prison , HMP Bedford . as he set out , his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison have highlight significant concern about the condition of cell and overcrowding at Bedford . I reassure he that I be treat that with the utmost seriousness . he ask a number of question about measure that we will put in place in response to the urgent notification . in accordance with our usual protocol on respond to the inspectorate , the Lord Chancellor will publish his response to the urgent notification , and the action plan , no later than 15 December ; there be 28 day in which to do that . that will be the detailed response . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the time he spare I early this week for a conversation , in which he set out and amplify his key concern . I hope that I can engage with he as we finalise the action plan . I also highlight my gratitude to the governor for give I her time when we speak last week . the finding be , as the hon . Gentleman say , deeply concern . notwithstanding the fact that there will be a formal response within 28 day , I can update he — and indeed you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and the House — on a number of immediate action that we have take to drive improvement . these include provide additional resource support to the prison , equivalent to 15 additional prison officer , to improve the prison ' s safety and security , and to improve the regime ; I think the hon . Gentleman ask for additional support for the governor . we be undertake a cell cleaning and paint programme to improve the physical environment , and complete a joint audit with our maintenance contractor to identify work and key priority area , so that we can ensure that the work be do . we be introduce a cell condition agreement to ensure that all cell be in good condition before they can be occupy . Decency check to address concern about cleanliness will be oversee by the governor ; that will help directly with improve living condition . a work group have be set up , lead by the governor , to understand issue regard fair treatment . the hon . Gentleman raise that point when we speak . the group will particularly focus on allegation of racism and other inappropriate behaviour . he have highlight his concern on that issue to I . we have make a number of new senior appointment at the prison ; they include a new head of violence reduction , a new head of reduce reoffende , and a new head of education , skill and work . his Majesty ' s chief inspector note in his letter to the Lord Chancellor that Bedford have " consistently fail to provide good outcome for prisoner " since the inspection in 2016 . the series of concern inspection at Bedford be , of course , deeply troubling , and it may be useful if I briefly set out the improvement that we have make in response to previous inspection report . of course , they clearly have not resolve all the underlie issue , hence the hon . Gentleman ' s secure this debate , but it be important that we highlight what have be do . in response to his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison ' first urgent notification about HMP Bedford in 2018 , a comprehensive safety strategy be implement to support violence reduction , and a dedicated young adult unit be introduce to provide targeted support for prisoner and upskille for staff . that result in low level of violence for that demographic group . we also provide additional staffing , include a safety hub manager , and a dedicated use of force co - ordinator in the safety team . in addition , we upgrade the head of safety post from a band 7 to a more senior band 8 . refurbishment also take place to improve decency and living condition ; they include improvement to shower and floor . HMP Bedford have also receive support from the prison performance support programme , which offer tailor support for a maximum period of 18 month to prison that face numerous complex challenge . the support for Bedford include over £ 1 million of additional funding focus on improve security and living condition . follow the taking of those step , the inspectorate undertake an independent review of progress in 2019 and find that although there have be some progress since 2018 , progress on many of the inspectorate ' s recommendation be insufficient . inspector find that despite the pandemic , improvement in living condition have be make , include extensive , good - quality refurbishment of the communal shower room . however , previous concern about violence and safety persist . in early 2022 , the inspectorate visit Bedford to undertake a full inspection . it note improvement at the prison , include strong leadership and an improved prison culture . further improvement have also be make , such as investment in new window and floor and the installation of enhance gate security . alongside this , the capacity of the prison have be reduce by 76 space to allow residential accommodation to be refurbish . the inspection recognise that challenge remain , but it acknowledge that the prison be head in a positive direction , and the oversight that follow the urgent notification of 2018 be remove from Bedford in October last year . even after the removal of urgent notification oversight , Bedford continue to receive support , for example through an ongoing compliance project , in which management checking system be build to ensure that rule and regulation be fully follow by both staff and prisoner . it be therefore deeply disappointing that the late inspection conclude that standard have slip back at the prison , as the hon . Gentleman say , and a second UN be issue . it be also worry that the content of that urgent notification , which I consider very carefully , be , to my mind , similar to those of the 2018 notification . as I say , I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for discuss these matter with I early this week , and I hope that he will feel free to come to I with any specific that he would like consider in the next few week , as we put together our response — and , indeed , if he would like more regular engagement as we work through what need to be do to improve the prison in his constituency . when we meet , the hon . Gentleman raise a couple of point that I would like to address . he raise his concern about the impact on constituent who live near the prison ; he mention people enter the garden of property that neighbour the prison in an attempt to throw thing over the prison wall , and broad impact . speak as a constituency MP , I entirely understand his concern when constituent bring he those issue . it be right that he make those point to I as the Minister , and to the House more broadly . the prison have work to enhance partnership with both the local council and the police , so that it can tackle such behaviour ; as part of that , the prison check directly , on a weekly basis , on any complaint from resident , and follow up on they , if they have not be raise with Bedfordshire police . if it be helpful to he , he may wish to raise specific issue with I outwith this Chamber , in confidence . the hon . Gentleman touch on his concern about the inexperience of some staff at Bedford . notwithstanding the benefit of increase the number of staff in prison officer role , we recognise the need to continue train rigorously . there be now a learning and capability manager in place to directly support all new staff at HMP Bedford . we have also provide for a full - time welfare post for HMP Bedford staff , so that they have that support , independent of local care team arrangement , should they need it . have previously deploy standard coach team at the prison , I intend to redeploy they in the new year , to again help drive progress . the HMIP finding be of course deeply concern , and we be committed to improve the condition at Bedford and at the other prison where un have be trigger over the past year . my right hon . and learn Friend the Lord Chancellor will be monitor the situation at Bedford very closely in the come week and month to ensure there be sustained improvement . although I have have this specific brief for only about two and a half to three week , the hon . member for Bedford will have have experience of deal with I in other ministerial role , and I hope he will recognise that just as I do in those role , I will seek to work collaboratively with he where I can . we share the desire outcome of make improvement . I also confirm on the record that the Lord Chancellor ' s response to the urgent notification will be publish by 15 December , as require . the hon . Gentleman will be able to obtain it , but I will make sure that a copy be send to he for his record . a wider - range full action plan will also be develop in the long term to address all HMIP recommendation and hopefully tackle some of the long - term underlie challenge that he have highlight . I anticipate that that will be publish in March 2024 , but I will inform he when we have a more precise timing for that . I be grateful to he for bring this important issue to this Chamber for debate , and look forward to work with he and the prison in the come month to address the issue that have be highlight . follow the Minister ' s opening remark , I place on record my own sadness on learn of the death of Alistair Darling . he be a distinguished member of this House , and one who I regard from the Opposition Benches as a friend . the political landscape of the United Kingdom will be the bleaker because of his loss . question put and agree to . House adjourn .