Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — sme : access to Finance what step she be take with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to help increase access to finance for small and medium - sized enterprise . please may I take this opportunity , Mr Speaker , to pay tribute to Tony Lloyd ? I work with he very closely on the all - party group on poverty and fair business banking . he be a thoroughly decent man . on behalf of myself and the Department , I pass on our deep condolence to his friend and family . the Government work with the British Business Bank to improve access to finance for small business through target programme , such as the £ 12 . 4 billion of finance that be back more than 90 , 000 business across the UK and the £ 1 billion in start - up loan for 105 , 000 small business since 2012 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that reply . many sme and new business be find it increasingly difficult to open a bank account and to then obtain the support and service that use to be available in the rapidly diminish branch network . what step be he take to address those challenge that sme be face ? my hon . friend raise an important point . lead bank and alternative lender be commit to the SME finance charter to help small business and start - up . we continue to work with the UK finance and banking industry to make sure that sme have the support from banking service that they require . many lead challenger bank , such as Metro , Aldermore and Starling , provide additional application support . banking hub be also available for those without a bank on their high street to offer face - to - face support . thirty have already open , and 70 more be in the pipeline . I thank the Minister for his response . there be a willingness to meet net zero commitment from business all over the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , so would the Minister be prepared to introduce a scheme whereby small business can access funding to implement infrastructure change in their business to help they achieve net zero , and will this be available to all part of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the hon . member raise a very important point . it be something that we look at all the time , and certainly we have have discussion on the matter . we already have programme in place , include the £ 12 . 4 billion that we distribute through the British Business Bank that support nation and region fund . some of that will certainly help business to access finance to decarbonise . we look at those measure all the time , and we be happy to work with he on future programme that we might roll out . I call the shadow Minister . small and medium - sized enterprise be a vital part of a thrive global economy , yet 49 % of british sme say that they lack the time or resource to sell internationally . they be be hinder by complex regulation , insufficient access to funding and inadequate Government guidance . that be why Labour have launch the small business export taskforce with the Federation of Small Businesses to listen to business need and address they head - on . what be the Minister do to support hard - work sme in navigate the Government ' s complex web of regulatory requirement and help unleash this untapped entrepreneurial potential ? we agree with the hon . gentleman on the ambition , but he be probably behind the game a little in term of what we be actually do , not least in the 73 free trade agreement that we have agree , include the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership that be come down the track . I hope that he will be supportive of that agreement . he have probably also never hear of the export support service , the international trade adviser and the export champion , all of which help our sme export to other part of the word . I call George Freeman . may I take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the Secretary of State — [ interruption . ] sorry , question 2 . Science and Technology sector : Inward Investment what step she be take with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology to help increase inward investment into the science and technology sector . my Secretary of State be so savvy that she bring in a science Minister and now , under her stewardship , science and technology be boom in the Department for Business and Trade . the UK have the no . 1 tech ecosystem in Europe , raise more venture capital than France and Germany combine . science and tech be not just for fan ; we have now mainstreame it with the Office for Investment , which be reach out to company around the world to highlight the advantage of invest in the UK , bring in over £ 5 billion of investment , as be announce at the global investment summit just last year . Mr Speaker , you can see that I be use my freedom on the Back Benches to improve my fitness and to make myself as fit as the Department . may I take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the Secretary of State and the team at the Department for Business and Trade on the work they be do , particularly with the global investment summit ? there be a wall of money out there globally to invest in UK science and tech — in life science , quantum , fusion and agritech — and we be begin , finally , to attract that money . what plan do the Department have to make it easy for global investor to deploy money at scale in UK cluster ? my hon . friend will know more than most , have have this brief previously . of course , we be out there source investment for the UK and , as I mention , we be already beat France and Germany . far afield , the UK be the third country , behind the US and China , to reach the landmark of $ 1 trillion in value . we have the concierge service with the Office for Investment . we have also recently secure £ 4 . 5 billion through the advanced manufacturing plan . that , couple with the research and development budget of around £ 39 . 8 billion between 2022 - 25 , show that we be ready to enable investment in the UK and to manufacture product in this area . will the Secretary of State and her team pay much more attention to the science and innovation possibility in the hydrogen sector — that is , hydrogen energy and power ? this be something we be good at , and the research be there . we need to be there quickly before the Chinese dominate the market . I gently say that the hon . Gentleman should pay attention to the hydrogen strategy , which show we be lean forward and ensure that we can capture the investment , de - risk any of the testing and ensure that intellectual property can be commercialise here in the UK . we of course see hydrogen in the mix in our future energy spectrum . sme : operate cost what assessment her Department have make of the implication for her policy of trend in the level of operating cost for small and medium - sized enterprise . the Government have take action to help sme deal with cost of living pressure , include freeze fuel duty , maintain the 5p cut for a further year , introduce the energy bill discount scheme and reverse the national insurance rise . in the autumn statement , the Chancellor announce a substantial business rate package to support the UK ' s small business worth £ 4 . 3 billion over the next five year . notwithstanding what the Minister say , I be still frequently be approach by small and medium - sized enterprise in Edinburgh West that be struggle to meet soar energy cost , stave off inflation and deal with Brexit red tape . the number of scottish sme in financial distress be up 10 % , accord to research , and those be formerly strong , stable and well - manage business . they have a huge impact on employment in tourism , which be one of our main industry . will the Minister tell I what more the Department will do to reassure business in my constituency and elsewhere , and whether he will ask the Chancellor to do more in the forthcoming Budget to help they ? the hon . Lady raise important point . of course , the Chancellor can do nothing if the Scottish Government do not pass on our support to Scotland , which they have not do for business rate . I know that that be out of her hand , but it be a point she may want to raise with the Scottish Government . the average pub in Scotland be £ 15 , 000 bad off a year than its english counterpart because they have not pass through that rate support . the average restaurant or guest house be £ 30 , 000 bad off than its english counterpart , and closure rate in Scotland be 30 % high than in England . I call the shadow Minister . business closure now exceed new business opening , with 345 , 000 business across the UK closing in 2022 — the high since record begin . this week , the Financial Times report that more than 47 , 000 business be on the verge of collapse . former Prime Minister Johnson use an expletive to describe his party ' s commitment to business . his successor well and truly deliver on that commitment by crash the economy . be it not time the Government put business out of their misery by call a general election , so that the country can get back to business ? on this side of the House , we be for business because we be from business , and we understand the need of business . so be we ! that be an interesting point that the hon . Gentleman make from a sedentary position . the actual number of closure — although of course we be concern about increase — be below pre - pandemic average , but nevertheless we have step in to help by freeze fuel duty , maintain the 5p cut and announce £ 4 . 3 billion of business rate support , all to help our sme . closure rate be low in England than in labour - run Wales . propose Trade Deal with India : Human Rights if she will take step to ensure that the propose trade deal with India include legal commitment on uphold human right . the UK be a lead advocate for human right around the world . when we have concern on human right , they be raise directly with partner government , include at ministerial level , and that include India . trade negotiation with India be continue , to build on our £ 38 billion trading relationship and get well access to 1 . 4 billion consumer . I thank the Minister for his answer , but an industry risk analysis dataset show that India rank among the bad perform country for human right abuse across a host of key industry . my question be a specific one and I would like an answer please : have the Government consult human right monitoring body and expert , and be the government actively consider the impact of this deal on human right abuse in India ? I congratulate the hon . and learn Lady on her recent election as Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . the UK engage regularly with the Indian Government and other government around the world , bilaterally and multilaterally . where we have concern on human right , we raise they directly with the partner Government , include at ministerial level . I must say , though , that I be not entirely sure that whatever we do on human right will make any difference to whether the SNP will support this trade deal . it be not only fan of free trade agreement who have notice ; we have all notice that the SNP have never support any trade deal negotiate by either the EU or the UK . it have abstain on Japan and Singapore and have be against Canada , Australia and South Korea — and even against Ukraine . [ interruption . ] do not tempt I — you be do well ! I call the SNP spokesperson . I would like to give the Minister another chance , because that be pretty dismal stuff even by his standard . India have one of the poor human right record in the world when it come to child labour . to give the Minister an opportunity to get we to a position where we could potentially support a deal , will he explain how Ministers and the Government be engage with negotiator in India to tackle child labour there and to ensure that the United Kingdom do not become complicit in that exploitation ? of course the UK have a very proud record on labour standard and on raise these issue with counterpart at all level . Lord Ahmad be in India just a couple of week ago raise specific human right issue , include a case that the SNP have raise frequently . the Government be proud of our record on labour protection and have be clear that an FTA with India do not come at the expense of labour standard . but may I refer the hon . Gentleman back to the rhetorical question : when will the SNP ever support a trade deal with anybody ? Minister , you know it be not your responsibility to ask the question . it be for other to ask you the question . come on — you know well than that as an ex - chair of the conservative party . Houthi Attacks : Supply chain what step her Department be take to help protect supply chain in the context of the Houthi attack in the Persian Gulf . what step her Department be take to help protect supply chain in the context of the disruption to trade in the Red sea . More than 15 % of global shipping traffic pass through the Red sea , make it one of the most important strategic waterway in the world . overall , a whopping 12 % of global trade volume use this trade route and my Department be monitor the impact of event in the Red sea closely . I be previously the shipping Minister and now I be the Minister for advanced manufacturing , so I know that this be important to industry . we be work to equip UK business with the tool they need to deal with global supply chain issue . just last week , I publish the world ' s first ever critical import and supply chain strategy in collaboration with industry . the strategy include make the UK Government the centre of excellence for supply chain analysis and risk assessment , support our status as the world ' s eighth large manufacturer . this will help UK business to build secure and reliable supply chain , which be vital to the UK ' s economy , national security and the delivery of our essential service . I be sure the hon . Gentleman do not need to ask a question now , with all you have read out . come on , Sir Michael ! I will think of one , Mr Speaker . as my hon . friend have say , we be the eighth large manufacturer in the world — and where be the centre of manufacturing ? it be , of course , the west midland . what advice be my hon . friend give to people such as Andy Street about what can be do to support business in the west midland to overcome what I hope be a temporary difficulty ? my hon . friend have hit so many marker in that question . he be absolutely right that the west midland , and Birmingham in particular , be the heart of advanced manufacturing . I suggest that the Mayor catch up on supply chain reporting . I be more than happy to sit down and talk to he about that . we have work with industry , include in the automotive sector , to ensure that supply chain can be as flexible and resilient as possible . of course there be concern about extend route from that part of the world into Europe , but , as I mention early , we be the first country in the world to produce a strategy , work with industry to ensure that the UK continue to provide the datum that it need — order . come on ! I call Nicola Richards . at a time when we be begin to see inflation fall , recent development in the Red sea be extremely concern , not just in term of security , but because of the huge cost to shipping . my constituent do not want an increase in price as a result of the terror attack . can the Minister build on the excellent answer she give to my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Michael Fabricant ) by reassure business in my constituency that we will do all we can to maintain the flow of good to and from the UK ? absolutely . the UK will always stand up for the freedom of navigation and the free flow of trade . we take threat to shipping vessel in the Red sea extremely seriously . my hon . friend be right to note that , fundamentally , there have be an increase in cost potential , include a 124 % increase in freight rate , which be why we have produce a strategy and why we have a council that will continue to work with industry to ensure that supply chain be resilient and the situation have the small possible impact on our economy . business in Rural Areas what step her Department be take to support business in rural area . the Government provide extensive business support for all business , include those in rural area . as a Member of Parliament for a rural constituency , I be keenly aware of the difficulty that apply specifically to rural business because of their location . with other Departments , we focus on access to energy , and we work with the Department for Education on apprenticeship . we also have the British Business Bank ' s recovery loan scheme , and the start up Loans company , which improve access to finance to help business to invest and grow . I believe that that package help rural business . the Secretary of State will be aware that the Sutherland spaceport could be a fantastic boost for local business . equally , float offshore wind in the North sea present opportunity for the Wick and Scrabster harbour . to underpin that , we need the transport infrastructure . the public service obligation for Wick airport run out in March this year , with no word from the Scottish Government on whether it will be continue — it would be a fatal blow if not — and then there be the abject failure to invest in the a9 . promise after promise after promise have be break . what advice do she have for I ? I would ask the hon . Gentleman to speak to the SNP - lead Scottish Government , who be responsible for much of that investment . it be a real shame that the SNP Government do not care about rural business or small business in Scotland . office for National Statistics figure show that Scotland lose more than 20 , 000 business last year , and they be mainly the small business employ up to 50 people . however , I take his point about infrastructure . we have to look at that on a UK - wide basis , and I be prepared to look in a little more detail at what my Department can do to support he . I think that my right hon . friend be do a great job for rural business . however , the Met Office , which be under her stewardship , be responsible for provide wind forecast , which be particularly important give that the Orwell bridge be close recently . I would like there to be more transparency and , specifically , for the Met Office to publish the wind speed on its app so that there be transparency for all business and the bridge be not close unnecessarily . that sound like a significant issue . however , I be pleased to say that the Met Office be the responsibility not of my Department but of the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . we can raise the matter with dsit colleague to ensure that they look at it as quicky possible . small business : North Wales whether she have have recent discussion with the Welsh Government on the adequacy of Government support for small business in north Wales . I regularly meet Ministers from the devolve Administrations through inter - ministerial fora to discuss a range of policy issue . sme across Wales have access to a range of UK Government service to help they to grow and thrive . the UK Government also recently announce that we will appoint new international trade adviser in Wales to provide tailor support for Welsh SME exporter to take advantage of new export opportunity . the Labour Welsh Government be reduce rate relief for the hospitality sector from 75 % to 40 % in April . follow that announcement , Monmouthshire County Council , which be also labour - run , call on its colleague to maintain support at the same rate as in England . business owner have criticise the Welsh Government , say that it would be deeply unfair , but the outgoing First Minister have reject their call , and a number of hospitality business have already close their door this year . will the Minister join I in urge the Welsh Government to maintain the 75 % support that business need , instead of cut their foot from under they just because Welsh Labour can not manage a budget ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the Welsh Labour Government need to start support business and to maintain the 75 % relief rate , as we be in England . the Welsh Government have also cut the budget of Business Wales from £ 26 . 6 million to £ 21 million . figure from ukhospitality show that the average pub in Wales will be £ 6 , 800 bad off as a result , compare with England ; for the average restaurant , that figure will be £ 12 , 000 ; and for the average hotel , it will be £ 20 , 000 . I do not know who will be in charge of Labour in Wales , but it be about time that it start to back Welsh business , as the UK Government do . Foreign Direct Investment : North Northamptonshire what recent step her Department have take to help increase foreign direct investment into north Northamptonshire . the Department for Business and Trade have do a lot to bring foreign direct investment into the UK . just last November , we raise £ 30 billion at our global investment summit . specifically for north Northamptonshire , my hon . friend will be pleased to know that his constituent can take advantage of the DBT national and regional investment team , which work with local partner to provide support for foreign investor who wish to invest and set up in the region . recent inward investment into the Kettering constituency include the Ball Corporation from the US build Europe ' s large and most modern aluminium drink can manufacture plant in Burton Latimer , create 200 new job . will my right hon . friend congratulate and thank Ball for its confidence and investment in north Northamptonshire ' s manufacture economy , and encourage other to see Kettering — with its superb connectivity and motivated workforce — as an ideal location for further investment ? I be extremely pleased to be able to do so . I congratulate and thank Ball Corporation for place its investment in Kettering . that be exactly the sort of investment that we want to see all around the UK : it be the levelling - up agenda writ large . I also thank all the official in my Department , but especially my Ministers , who travel all around the world — include to the US — to promote the UK . we never talk this country down ; we let people know that this be a great place to do business , and we be see the benefit of that strategy . Post Office Horizon System : exoneration of sub - postmaster when she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to exonerate the remain sub - postmaster with criminal conviction relate to the failure of the Post Office Horizon system . on 10 January , we announce the Government ' s intention to bring forward legislation within week to overturn the conviction of all those convict in England or Wales on the basis of Post Office evidence during the Horizon scandal . I meet the Justice Secretary only this week to make sure that those plan be on track , and we hope to bring forward that legislation as soon as possible . do the Minister have an estimate of how many conviction be make during the Horizon pilot ? will he confirm that those conviction will be include in the legislation , give that they be not make use Horizon datum ? we do not know that number yet , but we be very concerned about people who use the pilot version of Horizon and be potentially subject to similar abuse . we do believe they fall under similar compensation scheme , and there be no reason why they would not be cover by the legislation to overturn conviction . for the legislation to work , postmaster have to come forward . when I ask one of my constituent this weekend why they have not come to I soon , they say it be because they have sign a non - disclosure agreement , but also because they have have to sign the Official Secrets Act . I think that be so bonker that I do not believe it , until I read page 26 of Nick Wallis ' s book , which say that postmaster do have to sign the Official Secrets Act . if that mad policy be still go on , will the Minister bring it to an end ? will he tell postmaster all over the country that they be completely at liberty to talk to their mps about any aspect of the Post Office ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the work he have do in this area . I understand that the requirement to sign the Official Secrets Act relate to the confidentiality of mail ; it do not relate to the confidentiality of issue regard mistreatment by Post Office Ltd . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point , and I will certainly raise it with Post Office Ltd , but I can confirm that that would not prevent somebody from speak out , include to their Member of Parliament . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Minister know that we be willing to work with the Government on a way to exonerate the sub - postmaster and get they compensation as quickly as possible . the proposal will have to be imperfect , but they represent a clear option for resolve this terrible issue . as a way to ensure safeguard against any potential future misuse of precedent , could cross - party agreement be establish as an essential provision for the exercise of power of this kind ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the constructive way he have engage with we on this issue . I know that the Justice Secretary speak to the Leader of the Opposition this week on this very matter , and we be very keen to engage with the hon . Gentleman too . he be right to say the solution be imperfect . we believe it be the least bad option , but of course we will engage with he and make sure that he feel the legislation be in the right place . I be grateful to the Minister for that answer , and I hope that exchange give some reassurance to all colleague in the House . will he confirm that all prosecution that arise from the Horizon pilot scheme will now also be include in the exoneration , give that , although people be technically prosecute without official Horizon datum , it be very much the same issue ? again , the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point , similar to one make early . the circumstance be similar , so we feel there be no reason to exclude people who have be convict in similar circumstance . again , I be happy to work with he on that issue . Trade Barriers what recent assessment she have make of the principal barrier to trade for importer . the Government be commit to break down barrier to trade through our ambitious programme of free trade agreement . in August last year , the Government announce the border target operating model , which will simplify border process for both import and export . these change , base on smart use of datum and technology , will put in place new security and biosecurity control while ensure they be as simple as possible for business to comply with . the five - times - delay border check will come into effect very soon , but those deal with plant and animal health product be seriously worried about potential delay . indeed , the chair of the Horticultural Trades Association have point out that the process of import a petunia from the Netherlands have already increase from 19 to 59 step , and he warn that the " new border be a disaster wait to happen " . what be the Minister do to ensure that we will have a plentiful supply of import red rose for Valentine ' s day , especially for all those conservative on the other side who love each other so much ? I be feel the hon . Gentleman ' s love this morning , Mr Speaker . we have consult very widely on the border target operating model . we have put in a lot of time and effort , we have do a lot of consultation , we have be run webinar and put out leaflet to make sure that business be aware , and the introduction of the model will of course be stage . the hon . Gentleman need to be careful about what labour ' s plan will be . this week , the EU ambassador to London reveal the fact that Labour ' s desire for a food and veterinary agreement be likely to lead to close dynamic alignment between London and Brussels in the future , which be directly against his party leader ' s state policy of no dynamic alignment . Post Office Horizon System : compensation for sub - postmaster what step her Department be take to encourage sub - postmaster who be affect by the failure of the Post Office Horizon system to claim compensation . what step her Department be take to encourage sub - postmaster who be affect by the failure of the Post Office Horizon system to claim compensation . over £ 153 million have be pay to 2 , 700 victim . we encourage anyone impact to use the three compensation scheme available . we have already publish the detail of the up - front £ 75 , 000 fix - sum offer for group litigation order postmaster on the gov . uk website , create a new claim form , and write to all eligible member of the GLO scheme to explain the offer far . the Post Office Horizon scandal have shock the nation . my constituent Kym Ledgar receive a settlement under the historical shortfall scheme , which do not take into account the enormous stress , the extra work in try to balance the book , the damage to her reputation and the price she and her family pay in lose income , have have to make up the shortfall herself . do the Minister agree that we need to acknowledge the wide cost of the Post Office ' s appal behaviour ? will he meet I to discuss how those who accept an offer under the historical shortfall scheme may now receive compensation that truly reflect the impact that the Post Office ' s conduct over two decade have have on their life ? I apologise on behalf of the Government to Kym Ledgar for what she have be through . it be absolutely our intention that everybody get full and fair compensation , and that be not only for financial loss but for non - pecuniary loss . we have take a number of step to ensure that the compensation be fair and deliver swiftly , include by establish the independent advisory board , on which the noble Lord Arbuthnot sit . we will continue to work with the board and consider what further action be require , but yes , I would of course be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these matter far . the Post Office Horizon scandal have make clear to we all what happen when whistleblower be ignore or silence . do my hon . friend agree that as well as ensure that victim be properly compensate , we need well legislation to protect whistleblower ? as the Government ' s whistleblowe framework review draw to a close , will he meet I to discuss how the outcome of the review can be use to support the Whistleblowing Bill that I present to the House yesterday ? I thank my hon . friend for all her work . at one point we be co - chair of the all - party group for whistleblowing , and she do a tremendous job in raise this issue time and again in the House . we be currently review the effectiveness of the whistleblowing framework in meet its intended objective . every scandal that I have talk about in this House over the year , from the Back Benches and the front Benches , have come to light because of whistleblower , who be hugely important . we be review that frame - work . the research for the review be near completion , the Government will set out the next step in due course , and yes , of course I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that . I , too , have a constituent who , although she be thankfully not prosecute , be force over a period of more than a decade to pay back thousand of pound every year , and it amount to a six - figure sum . as the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) say , this be not just about that pecuniary loss ; this be about the impact on my constituent ' s family — I will not go into her personal detail , but they take a real hit and I wish she have come forward to I soon . I meet she a couple of week ago and it really have wreck her life . she have not yet have any compensation through the shortfall scheme , so I urge the Minister to ensure that such people be properly compensate . the hon . Lady be absolutely right to raise that point . yes , the compensation scheme be there to compensate and provide redress for financial loss , but also , quite rightly , for personal loss , loss of reputation , impact on health — those kind of matter . there be two route open to compensation : the £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award , which be pretty much an immediate payment , or someone can go for a full assessment of loss , which take into account all those matter . interim payment be also available . we have pay out £ 153 million in total across the scheme . I be happy to help the hon . Lady with that specific case , and we be look to try to expedite the payment of full and fair compensation to all individual . I be work on a daily basis to try to do that . sme : Late Payment what step her Department be take to help tackle late payment to small and medium - sized business . the Government be commit to tackle late payment . that be why we launch the prompt payment and cash flow review , which be publish alongside the autumn statement . the review include amend payment performance reporting requirement for large business , and provide the Small Business Commissioner with more power to investigate late payment . small business be the backbone of our economy , but unfortunately late payment continue to blight the ability of small business to trade , with an average of £ 684 million a year be lose . unfortunately , that be on the increase , with a 7 % increase in 2023 . I appreciate what the Minister say about another review — I think we have one a few year ago — but what specific action be the Government take to address this appalling abuse of power , which be contribute to 50 , 000 small business go under a year ? the hon . Lady be right to raise this issue , and early I set out specific action such as give the Small Business Commissioner more power , and produce league table . we work closely with the Good Business pay campaign , which produce league table on this issue , and name and shame the people responsible be important . the Government be lead the way , and from April 2024 firm bid for Government contract worth more than £ 5 million will have to demonstrate that they pay their invoice within an average of 55 day , tighten to 45 day in April 2025 and to 30 day in the come year . steel Industry whether she have have recent discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on take fiscal step to help support the steel industry . the Chancellor and I meet regularly , and obviously we know and recognise the importance of the steel sector in the UK economy . our commitment to the sector be clear , and we will be invest more than £ 500 million in the Port Talbot site to ensure that steelmaking continue in the UK . without that investment , the 8 , 000 job at the port and the 12 , 500 job in the supply chain would have be at risk . we be work with Tata , and we have set up a transition board — the hon . Gentleman know about that because we both serve on it — and we have provide more than £ 100 million of support for affected employee and the local economy . last Friday , Tata announce that it will provide an additional £ 130 million of support for employee face redundancy . the option be steel - make no long continue at Port Talbot , or the investment that we have provide . minister keep spin this line that Tata Steel be threaten to close down the Port Talbot work and walk away , but they know that be an empty bluff , because the cost of dismantle and remediate the Port Talbot steelwork be vast and utterly prohibitive . against that backdrop , let we be clear : be it the case that no string be attach to the £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money that have be give to Tata Steel ? be that £ 500 million give by the Prime Minister to Tata Steel with a green light to make 2 , 800 steelworker redundant ? I would not want steelworker to think that we be not work together , and the hon . Member and I work together and will be work together to ensure that steelworker be protect as much as possible . I think it be extraordinary that the position he be now put forward be that it would have be well to risk the absolute loss of steelmaking in the UK and then allow the taxpayer to pick up the cost to manage the site . it be a bluff . I believe it far more preferential that we make the large investment ever in steelmaking to protect more than 5 , 000 job at Port Talbot and the 12 , 500 job in the supply chain — [ interruption . ] fundamentally , we have steelmaking — order . it might be well that that conversation be carry on outside , rather than go on across the Benches while the Minister be reply . at the heart of our decision be two thing : continue steelmaking at Port Talbot and protect steelworker . we have recently hear from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Defence how the west be face " a pre - war world " . will the Minister ensure in her conversation with the Treasury that it understand the vital strategic importance of a virgin steelmaking capability here in the UK ? my hon . friend have a huge amount of knowledge of the steel sector and be a huge champion for Scunthorpe . she know that we be work incredibly hard with the company in her constituency , and we be wait for it to respond to the business plan go forward . we know how important virgin steelmaking be , and we accept , because technology have move on , that go forward 90 % of all steel can be make in electric arc furnace . I call the shadow Minister . Mr Speaker : " the UK steel industry , the trade union , and Labour be … propose an industrial policy worthy of a serious industrial country . " those be not my word but those of the world economic editor of the Daily Telegraph writing yesterday . he also say that " the Government ' s minimalist plan … do just half the job , leave the UK with a stunt second - tier industrial base , the only G20 country lack a sovereign capability in ' weapon grade ' primary steel . " he be right , isn ' t he ? the £ 28 billion that Labour be propose have no plan behind it , and we be not tell what hard worker across the country would have to pay to fill that black hole . Labour have ask for a transition to green steel . it would want we to protect steelworker and obviously would want to protect advanced manufacturing in the UK . customer want clean steel . Port Talbot could no long function with its age blast furnace , and our package will save 5 , 000 job at Port Talbot . co - operative and Social Enterprises what step she be take to help support the growth of co - operative and social enterprise . this week , I speak to a conference attend by build society about how we can increase presence on the high street to help with access to cash and finance facility . the Government provide extensive business support to all business , include social enterprise and co - operative . the British Business Bank ' s recovery loan scheme and start - up loan improve access to finance to help those kind of business to invest and grow . co - operative and social enterprise business provide a fairer way of do business , involve member in great business decision and provide economic growth for local area . however , they be be hold back by financial and regulatory constraint . will the Government match the Labour party ' s and the Co - operative party ' s ambition of commit to address those challenge and double the size of the co - operative sector ? personally , I be a big fan of co - operative movement and the regional mutual bank system in Germany , which I have speak about many time in this place . of course , the Government support the Co - operative , Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023 , which help to maintain the status of co - operative . social enterprise and co - operative can also access support via the business support helpline as well as help through our website and our network of local growth hub . economic growth : regulator what step her Department be take to ensure that regulator support economic growth . at the autumn statement , we announce the decision to extend the growth duty to Ofgem , Ofwat and Ofcom , alongside a series of reform to the duty to hold regulator to account for deliver growth in the sector they regulate . we be also currently consult on proposal to strengthen the economic regulation of the energy , water and telecom sector . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that answer , but on retain EU law reform , in the June to December 2023 reporting period there be only two regulatory reform of note , which be on wine marketing and working time calculation ; the rest be technical correction . what step be she take to speed up reform of retain EU law to ensure that regulation work for business and enable growth ? I be glad that my hon . friend read the report that I send out this week on what we have be do . however , I disagree that only two reform of note have be deliver . we have repeal or reform more than 2 , 000 measure . the Port Services Regulations 2019 , which be not design with UK port in mind , be an example . we have also pass the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 and the Procurement Act 2023 . I remind he that that list be what we be use the schedule for , and there be many other mechanism in the retain EU law programme to deliver on that road map so that we improve our economy and make it more competitive by make sure that our law be tailor to our economy . in support of economic growth , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) cut £ 235 million from Environment Agency budget when she be at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . rather than bring economic growth , that serve to bring sewage growth : sewage discharge double between 2016 and 2021 . I be delighted to hear yesterday that the Government will adopt my Water Quality Monitoring Bill , but will they also restore some of the cut Environment Agency funding to bring back power as well as duty ? a spending review , where we can look at these thing , will be come up shortly , but I really have to challenge much of what the hon . Gentleman say . it be a misrepresentation to say that the issue go on with sewage be to do with the action of my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . this government have be take reform through the Environment Act 2021 to improve the situation throughout multiple government , include the one in which his party , the Liberal Democrats , participate during the coalition . so it be very wrong to make that case . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as Secretary of State for Business and Trade , I be committed to ensure the resilience of the UK ' s critical supply chain . last week , the Government publish the " Critical Imports and Supply Chains Strategy " to help UK business build secure and reliable supply chain . our 18 - point action plan will help business to deal well with global supply chain issue from overcome bureaucratic barrier to deal with severe shock cause by event such as the pandemic , Russia ' s war in Ukraine and the attack on the Red sea that have threaten a key route for global trade . DBT lead the development of the strategy , which be shape by the experience of UK business . I be delighted that representative of industry as well as key international partner join we at the strategy ' s launch at Heathrow airport , which be , of course , the UK ' s large import hub by value . Mr Speaker , I wish you and the rest of the House a happy Burns night for this evening . be it not a scandal that the only way to get the great chieftain o ' the puddin - race export to the United States be by send the vegetarian version ? [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] could not the Secretary of State put that into her 18 - point action plan and get on and do something , or do she want to risk forever be know as a cowran , tim ' rous beastie ? [ laughter . ] I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his esoteric question . we be continually remove barrier to US - UK trade , and we be trade with the US more than ever before . if he have a specific example that I can help with so that he can enjoy his Burns night , I would appreciate it if he write to I , and we will look at the matter in detail . with many bank close on high street , the post office be pick up so much slack , but in rural area the limit place on the amount of cash that can be pay in at the post office be have a real impact on business . for instance , pub have a lot of cash but can not pay it in because of the limit . can the Minister review that and ensure that the post office can take far great volume of cash from rural business ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on this matter , which he and I have discuss on many occasion . the limit be there to try to prevent money laundering , but it be important that the check be proportionate . I have raise their impact on a number of occasion with the Financial Conduct Authority and UK Finance . there be more transparency now and they be work more effectively . I know that the wonderful Ingham ' s fish and chip shop in Filey now experience few problem when it pay in money at its local post office . there be a great opportunity not just for Inghams fish and chip shop but for the post office banking framework to make that relationship more lucrative . I call the shadow Minister . postal worker be the bedrock of our community , but they be be force to work at unsustainable level — something that , sadly , have not be recognise in Ofcom ' s report on the future of universal service obligation . the input of postal worker be critical to a successful Royal Mail , so please can we have confirmation that their view will be consider in any future decision ? that would make perfect sense . we read the Ofcom report into the review of universal service obligation with interest . our clear position be that we will retain a six - day service for our citizen and business , but those view will be take into account . the Secretary of State have often state her support for post - brexit regulatory reform and divergence , and do so again in answer to an early question . be she in a position to deny report in today that the Government have pledge to introduce a requirement that all future regulatory change will be screen to ensure that extra barrier in the irish sea be not create ? that could be a significant impediment to divergence from EU law . I can not comment on the ongoing Northern Ireland political process , to which I be not a participant . however , it be clear that we retain the ability to diverge . I agree with my right hon . friend that if we be to seize the benefit of Brexit , we need to find that comparative advantage over the EU in our regulation , otherwise there would be no point . I remind she that I be the Business Secretary who make sure that there be transparency , rather than an invisible bonfire , in what we be do on EU regulation . I end the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice on 1 January . we have a comprehensive deregulation programme , which I be push . I understand her concern , and I will speak to colleague across department to ensure that they be raise at the high level . I call the SNP spokesperson . will the Secretary of State please confirm that this Government have no plan to alter the legislation on the marketing of infant formula and other breastmilk substitute ? the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point . I be very happy to write to he about it . Royal Mail customer will have welcome the Minister ' s reassurance this week about rule out a reduction to the current six day a week service . however , many customer already feel short change by what be often an inadequate service in their area . do the Minister agree that any propose change must protect the small business whose business model rely on the six - day service , and customer ' right ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this issue . the service have not be satisfactory , and Royal Mail have be fine £ 5 . 6 million by Ofcom as a result . it have employ 3 , 000 more postal worker to address those problem , and we be see some improvement , but he be right to raise the point about our six - day service be vital to business , particularly those in the magazine and greeting card industry . what assessment have the Minister make of the result of private sector trial in relation to the introduction of a four - day week ? will he meet I in due course to discuss the result of those trial ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . it be clearly up to business to decide if they want to trial a four - day week . we have make no assessment of any result . it be our belief that we should not run a stalinist economy , where we tell private sector business how to operate their workforce and on what day of the week — he may differ on that particular perspective — but we have introduce important reform that help business work more flexibly , include the flexible work change that be introduce recently . the Gosport branch of Asda be the first in the UK to ballot for strike action . employee cite issue include low staffing level , health and safety , and delay equal pay claim . consider Asda ' s importance to the UK food chain and employment across the country , what power do the Minister have to ensure that both worker and consumer be protect ? my hon . friend raise an very interesting point . we have look at this particular situation with interest and will continue to monitor it . clearly , Asda be a private company and it be up to it to decide how good to deploy its workforce , but I be very happy to continue our conversation and I appreciate her engagement on this issue . a lot of concern have already be express in the House this week about the steel industry . with the expansion of renewable across Scotland and the rest of the UK , there will be demand for the vital material require to build more wind turbine , which may now need to be source from abroad . will the Secretary of State tell we what step will be take to try to provide the vital material for an important industry ? it be really important for we to not misrepresent what be happen on steel . our steel industry be not disappear ; our steel industry be evolve . we will continue to have significant steelmaking capability in the UK , include produce material for the industry the hon . Lady talk about . but we should also remember that the change to Port Talbot be part of the decarbonisation that all Opposition Members have be ask for . this be the big single emitter of carbon in the UK and this House vote to reach net zero by 2050 . everything we be do be to ensure that we do that in a sustainable and sensible way . follow on from the question by my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , for the sake of clarity , can the Secretary of State confirm that it remain the Government ' s position to ensure that the UK have the capacity to produce virgin steel here in the UK ? the Government maintain that we want to ensure that we keep steelmaking capability in the UK . at the moment , we import ore to make steel . when we talk about virgin steel many people assume there be no import in the supply chain , but there still be , even now , and whatever change we make will require some import . however , we be make sure that our steel industry be more resilient than ever before , at a time when it face oversupply from China and India . that be the real problem face by the steel industry in all of western Europe . we do a lot with tariff measure , such as steel safeguard — I call Debbie Abrahams . so there be a lot we be do . please , do not do that . I call the next member , so I expect you to sit down . it be topical question , not free statement . will the Post Office Minister meet I and my constituent , who be a postmistress ? she lose £ 250 , 000 in 2000 . it be an unusual case , otherwise I would write to he , but it do need he to meet she , so I would be grateful if he would do that . yes , I would be very happy to meet . there be three compensation scheme and it depend on which one she fall into . if it be the group litigation order , an immediate award of £ 75 , 000 can be make ; if it be an overturned conviction , the amount be £ 600 , 000 . I be sure there will be one scheme that the hon . Lady ' s constituent will fit into . I be very happy to meet she to help ensure she find the right one . mining be come back to Cornwall . this week , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for critical mineral , I meet industry leader from around the country at a roundtable here in this place to talk about the challenge the critical mineral industry be face . will the Minister agree to come to a meeting to discuss the challenge face the industry ? demand be go up exponentially , but it be a high risk industry and it need her help . obviously it be important to secure investment in mining in Cornwall , particularly the mining of lithium , which will be critical for our car battery . I certainly agree to be interrogate by the APPG , of which my hon . friend be a powerful leader , and I congratulate she on secure that investment in Cornwall . could minister fix the illogical loophole face by Pixipixel , a lighting and camera hire firm in Acton ? it supply the equipment for the first two series of a popular ITV drama call " Grace " , which be set in Brighton , but because of Ofcom rule about the imposing of regional spending on public service broadcaster , it have now be ban and gazump by a company in Manchester . can this be sort out , because — I call the Secretary of State . it be have a punitive effect on business within the M25 . order . the Secretary of State take advantage ; I do not want the hon . Lady to do exactly the same . I believe that this might be an issue for the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , but if the hon . Lady will write to I , we can look at that specific case . I be grateful to the Minister for work with I on the issue of button battery safety , and grateful for the ongoing commitment of the five work group that be set up in 2022 follow the tragic death of one of my constituent , Harper - Lee Fanthorpe , and the campaign for Harper - Lee ' s law . will the Minister meet I to discuss progress , and , in particular , how the guideline draw up by the Office for Product Safety and Standards can be make compulsory so that more death and injury from button battery ingestion can be prevent ? my hon . friend have do a fantastic job with the campaign , and have make huge progress towards ensure that good practice be follow by supplier . of course I shall be happy to meet she to see what more can be do . Ferguson Marine , the last remain shipyard on the low Clyde , be threaten by the way in which its current work be configure . it badly require an order from CalMac for seven small island ferry . the issue of procurement be one for the Scottish Government and their agency , but will the Minister ensure that no impediment , no obstacle and no rule that be under her control will prevent the order from be give directly by the Scottish Government to Ferguson Marine if they so wish ? I be more than happy to sit down with the hon . member to discuss further his case , but the overriding fact , which he mention , be that the decision sit with the Scottish Government . in the UK we have the National Shipbuilding Office , which provide a wraparound service not only to secure contract but to ensure that ship be build in UK shipyard . importer of short - life item in my constituency , such as seed potato and chill equine semen , be worried about impend import control . will the Minister meet I , and business leader in North Shropshire , to discuss how they can continue their business in the face of these imminent problematic control ? of course I shall be happy to meet the hon . Lady , but let I remind she of what I say early . the border operating model be introduce after extensive consultation with business , lead by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs with the agrifood sector . there have be plenty of opportunity for feedback from business , but I shall be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss specific case . I be sure that the Secretary of State share my desire to revitalise our fantastic local high street . Flitwick Town Council plan to do exactly that , but it need support from the community ownership fund . may I urge the Secretary of State to look favourably on its forthcoming application ? it be good to see the hon . Gentleman work so hard for his community . the community ownership fund sit with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but I be sure that if he make representation to those in the Department , they will be able to give he a more substantive answer . and the final — short ! — question come from Barry Sheerman . will the Secretary of State look at the impact assessment of university ? the traditional university be fail to meet the standard of sustainable development research , and Manchester , Huddersfield and Newcastle Universities be do much well . will the Secretary of State look into that , and push the other university to do well ? this be a matter that sit with the Department for Education , but of course my Department take an interest in all the innovation research that be go on , because it will help to boost the UK economy . I be sure that official in my Department have be look at those assessment , and will be able to provide detail if the hon . Gentleman have a more specific question . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for next week will include : Monday 29 January — second reading of the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 30 January — remain stage of the Media Bill . Wednesday 31 January — motion to approve the draft Electoral Commission strategy and policy statement , follow by a motion to approve the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2024 , follow by a motion to approve the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2024 . Thursday 1 February — general debate on miner and mining community , follow by debate on a motion on freedom and democracy in Iran . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 2 February — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 5 February include : Monday 5 February — remain stage of the Finance Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for the business . I begin by pay tribute on the sad loss of Lord John Tomlinson , who serve as an MP , MEP and peer for over six decade . he be a formidable force and an effective campaigner . our thought be with his family . with Holocaust Memorial Day this weekend , and ahead of this afternoon ' s debate , more than ever we must never forget the horror of the holocaust and other genocide . it have now be over a month since the publication of the House of Commons Commission ' s proposal on the risk - base exclusion of member of Parliament . I thank you , Mr Speaker , the Leader of the House , the Commission , staff and union for all their work thus far . when will the Leader of the House table a motion on this important issue ? it be first promise before last summer , and then before the end of 2023 . the Commission be in agreement , the proposal have wide support across the House , and other be look to we to take action on the culture in this place . while we be on the topic of culture in Parliament , I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in welcome the recommendation of the Jo Cox Foundation ' s report on civility in politic . I know that some recent exchange in this place have cause offence to other , as we do not model the good behaviour that we should . will she join I in remind Members of this , and that Parliament should be the exemplar of respectful and cordial debate ? we see the House and politic at their good this week with the move , heartfelt , cross - party tribute to Sir Tony Lloyd . he remind we that we can have strongly hold , differ view while remain dignified and respectful . the Procedure Committee have now publish its report on Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords , which I welcome . I commend the Committee for its work , and we will shortly be hear from its Chair , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . the Leader of the House have reassure we many time since Lord Cameron ' s appointment that he will be " forward - lean " , and she promise : " when the Procedure Committee bring forward measure … those measure will be put in place . " — [ Official Report , 30 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 1061 . ] can she confirm that she will table a motion forthwith to ensure that Lord Cameron come to the Bar of the House to answer question and statement , as the Committee recommend ? the next Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office question be on Wednesday , so the motion should be table before then . despite war in the middle east , conflict in the Red sea , Russia ' s ongoing illegal war in Ukraine and the venezuelan threat to Guyana , the Foreign Office have fail to meaningfully update Parliament on these international flashpoint . it have offer only two statement since November , with Mr Speaker have to grant 10 urgent question on these matter instead . it be just not good enough . we have have three week of ad hoc business statement to bring in emergency and urgent legislation . the King ' s Speech legislative programme , announce just two month ago , have almost run out . with all the unused parliamentary time , there be no excuse for Ministers not come to Parliament or get on with their day job . we have have another week of ministerial failure , with secretary of State fail to show up . there be no Secretary of State to speak about steel , either today or during the week , which be insulting to the steelworker who face redundancy . the Secretary of State for Education do not show up either . she have have no legislation for month , yet the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in school shamble drag on , and now we understand that the much - need flagship childcare policy be in chaos . can the Leader of the House shed more light on this ? how many parent of two - year - old who qualify and want to take up the offer of free childcare in April will not be able to access it ? and will the roll - out to nine - month - old baby go ahead in September , as promise ? minister seem unable to give those assurance , and provider be clear that the Government ' s flagship roll - out be a sham . another week go by with a fail government who have run out of road , be out of idea and be fail to deliver on their basic promise . that be now the verdict of Conservatives as well , with the Prime Minister ' s own pollster have conclude that they be not " provide the bold , decisive action require " and that " the Conservatives be head for the most almighty of defeat . " those be his word , not mine , and many agree . so can they just put everyone out of their misery , and get on and call a general election ? I thank all colleague who will be mark Holocaust Memorial Day this week and , in particular , those take part in the debate later . clearly , it have additional significance this year . I join the hon . Lady in pay tribute to Lord John Tomlinson , and I thank she for her tribute . I also send my deep sympathy to the family and friend of Sir Graham Bright , the former Member for Luton East and for Luton South . he serve this House and his constituent for 18 year , and this include be John Major ' s parliamentary private Secretary . he be perhaps well know for his private Member ' s Bill that become the Video Recordings Act 1984 , which require all commercial video recording offer for sale or hire within the UK to carry a classification . Legend have it that during the passage of the Bill he have to explain to the Prime Minister of the day what particular act perform on camera warrant particular rating . give that that Prime Minister be Margaret Thatcher , that alone would have warrant his knighthood . many colleague have speak very fondly of he over the past few day , and he will be much miss . let I also thank two delegation to Parliament this week : the family of Liri Elbag , Eliya Cohen , Idan Shtivi , and Ziv and Gali Berman , who be five of the many hostage still hold in Gaza — we must not rest until they be all home — and the ukrainian delegation , to whom I convey our deep respect and solidarity for all they be do to protect our freedom . I wish President Zelensky , " z dnem narodzhennya " and all in the House a happy Burns night . let I turn to the hon . Lady ' s point . she speak about the work the House of Commons Commission , on which we both serve , have be do on the exclusion of member of Parliament who be consider to be a risk to other on the estate . she will know , because she be on the Commission , that we agree with the proposal that have be bring forward . we be wait for a motion to be bring to we by the House . that happen late last week , and we will shortly table that motion for member to see and then bring it forward . the hon . Lady mention the work that the Procedure Committee have do on Lord Cameron , the Foreign Secretary . I thank its member for their work and the hon . Lady for the evidence she give to that inquiry . we have receive that report this week and will shortly be respond to it . I hear her plea to act before next Wednesday , but she should have say next Tuesday , because that be when the next fcdo question be . I join in what the hon . Lady say about the work that the Jo Cox Foundation have do through the Commission . it be very important that we protect democracy . we all know that democracy be under attack , and civility in politic be incredibly important , as be demonstrate , as she say , in the form of the late Sir Tony Lloyd . in that spirit of the Commission ' s recommendation , let I deal with the charge that the hon . Lady have make against our record and that Labour have level against our Prime Minister . our Prime Minister be a man whose migrant parent make sacrifice to ensure that he could have a good start in life . he work hard to make the good use of every opportunity he be afford — he study hard , he push himself . he have many career option , but he choose a life in public service represent God ' s own country . he protect this nation and livelihood from the great financial and health crisis since the second world war . he have rise through hard work , courage and determination to be this country ' s first british - asian Prime Minister . the Prime Minister have show global leadership on many challenge face this country . he be a wonderful dad . he give quietly to charity . he run for his local hospice . he be a cricket fanatic . he still attend home game at the football club he support , despite be Prime Minister and despite it be Southampton . he be a shareholder in three community pub and patron of the Leyburn brass band . he do not just get Britain ; he represent the good of Great Britain — the great thing we have to offer the world , include our value of hard work , enterprise , take personal responsibility and help other . he be in no way confused about where his duty lie . People will not find he tax education or deny other the opportunity he have have ; vote against strengthen our border ; side with militant trade union against the public ; compromise our energy security or nuclear deterrent ; oppose the deportation of foreign criminal ; scratch his head about the monarchy ; duck difficult issue ; or support the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . if the Leader of the Opposition be a weathervane , our Prime Minister be a signpost . he know what he stand for , he know where the country need to go , he have a plan to get we there and that plan be work . further business will be announce in the usual way . that bring I to a slightly difficult problem . Bob Blackman be mean to be represent the Backbench Business Committee , to tell we about its business , but unfortunately he be not here , so I now call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . I associate myself with the remark about Holocaust Memorial Day . I ask the House to note that tonight be Burns night , when we celebrate the work of Scotland ' s great national bard . a new year , a new Tory civil war — just what the UK need — with talk of doom loop , massacre and extinction . if only Members of the Leader of the House ' s party have listen to she the last time she woo they for leadership . she warn they that if they vote for the former Chancellor as leader it would " murder the party " . I know that the Leader of the House be furiously busy with all her " Minister for clickbait " responsibility — those anti - scottish article and sneer video do not write themselves — but as her government grind , punch - drunk and exhausted , to an election , should we not debate some of the key legacy of the last 14 year of Tory rule ? where should we start ? there be still the scandalously unresolved scandal , such as infected blood , the WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — and Post Office Horizon , to name a very few , but have the Leader of the House have time to reflect on recent comment from Sir Michael Marmot , professor of public health at University College London ? he say that Britain in 2024 be start to suffer from victorian disease again , and that " Britain have become a poor country with a few rich people … it ' s bad to be poor in Britain than in most other european country … . poor people in Britain have a low income than Slovenia . " perhaps the Leader of the House will cast her eye over the late Joseph Rowntree Foundation report , which say that more than one in five people be in poverty in 2021 - 22 , with about 6 million in " very deep poverty " that same year . have she not manage to look at that yet ? that be unsurprising , as the Tories seem genuinely untroubled by poverty in the UK . my colleague and I have ask they about it many time , but their eye just glaze over — comfortable , I guess , with the choice they have make , as the PM have say . perhaps we should start our Tory legacy debate with an emerge threat . the Electoral Commission chair warn recently that the Government ' s strict new rule on voter ID risk exclude certain voter group and leave the conservative party open to the charge of bias . I and many other have think for some time that this be simply an attempt at voter suppression from the Government , so do the Leader of the House agree with an erstwhile Cabinet colleague that the new Tory rule be simply , as he put it , an attempt at " gerrymandering " ? will she bring a debate on this important issue to the House before the next general election ? what a bunch of rotter we be , with our anti - scottish article . it appear that the hon . Lady be plan to follow in the footstep of many a great antipodean election guru by use a brilliant new strategy of equate criticism of the SNP ' s performance with criticism of Scotland itself . the latter be a landmass of approximately 30 , 000 square mile , populate by brilliant , creative , stoic people ; the former be a ramshackle separatist movement , full of people who have turn maladministration into an art form . there be one tiny flaw in this new political tactic from the SNP : if we conservative dislike Scotland so much , for some reason the hon . Lady never get round to explain , why on earth would we strive so hard to keep it part of the Union of the United Kingdom ? why would this Conservative Government give Scotland the large funding settlement it have ever have ? why would we have offer its citizen who be wait for NHS treatment additional help and option , which the Scottish Government turn down ? if I want to do Scotland down , I would join , donate and campaign for the SNP , to whose member I would point out that the trailblazer for bring back victorian disease to Britain be Glasgow . watch the hon . Lady ' s inaction , and that of her party , be like watch your much - love neighbourhood be clobber by a bunch of gangster — let we call they the " hole in the budget " gang — hit business , take your cash , make your life a misery and keep the local police force very busy . this new political strategy from the SNP , like everything else that it do , will fail . I call the Father of the House . will my right hon . friend ask the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to make a statement next week on the instruction to the advocate for his Department at the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee ? yesterday , on a number of occasion , the lead advocate say that the design have not be award to Sir David Adjaye , or that he be not the architect . I refer the Leader of the House to the press notice on 24 October 2017 , in which the Department and the Cabinet Office say that Sir David and his team would design the memorial ; the then Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , and the Mayor of London congratulate Sir David ; and Sir David be quote as say that it be " architecture as emotion " . I believe that the advocate may have inadvertently tell the Committee thing that be clearly contradict by the fact six year ago , and by every other quotation until Sir David Adjaye become a name that could not be mention . will the Leader of the House please ask the Secretary of State to consider make a statement to correct what be say to the Committee yesterday , and perhaps acknowledge the four holocaust survivor who give evidence , and look at what they say ? I thank my hon . friend for again diligently raise this important issue ; I understand that the forum in which he can do so be limited , which be why he bring it to the Floor of the House each week . he have put those point on the record , as well as his thank to those survivor for their important intervention . as the Secretary of State will not take question until 4 March , I will again ensure that he have hear what my hon . friend have say . stratford market village in my constituency have provide space for more than 60 much - love independent local business to ply their trade since about 1974 . they be the kind of business that reflect the entrepreneurship , drive and diversity in Newham , but on 10 January , with no warning at all , the trader receive an email tell they that the market village be close with immediate effect . the company that own it be go into administration , leave viable , much - love business in limbo , out of pocket and without a home . I thank our Assembly Member Unmesh Desai and Newham Council for their work on the matter so far , and I hope that it bear fruit , but I know that many similar community have face similar problem . may we have a debate in Government time on whether our council have the resource and power they need to effectively step in and save much - love local space and business when this kind of thing happen ? I thank the hon . Lady for her helpful suggestion of a debate . I be sorry to hear about the situation in her constituency . such market be often a stepping stone for many business to get additional premise of their own . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and its high street team have be collect good practice about where other people have face such situation . there be some good example of what local authority and other group can do to ensure that continuity . as the next question time be a little way off , I will ask official in the Department to contact the hon . Lady to see what more can be do to assist . may we have a debate on the Government ' s massive expansion of free childcare so that we can really scrutinise progress on deliver it , in order to ensure that people can access it , that we tackle workforce shortage , and that the initial stage of implementation go as smoothly as possible in April and September ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question and remind the House that we have an urgent question on that matter on Monday . we be roll out the single large expansion in childcare in England ' s history , ensure that work parent receive 30 hour of free childcare a week , start at nine month and go all the way up to their child start school . she will know that we have increase hourly funding rate with a £ 204 million cash boost this year and more than £ 400 million next year to support the childcare sector to deliver this , but I know that hon . member will want to follow that progress very carefully . on 5 January , Bath receive a red flood alert warning , the high alert warning , which mean risk to life . fortunately , thank to good management by local agency and the council , no life be lose , but the damage be still substantial . yet my council be tell that it be not eligible for funding through the flood recovery framework , because not enough property be flood internally . that be no comfort to flood victim or to the council , because the clean - up operation and the repair to external damage be still very substantial . my council have still not receive any information from the Government . may we have a statement on why certain council area be exclude from the funding through the framework , what the thinking be behind that , how they can be support , and what else the Government can do to help council that have be substantially damage by flood ? the hon . Lady ' s question afford I the opportunity , on behalf of we all , to thank all those emergency service and other who have be work to protect our community through snow , flood and high wind in the past few week . I be sorry to hear that she have not have information through from the relevant Department . I do write last week on a similar matter about eligibility criterion , and I will make sure that she get a copy of that answer from the Department . as departmental question be a couple of month away , I will raise the issue with the Secretary of State . could we want for any well evidence that the mandate for the covid inquiry be already out of date than hear that the evidence of serve and former Cabinet Ministers , and of the former Prime Minister , about the origin of the covid virus have be rule out of order ? let we have a statement from the Government about update the mandate for the covid inquiry two year on from when it be set up , so that it can properly deal with the origin of the disease , the efficacy of both the vaccine and the lockdown , and the huge number of NHS excess death . this be an inquiry that must serve the people of this country and the victim of this terrible disease , and it be already out of date . my right hon . friend raise an extremely important matter . some of the issue that he raise be not in the original term of the inquiry . even if they sit outside the work of that inquiry , the question that he raise be legitimate , particularly for our national security . although it may not be possible to change the term of the current inquiry , which be look particularly at the Government ' s response to that situation , I will certainly alert the Cabinet to the issue that he raise , which be relate to national security . it be Thursday , so we have another question on contaminate blood . as the Government have Sir Brian ' s recommendation on what compensation should be pay in April 2023 , and we be repeatedly tell that the Government be work at pace to be ready for the original November announcement of the final report , can we now please have a statement from the Minister about what progress have be make since last April to update the House , so that we can see that the work at pace be actually happen ? I thank the right hon . Lady for again diligently raise this matter . I meet the Paymaster General yesterday to get an update on progress . progress be be make , and I know that the Paymaster General will want to come to the House to make a statement on that . I know that he will do so as soon as he have something substantial to say , but I can assure the House , which I hope know my interest in this area , that he be work to ensure that justice be serve as swiftly as possible . some time ago , the Scottish Government refuse an instruction from the Information Commissioner to publish write evidence from the Hamilton inquiry into the conduct of the former First Minister Nicola Sturgeon . last month , I attend the Court of Session hearing at which the Scottish Government be humiliate , at great public expense , in their attempt to reject the request . despite a unanimous ruling against they by the high civil court in Scotland , the Scottish Government still refuse to release that information . that extraordinary behaviour would appear to be in breach of the ministerial code , the civil service code and , indeed , the rule of law . may I ask the Leader of the House whether the rule of law in Scotland be at risk and whether we can have a debate and a statement on this matter ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this matter and the disturbing issue surround it . although there be a debate about whether the court decision be bind or be bind in a particular way , we consider it to be a matter of accountability to the Scottish Parliament . I be sure that the Scottish Parliament will be ask question of their Government in relation to those very serious matter , which my right hon . friend have raise today . may I inform the Leader of the House that we already have a holocaust memorial centre at the University of Huddersfield at the heart of Huddersfield ? all Members hope that the new holocaust memorial centre at the heart of Westminster will happen soon . be I right in believe that an illustrious ancestor of her — Raymond Postgate — write a book call , " the Common People " ? be she aware that common people in my constituency and up and down the country be be dreadfully exploit via Rachmanite landlord ? they be be give a miserable life , with rack - renting or let every room in the house as a bedroom . what be go on in the rented sector be a scandal . may we have a debate on that ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I learn something new every session . I shall have to investigate the first half of his question , but he be absolutely right to raise the plight of tenant who either be in unsuitable accommodation or be be exploit by their landlord . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have do an enormous amount of work on that issue , both on build quality and ensure that tenant be protect , and I shall ensure that he have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . energy national policy statement have a significant impact on my constituent . I be grateful to my right hon . friend ' s official and her parliamentary private Secretary for find some information in advance ; I know that the statement be lay before Parliament on 22 November , and it be then declare in a write ministerial statement that they have be approve by Parliament . although I have return to the Back Benches after many year , I remember that the Government in the past lay a resolution before the House , and I participate in that debate on 18 July 2011 . I do not believe we have have a debate on these particular statement , so I would be grateful , even if we have go past the legal deadline , if my right hon . friend find time for one . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that question . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero make a write ministerial statement on 22 November present the five revise energy national policy statement for parliamentary approval . she deposit copy of all those document in the Libraries of both Houses , and they be available on gov . uk . she also send a letter to all hon . member on 9 January highlight the scrutiny period of the NPS . follow the expiry period of 21 day , no objection be receive , and the Secretary of State designate they on 17 January . I fully appreciate that while all the I ' s have be dot and the t ' s cross , my right hon . friend and other Members may feel they have not have the chance to discuss or offer their opinion on they . she know how to apply for a debate , but I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear her concern . I be pleased to hear this week that the UK Government have recognise the funding pressure on local council in England and confirm that there will be Barnett consequential . however , we in Scotland can only hope — and as a keen follower of the problem that we have with the Scottish Government , the Leader of the House will be aware that it be probably a forlorn hope — that the Scottish Government will use the consequential to cover funding gap in our local council and speed up repair to mould and damp in social housing , which be become a critical problem . in Edinburgh we have a housing crisis , and even as we speak my council and other across Scotland be try to figure out how to fill the gap that the Scottish Government have leave . I be , however , disappoint that there be no clear mention in the statement about how the UK Government would enforce measure in Awaab ' s law to improve social housing . may we have a statement on the step the Government be take to enforce those new rule , if only to provide a template for the Scottish Government on how one can support local council ? I think the hon . Lady for her question . at the last oral question , the Levelling up Secretary highlight that local authority have be give the chance to take 100 % of the receipt from right to buy and invest they in social housing . we have provide a very good funding settlement to the Scottish Government — at least 20 % more funding per head than the UK Government spend on the same thing in other part of the UK — but more often than not the Scottish Government do not pass that funding either to local authority or , in the case of support for business , to those business . that be a very sorry state of affair ; if it could be rectify , we would have a much well chance of deal with the issue she raise . as t . s . Eliot opine , time present and time past be inseparable , for we be what we remember — who we have know , where we have be , what we have do . when dementia robs people of those precious memory , as it do for 850 , 000 people , their life be diminish . that often happen with age , and with age come other condition such as arthritis , which affect one in six people , or diabete . can we have a statement on the Government ' s major condition strategy to ensure that that strategy be holistic and take account of the fact that many people suffer from multiple condition ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this very important matter . the Health Secretary will not be answer question until 5 March , so I shall relay to she his interest in this area . we can combat those particular major condition partly through research . as he will know , several research mission in dementia care since 2010 have arrive not just at fantastic new drug but make connection between dementia and those other condition that he outline . I be recently contact by a constituent who have be unfortunately catch out by an online scam involve Google gift card . fortunately , they get their money back , but Action Fraud decide not to investigate . on further investigation , it turn out that , at a time when online fraud be rapidly increase , the number of fraud case be investigate have go down by a third . may we have a debate on what more we can do to make sure that the online world be safe from these scamster and fraudster ? I be sorry to hear what the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent go through , but very pleased that they manage to get their money back . this morning we have the late figure from the crime survey of England and Wales , and I be pleased to report to the House that fraud have decrease by 13 % with notable reduction of 33 % in advance fee fraud and 40 % in other fraud . the action that the police and the other agency that support they on this matter be take be have an effect . we have a plan and it be work . may I , too , send my condolence to the family of Sir Graham Bright , who be incredibly kind to I when I be a candidate and give great support and advice over many year ? I have be robustly raise the concern of resident of Kytes Drive in Watford regard a planning application , include bring a petition to Parliament about the long - term use of the site , to ensure that it would be suitable and use only for people who be veteran , those with disability and old people . I be pleased to say that , by ensure that the chief executive of Anchor hear resident ' concern , I have have a small long - term win : Anchor have agree to pursue a local authority letting agreement prioritise the housing need of people with disability , veteran and other vulnerable people . Ahem . although I appreciate that my right hon . friend may not be able to comment on plan specifically , can she advise I on how I can well encourage the council to take up that offer ? that be a lengthy question , Madam Deputy Speaker — I could hear you cough — but the answer will be short . my hon . friend have provide his own answer and get it on the record . we all encourage the council to act as he wish . the Government ' s flagship policy for a generational ban on tobacco sale have many health benefit , of which the Leader of the House will no doubt be aware , but be she alarmed that it will not apply in Northern Ireland , where it will be frustrate by the EU tobacco product directive ? even if a Northern Ireland Assembly be in place , it could not trump that directive . will she ask for a statement to be make on what be more important : the health of all the people of the United Kingdom or tobacco policy outline by the EU ? the hon . Gentleman will know that one reason we want to get the Executive re - establish be to ensure that the people of Northern Ireland be able to make decision relate to themselves , and that principle also apply to the point that he raise . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear his concern . the UK Government have previously step in and make intervention in the health space . although I note that there would be difficulty with regard to that particular EU directive , I think this be something that the UK Government should think long and hard about . my right hon . friend will know that we have a debate on steel this week in which member on both side of the House raise concern and question , particularly in relation to the UK ' s ongoing ability to make its own virgin steel . that be an incredibly important issue on which there be much more to say . will she support a debate in Government time so that we can discuss it far ? I thank my hon . friend again for her diligent work in speak up not just for steel producer but for the user of those product . it be incredibly important that we retain those sovereign capability . I know that she take every opportunity in this Chamber to champion those issue . I be sure that she will apply for another debate on the matter , and my office stand ready to assist she . I draw the House ' s attention to early - day motion 204 and my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the industrial dispute in the Pensions Regulator have now reach its 50th day because the regulator be offer a pay rise low than the UK Government ' s pay guidance . may we have a statement or a debate on the Government ' s pay review guidance and what action can be take against agency that do not comply with it ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the next chance to question the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on this issue will be on 5 February . I encourage he to attend those question . I bring good news from Kettering , where 16 mature street tree have be save from the chop . Gipsy Lane be one of the old and most attractive road in Kettering , but there be go to be a 340 - house development at the end of it , and under the original planning application , 21 very mature tree be to be chop down to facilitate access . however , thank to the proactive engagement of Councillor Jason Smithers , the leader of North Northamptonshire Council , and of the developer place for People , the good news be that 16 of those tree will be save . may we have a Government statement on the importance of keep mature street tree wherever possible — they be attractive and good for the environment — and will my right hon . friend praise the leader of the council and Places for People for the decision that they have take ? good on my hon . friend , good on Jason , and good on all the resident who support their campaign . I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear that my hon . friend ' s work have be triumphant and encourage he to make a statement , as my hon . friend suggest . the permanent secretary of the Department for Work and Pensions claim that his Department be " make good progress " in deal with its staffing crisis . however , the PCS union have obtain figure for the year up to last November show that while the Department recruit 8 , 495 new staff , there be also 8 , 031 leaver in that year — far short of the aspiration to recruit 5 , 000 staff per quarter . will the Leader of the House seek clarification as to the true state of the staffing crisis at the Department and what action be be take to accelerate the recruitment drive ? I be always here to assist the House and hon . member , but the hon . Lady can raise that matter directly with the Secretary of State on 5 February . at my most recent constituency surgery , I have the pleasure of meet Southend ' s outgoing Member of the Youth Parliament , the amazing Madi Faulkner - Hatt . Madi raise with I the alarming statistic that the number of eligible pupil claim free school meal drop by 26 percentage point when those pupil leave primary school , from 77 % down to 51 % . give that figure from the House of Commons Library confirm that the number of eligible pupil , of course , remain the same , may we please have a debate in Government time on what more can be do to make sure that every eligible pupil be encourage to take up their free school meal at all stage of their education ? I thank my hon . friend for take the time to meet Madi , and I thank the Youth Parliament , which have make that issue its campaign focus for this year . my hon . friend will know that around 2 million pupil currently have free school meal , but we be also do much more outside of term time through our holiday activity and food programme — about £ 200 million be invest in that every year . I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . she will know that the next Education question be on the 29th . at the beginning of the month , I have a meeting with a veteran who come to my advice surgery , who be gay . in what be a genuinely upsetting and move meeting , he describe the profound impact on his life of have live in fear of be convict and of the genuinely horrifying , homophobic environment at his work . we have have a statement and an apology in the House , which be welcome , but we have not have a debate in which the voice of LGBT veteran can be hear and their compensation scrutinise , so please may we have that debate in Government time ? this be a very important issue . I thank the hon . Lady for raise this matter . I be sure that many member would want to attend such a debate — she will know how to secure one . last week , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) raise the issue of those serve in particular part of our armed force or our intelligence agency who be unable to give evidence to that investigation because of the nature of the work they be do , so there be still some unresolved matter that need an airing , and I encourage the hon . Lady to apply for that debate . the Government have rightly give local authority additional money this year to fix pothole , which be dangerous to cyclist , can cause really expensive bill for motorist and make neighbourhood look unsightly . will the Government consider require council to publish information each month about what repair they have do and on which road , in an easily accessible format , to aid scrutiny and accountability so that resident can see what be be do with their money ? my hon . friend raise a very important point and make a very good suggestion . the water be often far muddy by the local authority work with contractor : it pass the money to those contractor , and it be then hard to keep tab on how it be be spend . we know that in certain part of the country , pothole be not be fill in , despite the local authority be give money to do so . by 15 March this year , the Government will require local authority to publish a plan of how that extra money be be spend and , thereafter , quarterly report summarise which road have be resurface . my hon . friend remind we that that plan need to be in an accessible form , because hon . member need to be able to see it , and our resident need to see it too . resident in the new town of Wixams have be wait nearly 15 year for a gp surgery . despite 3 , 000 family have move into the town , there be still no sign of one , with many have to drive over 14 mile for routine or emergency appointment . sadly , they be far from alone across the country in face this challenge . will a Health Minister make a statement on how we can do more to get much need primary care provision into area of high housing growth and how we can reform the system to make sure that these type of challenge can not happen again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter , and I would encourage he to raise it with his local commissioner as well , if he have not already do so . they will be responsible for those capital plan . I will make sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear what he have say , give that her next question be not until 5 March . this week , the Diana , Princess of Wales Hospital in my constituency open its new accident and emergency facility , which will enable patient to get to expert clinician soon than they have be able to do until recently . the building be back by £ 4 . 4 million of Government funding . would the Leader of the House agree to our have a debate on the amount of infrastructure that the NHS have build since the last election to recognise the scale of the investment and the beneficial effect it be have on patient ? I thank my hon . friend and congratulate she on what she have help to secure for her constituent . the Government be invest record sum to upgrade and modernise NHS building so that staff have the facility need to provide world - class care for patient , include over £ 9 billion in this financial year , and total over £ 25 billion over the spending review period . these be incredibly important investment that often not only increase the capacity in place such as her A & E department , but be design with the staff who will be work in they so that they be set out in the good way for they to deliver good care . I have to say that — in some case for the first time — this include facility for member of staff to enjoy a break and a sleep when they need it . in response to my question on 11 January , the Leader of the House tell the House about " people in England pay low tax than people in Scotland " . — [ Official Report , 11 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 455 . ] she also say that her Government have deliver a " balanced budget " . last week , I ask the Leader of the House to correct the record since both those thing be untrue , which she refuse to do . the House of Commons Library have now confirm that no UK Government have deliver a balanced budget since 2000 - 01 and that this government do indeed pay the equivalent of £ 318 million every day in debt interest , while the Scottish Government must by law deliver a balanced budget every year . it have also confirm that the majority of people in Scotland — the majority — pay less tax , include council tax , than they would if they live in England . I can share this information with the Leader of the House if she wish to see it . so I ask again : will the Leader of the House make a statement correct the hugely inaccurate information that she give to this House on 11 January ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I be very careful in the figure that I give the hon . Lady , and I stand by they . they be completely true and factual . in addition to have the Office for Budget Responsibility , we be very open and do not mark our own homework on this front . perhaps before next week , the hon . Lady might like to read what Audit Scotland have say about her own Government ' s performance . as many as 2 million grandparent do not have contact with their grandchild . conversely , the number of child who do not have contact with their grandparent be even high . give those large figure , it be likely that the constituency of every single member in this House have someone suffer from this condition . next week , there be an exhibition in the Upper Waiting Hall with a quilt of love and hope make by grandparent who be estranged from their grandchild . can we have a statement from a Minister on whether the Government will consider amend the Children Act 1989 to give grandchild the right to a relationship with their grandparent when they be block from contact , which mainly happen as a result of breakdown in parental relationship ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . not be able to see a grandchild can often be heartbreaking for grandparent and it be also an experience that the child miss out on , as we know the incredible value that grandparent can bring to their life and upbringe . although grandparent do not have an automatic legal right to see their grand - child , they can try to secure access through an informal arrangement or via a court order . my hon . friend might consider raise his question and helpful suggestion with the Secretary of State for Justice on 20 February . last Friday mark a full year since the Joint Committee on the Draft Mental Health Bill publish its report , set out a series of important recommendation to improve the right of people with mental health problem detain under the Mental Health Act 1983 . in that time , there have be 51 , 312 detention under the Act , accord to NHS statistic publish this morning . despite repeat promise , we have still not have a response from the Government , who will say only that we will get an opportunity to debate any Bill when parliamentary time allow . will the Leader of the House please allow parliamentary time for that vital legislation as an urgent priority , to protect some of our most vulnerable constituent ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise another important matter . she will know that we have a draft bill , and although it be not in the King ' s Speech , when parliamentary time and the legislative programme allow , we will consider bring that forward to the House . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what she have say , and she may be interested to know that I have also be speak to the legislative team at No . 10 , and with official at the Department of Health and Social Care , about measure that the Bill would have help . we still have a number of people in inappropriate care setting , and subsequent review have be initiate by this government — start with Sir Stephen Bubb ' s Winterbourne report , to mention just one — about people with mental , learn or behavioural disability . everyone ought to be in the right setting and be look after , and if we be not able to bring forward legislation , I know that the Secretary of State will be look at practical way that we can make that happen . this Government have do more than any in history to bring job and opportunity , especially manufacture opportunity , to area such as mine , so much so that unemployment in Rother Valley be now only 2 . 8 % . the Leader of the House will know that South Yorkshire now have the UK ' s first investment zone , which will bring 8 , 000 new job — many of they high quality manufacture job — and leverage £ 1 . 2 billion of investment to Rother Valley ' s doorstep . to celebrate the opportunity and wealth this bring for everyone in the country , and the increase in manufacture job in Rother Valley , may we have a debate in Government time on that massive uptick for local economy ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all the work and success that he have be have in his constituency — it be very good news indeed — as well as all the employer , the business community and everyone else who have help to deliver that incredible progress . I be sure he know how to apply for a debate , and I hope that many other member across the House would have similar good news story to tell if such a debate be to take place . g in the market town of Honiton that I represent , youth sport group have be struggle because of inadequate sport facility . that be true of at least three club — football , gymnastic and rugby club — that I have visit . ensure that we have healthy , active child be not just the responsibility of school , so may we please have a debate to discuss how local authority can be encourage to identify space for young people ' s sport ? this be a very important matter — it be important for health , for mental health , and often for the economic regeneration of particular area . the hon . Gentleman will know that the next opportunity to ask question to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport will be on 22 February . I shall ensure that she have hear his concern , and ask she to get her official to contact he to offer some advice . the Leader of the House will be aware that despite be bail out with more than £ 6 billion by the Government , the Mayor of London have continue to plead poverty at every opportunity and seek to deflect blame to the Government for his many appalling failure to keep londoner safe and to keep London move over the past eight year . give that the Labour Mayor of London have now suddenly find more than £ 500 million behind his sofa for pre - election giveaway , will the Leader of the House please confirm how member can have a debate on the power of the Mayor of London and how we can seek an audit of his financial mismanagement of Government and taxpayer ' money ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern and why he raise it . I notice from the BBC London news this morning that the Mayor of London be now go back to the Government to ask they to bail out the black hole that be discover last week in the Met ' s budget . that be despite a £ 6 billion bail - out be give to the Mayor , plus his increase the Mayor ' s part of council tax by 71 % since he come to office . in that debate , we might like to consider the Mayor ' s spending plan , which have see £ 30 million give to union to avoid the 140th strike on the transport network on his watch . a similar amount be spend on increase staffing cost . there have be a 57 % rise in mayoral office cost and a 33 % increase in press spending . there be £ 10 million for the Metropolitan police to determine their personality type , £ 1 million - worth of free advertising for lingerie and vaginal moisturiser — believe it or not — and £ 5 , 000 of taxpayer ' cash for Transport for London ' s staff ' s junk food , despite the banning of junk food advert on the tube . that be what Labour do in power , and we all know what we need to do if we do not want it to continue . I learn to swim at Withington bath — so do I . indeed , the shadow Leader of the House also learn to swim there . it be a lovely edwardian building in the heart of Withington . when the coalition cut hit Manchester so hard around 10 year ago , the council be force to transfer ownership to a community group . under its leadership , the leisure centre have go from strength to strength , and last week it celebrate the completion of a highly successful heritage refurbish project . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the board and volunteer at Withington leisure centre ? perhaps we could have a debate in the House to recognise the work of volunteer and community group in run local facility . what a fabulous good news story . I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate they all . member will know that this be a subject close to my heart . I have go above and beyond to save my local lido , which will this year undergo a huge heritage refurbishment , thank to the levelling - up fund . these thing would not be possible without an army of volunteer , first stand to ensure that the community asset transfer occur , and then also help to run the facility and to engage the community . what a wonderful story . if the hon . Gentleman manage to secure a debate , I will come and listen . it will shortly be 25 year since the establishment of the Welsh Assembly , so we have have 25 year of 60 Senedd Members steal a living from the taxpayer while deliver zero identifiable benefit for the people of Wales to explain their existence . at the Welsh Affairs Committee recently , the Secretary of State for Wales be unable to name even three benefit of devolution when I question he . in 1997 , the Labour Secretary of State for Wales in this place say that devolution be " a process " , " not an event " and should be continuously review — order . I think the hon . Gentleman need to be careful with his language when he use the word " steal " . he might want to reconsider that . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . the member of the Senedd may be questionably obtain a salary for not do a great deal of work — that may be a well way of put it . will the Leader of the House confirm which Department should be review devolution and when the last review be ? can we have a debate on whether the people of Wales be happy with have devolution at all ? the answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question be that it be the Minister with responsibility for the constitution whose remit will cover such matter . the problem he raise relate to the performance of the Welsh Labour Government . I think it be the long period of time that Labour have be in power , and we can really see , give the state of the NHS and the other thing that it look after , what a blueprint for a Labour Government look like . it be a pleasure to bring issue to the attention of the Leader of the House , and the House . this time , it be a good news story . in the light of recent progress in Pakistan on religious education , our heartfelt thank should be give to the Minister for Federal Education and Professional Training for develop the inclusive religious education curriculum for grade 1 to 12 for minority religion in Pakistan . will the Leader of the House enable the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to monitor the situation as it unfold ? unfortunately , not all be good news . I bring the spotlight back to the situation in Tibet , where chinese repression continue to be apply , with human right violation commit especially against Buddhists in Tibet . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn China ' s repression of Buddhists in Tibet , who have a right to hold their religious view ? I thank the hon . gentleman for again bring to the House ' s attention these important matter , which would not otherwise get much airtime . it be nice to have some good news , and it show the difference that particular Ministers can make under difficult circumstance . I be sure the whole House will join he in congratulate that particular gentleman . I join the hon . gentleman in condemn China ' s repression of Buddhists in Tibet . the Foreign Office will monitor both those situation closely . I thank he again for raise they . it be sadly impossible for new patient to find an NHS dentist in Blackpool . it be estimate that 40 % of my constituent — some 35 , 000 people — can not currently access nhs treatment . every single week , I have constituent attend my surgery plead with I to get they the treatment they so badly need . only last week , a mother attend my surgery who have have to remove the tooth of her six - year - old daughter with plier because she be in so much pain and could not access the treatment her family need . as the NHS dentistry recovery plan be long overdue , would it be in order for the House to receive a ministerial statement on when we may finally see some progress on this issue ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . I happen to know from recent meeting with the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , who be responsible for this policy area , that she be do a lot of work , which she will be keen to bring to the House ' s attention in short order . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Government have give a considerable uplift to local commissioner to ensure that provider be in place . from memory , I think £ 50 million be give at the start of last year . I know that my right hon . friend the Minister be interested in what commissioner have do with that money as it be flexibly give — it be not ringfence — although it be specifically give for dentist treatment . she be look into that matter , and I will be interested to see what the answer be in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . secretary of State in the House of Lords : Commons Scrutiny Procedure Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Procedure Committee . Dame Karen Bradley will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . may I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not to the relevant Government Minister ? Front Benchers may take part in questioning . with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Procedure Committee report " Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords " , which be publish yesterday . I thank both the Backbench Business Committee for find time for the statement and the Clerks of the Committee , who put the report together in very short order to ensure that we could report as soon as possible in the new year on this important matter . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that Mr Speaker ask the Committee to examine this issue after the appointment of Lord Cameron as Foreign Secretary . he ask we whether any historical precedent could be adapt to allow non - Members to participate in Commons proceeding , and whether option for scrutiny should extend beyond departmental question to statement , urgent question and debate . I would like to thank the 131 colleague who respond to our survey , and those who submit evidence to our inquiry . almost nine in 10 of those who respond to our survey want to see more direct accountability of Lords Secretaries of State in the Commons . around 85 % think it should include departmental question time , urgent question and statement . almost two third think it should take place in the Chamber . some colleague raise concern that change our procedure to facilitate scrutiny would legitimise the appointment of more senior Ministers in the Lords . the constitutional question of the House in which senior minister sit be not in the Procedure Committee ' s remit , but our clear preference as mps — the elect representative of our constituent — be that Secretaries of State should sit in the Commons . that be why our recommendation be limit to this Parliament , to deal with the issue that the House face now . they should not set a precedent for the future . we have great respect for the work of the House of Lords in its scrutiny of the Government . the other place have great expertise and experience of foreign policy and international affair among its member . the Foreign Affairs and International Development Committees do excellent work hold the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to account , and I support their call for Lord Cameron to appear regularly before they , as Secretaries of State in the Commons appear regularly before their departmental Committees . but their work complement scrutiny in this Chamber — it do not replace it . as the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , tell we , Select Committees and the Chamber have unique mandate , function and purpose . they be not synonymous . scrutiny by elect mp on behalf of their constituent be a fundamental part of our democratic system , as be debate across the Dispatch Boxes between Ministers and the opposition . therefore , every MP should have the ability to directly question the Foreign Secretary . the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , and his ministerial colleague do an excellent job , but the Foreign Secretary be ultimately accountable for the fcdo . as the Leader of the House acknowledge in her evidence to we , there will always be some issue that the House and our constituent would expect the Foreign Secretary to answer for . we consider proposal for use Westminster Hall or Committee Room 14 instead of the Chamber , but they would restrict participation to a fraction of the House . we do not believe that be acceptable or practical . that be why we have recommend that , for the rest of this Parliament , Secretaries of State who sit in the Lords should appear at departmental question time , make ministerial statement and answer urgent question that a Secretary of State in the Commons would normally do . they should speak from the Bar of the House , not the Dispatch Box , which should continue to be reserve for member of this House . such an arrangement will rightly require the agreement of the House of Lords . we be confident that the Lords will agree that in the modern age , and at a time of grow global tension , it be not tenable for the Foreign Secretary not to be scrutinise by elect mp on behalf of our constituent . I therefore urge the Government to bring forward the necessary motion as quickly as possible . follow yesterday ' s debate on the situation in the Red sea , there be no retrospective vote on UK military action . the debate be respond to by the Minister of State from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be a brilliant Minister and answer expertly . in the light of the work of the right hon . Lady ' s Select Committee on accountability for secretary of State in the House of Lords , do she think that another precedent be Lord Carrington ? he resign during the Falklands war for not have anticipate the argentinian invasion , despite warning from member of this House . the question of whether a vote be require for military action be not a matter that the Procedure Committee deal with , but I be sure colleague on the Front Bench hear that point . on the matter of Lord Carrington , the hon . Gentleman will recall that at that time the Prime Minister appoint a deputy Foreign Secretary to sit in this House , so there be somebody with the ability to answer for the whole Foreign and Commonwealth Office , as it then be , in this Chamber . however , the hon . Gentleman make a pertinent point . I thank my right hon . friend for ably chair the Procedure Committee in its deliberation and for compile this topical and timely report . will she assure member such as myself , who can perhaps be regard as sceptical of innovation in this House , that the proposal contain within this excellent report be deeply wed in tradition ? indeed , it be the case that , in 1814 , the Duke of Wellington come to the Bar of the House to answer question from mps . now , while the Duke of Wellington and Lord Cameron may have enjoy rather different campaign in Europe , it be none the less deeply wed in tradition . I be grateful to my hon . friend , the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I know he be very , very concerned with matter of the constitution , and with ensure that we look at precedent . I can assure he that , as Mr Speaker ask we to , we start from historic precedent . he rightly cite the example of the Duke of Wellington in 1814 , who I believe receive the plaudit of member while at the Bar of the House . I think a painting of such can be see in the National Portrait Gallery . I congratulate the right hon . Lady and her Committee on an excellent report . I very much agree with its recommendation . the Leader of the House say that the Government would respond shortly . have she have any indication from the Government that they will accept the Committee ' s recommendation ? she say that it need the agreement of the Lords . what sort of timescale be there for how quickly that process can be agree ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his comment about the report . the report be publish only yesterday , so I would not expect to have hear any response from the Government yet . I be sure that the Leader of the House will ensure that a response be forthcoming shortly . he be absolutely right . we have to bear in mind that the other place be an independent body and its member be govern by its rule , which say that member should not appear before this House without explicit permission from the other place . that include appearance in front of Select Committees , Bill Committees and so on . we will wait to see how long such matter might take , but I hope that the other place will recognise and acknowledge the real concern in this place that we should be able to properly scrutinise . we have to remember that in this House we represent the people who send we here . the other place have great expertise and contain some great mind , but it do not speak on behalf of constituent in the way that we have to as elect member . that be an important distinction . I thank the Chair of the Procedure Committee for her statement , and for her very succinct and helpful answer . we all know Lord Cameron and recognise his ability and quality to do the job that we need . I be very conscious that we live in a very dangerous world , where there be war and rumour of war , to cite the Bible . with the Foreign Secretary in the other place , that leave a gap in accountability . today , I believe that that accountability gap have be address . do the Committee believe that accountability in this House be the priority and that our constituent deserve that as well ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , and hon . friend , for his comment . I would have be disappoint if he have not contribute , so I be very grateful he stay to take part . he be absolutely right . this be the concern that the Committee have have throughout : that there be a democratic deficit if we can not raise concern on behalf of our constituent . we be in our constituency hear what our constituent be concern about , so we know what people on the ground be feel . that be no criticism of any Member in the other place , but they simply do not have that day - to - day contact with constituent . that be why we feel that it be so important , particularly in the world that we see today , that we be able to scrutinise properly the work of the fcdo and the Secretary of State . we be not suggest that the Secretary of State should take part in debate — we accept that debate be a different matter — but there will always be statement , and some urgent question , to which it be appropriate for a Secretary of State rather than a Minister to respond . again , this be no criticism whatsoever of the excellent Ministers in the fcdo , but at time a Secretary of State have to be the one who respond , and that be what we have put in our report . Backbench Business Holocaust Memorial Day I beg to move , that this House have consider Holocaust Memorial Day . I thank the right hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Nadhim Zahawi ) — who be not in the Chamber — the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) and the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for co - sponsor the debate . let I also pay tribute to two organisation , the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust , both of which devote much energy and time to organise the event that help we to commemorate the holocaust . without their excellent work , we would not keep alive the memory of those who lose their life in the Nazi death camp , or indeed those who be kill in other genocide from Rwanda to Cambodia and from Bosnia to Darfur . without they , our effort to learn the lesson of history would weaken and fade away . this be the last time I shall have the privilege of participate in this important debate , but it could not be a more difficult and depressing time to do so . I have just return from a short visit to Israel . we go to support the people who live on Kfar Azar , a kibbutz that we have visit in February last year . many of those live on the kibbutz be people commit to peaceful co - existence with their neighbour in Gaza , but tragically many be kill on 7 October , many who survive be distraught because their love one be capture as hostage , and many , especially the woman , be treat with the utmost abominable , sadistic cruelty , sexually assault in utterly inhumane way , and then murder . Israel and its people be experience a national trauma and a real , existential fear for their survival , with memory of the holocaust at the heart of their mind ; and the same be true in Gaza , with innocent civilian experience a similar national trauma , an identical existential fear and a comparable terror of genocide as they live with bombardment , death , injury , displacement , and a lack of humanitarian aid . so we meet at a deeply depressing time to reflect on the holocaust , with many ask themselves , " when will the world ever , ever , really learn from our past ? " but the truth be that we must keep try . this year ' s focus for Holocaust Memorial Day be the fragility of freedom . that theme allow we to reflect on how , by well understand the past and well understand how easily freedom can be erode , we can act today to make the world a well place for those flee persecution today . I want to raise these matter in the context of my own family ' s experience . like other , I lose close relative in the holocaust : my grandmother , whose last write word to her son , my uncle , be " Don ' t forget I completely " , and my uncle , whose wife write in a letter plead for his release , " he ' s only a number to you . he ' s everything to I . " but I have other relative who escape day before the start of the war , and be disperse across the diaspora as they seek safety . they too be victim of the assault on Jews , they too suffer hugely , and they too should be the focus of our concern as we commit ourselves to its never happen again . my grandfather come to England on 29 March 1939 . he be 66 and have just recover from a prostate operation and an embolism in his leg . we have a powerful account of his experience and emotion in the diary that he keep . he describe his last visit to his parent ' grave in Vienna , in tear because he would never visit those grave again . he recall how his parent , my great - grandparent , visit the grave of their own parent , my great - great - grandparent , in Poland , in tear because they be drive out of their home by pogrom — a never - end cycle of violence . my grandfather describe his feeling a few day after arrive in England : " because of the lack of language skill very lonely , depressed , can not memorise , miserable pronunciation . live like a recluse . " even six month later , he say that those who stay in Vienna " may have save themselves from all the horror and all the difficulty of emigrate . " he talk about antisemitism in Britain and how it reach up into the Government , when the only Jew in the Cabinet be sack by Neville Chamberlain . on his arrival in Britain , my jewish refugee grandfather be classify as an " enemy alien . " that be later change to " friendly , " but he be still an alien . at 8 . 30 be on 27 June 1940 , in the middle of a war that lead to the death of 6 million Jews , my grandfather be in his bath and there be a knock on the door . he be arrest , remove from his home and intern . he try to ring his doctor to certify his illness but then , as today , no doctor pick up the phone . he be take to Huyton , in Liverpool , and give a number : " Group number 28 / 2 , number 1428 . " he be house in overcrowded condition with a rubber sheet , straw and blanket . in the early day , he be not allow to write or receive letter . the sanitary condition be dreadful , and the german Jews find themselves house with german Nazis . his freedom be indeed fragile . our treatment of jewish refugee be unconscionable . fast forward to my own experience . I come to the UK from Egypt , stateless , in 1949 . after the creation of Israel , Egypt become an increasingly hostile environment for Jews . my father have a stone throw through the window of his office and , with the memory of the holocaust still raw in his mind , he decide to get the family out of Egypt . we be reject by three English - speak country , and the UK finally , to my father ' s eternal gratitude , give our family of six entry visa to this country . my father ' s freedom be indeed fragile . five year later , we be still stateless and my father apply for british nationality . at that time , my mother be die in hospital and my old sister and brother be away at school and university , so I be at home with my young sister . she be six and I be nine . a Home Office inspector come to tea . I remember that occasion vividly as , instead of our usual boil egg and toast , we have to eat cucumber sandwich and fruit cake , which I absolutely hate , have grow up on succulent fresh fruit in the middle east . bad of all , we be interrogate — two young girl on their own — for a full hour on who our friend be , what book we read and what game we play . my freedom be indeed fragile , deal with a hostile , not friendly , environment that remain forever lock in my memory . what do all these story tell we ? my family know , and indeed the family of million of refugee know , that freedom be never guarantee . we should understand that how we treat those who escape persecution and genocide be central to our reputation as a country that boast a humanitarian approach to genocide and the holocaust . I commend the right hon . Lady for secure this debate and for the tone of her speech . Most of we be proud friend of Israel . I think of what the nation of Israel be put through because so many people would not speak out , and we see the result in the horrific atrocity that be remember today . do she agree that we remember not out of a sense of morbidity , but out of the absolute necessity to ensure that the lesson teach by the slaughter of the jewish people be learn by people of all faith , so that it be never permit to happen again ? I completely share that sentiment express by the hon . Gentleman . as I be say , we be not as good as we proclaim to be . my grandfather do not feel welcome and I do not feel want as a nine - year - old girl . the asylum seeker who try to come here today face a similar hostile environment . they be tell by lead Government politician that they pose an " existential threat " to the west ' s way of life , that they be part of a " hurricane " of mass migration , that mp feel " besiege by asylum seeker " and that asylum seeker be " invade " Britain . we should reflect on what we say and what we do today before we exercise any moral entitlement to condemn the atrocity of the past . the language we use today matter ; the law and practice of today design to exclude many of those seek freedom from persecution , which make a mockery of our commitment to the victim of genocide , matter ; the fee we charge for visa today matter ; and our refusal today to allow those seek asylum to work matter . the hostility my grandfather face in 1938 and the trepidation I feel when subject to question in 1954 echo through the generation . all of this contribute to our credibility in the debate on the holocaust and subsequent genocide . so before we applaud ourselves for keep alive the memory of the holocaust , we should think about how fragile freedom be then for those who seek to escape death and how fragile it remain today . we must take responsibility and stand up to genocide wherever it rear its ugly head , and we must protect those who seek refuge in Britain . if we stand by while genocide unfold , or fail to protect those who need it the most , the horror the like of which my grandfather , father and even myself experience will have all be for nothing . freedom be one of our basic value , so surely we owe it to our child and our child ' s child to be able to stand up and really mean it when we say , " never again . " . I call the Father of the House . I apologise to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for miss the first minute of her speech . I be try to get a transcript of the hearing yesterday at the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill , when four of the witness be Joanna Millan , Anita Lasker - Wallfisch , Dr Martin Stern and Dr Lydia Tischler , each of whom be a holocaust survivor . some in the House will also have be present at the holocaust memorial commemoration when the holocaust candle be light — five of they be light ; I be ask to stand in for someone who have have a transport difficulty ; I do the one for those who have suffer at Darfur . we have be give a good introduction to this debate with the move speech we have just hear . I hope it will be possible to put on wide record the experience of the four people I have cite , who come as witness to the Committee have be produce by Baroness Ruth Deech , who herself talk about how her family have be destroy in the Nazi holocaust . we have rightly be remind that our hand be not clean . it would have be possible for the state of Israel to have be create in the 1930 , and possibly 6 million people would have thus survive . three quarter of the Jews in Europe die . I have say in the past how much I welcome the emphasis that the Holocaust Commission have put on education , which have be follow up by word from the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation . I have say that I have have a vague idea that perhaps 10 of my grandfather ' s extended family have die , but we now know that the real figure be more than 110 and possibly more than 120 . that kind of education matter . I do not claim to have have the family experience that the right hon . member for Barking have have , but I think that more of we will know and understand more if we have a personal connection of some kind . I have speak in the past about my first cousin once remove , George Woodwark , who be one of the Westminster medical student who think they be go to help people suffer from malnutrition in the Netherlands , but be divert to Bergen - Belsen , where they help to save the life of two third of those who be still breathe at the time of liberation . on another occasion , we should have a further debate about the controversial proposal for a memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens , but I do not want to disturb this debate by go into too much detail about that now . what I will say be that if people get the chance , they should go to the Holocaust Galleries at the Imperial War Museum and , if possible , read a copy of the book " the Holocaust " produce two year ago by James Bulgin , which describe how thing grow . I will quote a paragraph from the book about Adolf Hitler : " Hitler ' s early year of adulthood be spend pursue an unsuccessful career as an artist in Vienna . service in the First World War change his life , however , give his aimless existence a new sense of purpose and direction . radicalise by the shock of defeat , he become convinced that Jews have conspire to ensure Germany ' s downfall . these idea be first introduce to he by soldier he be convalesce with after be injure during the war . after the war , he be send to spy on a Nazi meeting , but become enrapture by the message of the movement — by 1921 , he have become the leader of the Nazi Party . in 1923 Hitler lead an ill - fate attempt to overthrow the government which become know as the Munich Putsch . he plan to take control of the bavarian state government and then march on Berlin . the uprising be quickly suppress and Hitler be arrest . he be sentence to five year in prison for treason , but be release after just eight month . " that be a decade before Hitler take his National Socialist party — the Nazi party — from do pretty badly in the last election in the 1920s to do reasonably well in the proportional representation election in 1933 . the people who think they have control of Germany think they would make he Chancellor as a way of control he ; they be wrong . in any education associate with the holocaust — or whatever name people choose to call it , because " the holocaust " be a relatively recent name for the horror , the terror and the intended annihilation of a whole people — we need to understand that people can come up in the way that Adolf Hitler do . they may have go to a meeting , find a small group , turn it into a more powerful one , recruit a private army and start march around with the aim of take control . if that sound familiar from recent event in other country , so be it . we have to beware of private militia . we have to give the state a monopoly on resist the potential of violence , so that it can resist by force those who be behave dangerously badly . we have to ensure that message be not know just in this country , but in other country as well . when I first stand for election , there be about 40 country around the world that have reasonably democratic political system , in which people who lose election accept the fact they have lose . that number increase to about 80 or 90 , while the number of country in the world rise from about 190 to 210 . we be now , I think , go backwards . More people may have a well standard of life , but I do not think they have a well standard of democracy . the flexibility of people who be willing to use election as a way of accept defeat , not a way of guarantee victory , matter . we have to have a way of controlling , and if necessary confront with force , those who would use force to subvert our country or any country , or would try to launch a genocidal attack on a whole group of people define by their race or religion — or , for those who be jewish , the overlap of the two . when there be the attack on 7 October in Israel , on Israelis , someone write to I say , " why do they keep pick on we ? " there be 16 million Jews around the world , but the number would probably be three time high if it have not be for the holocaust . we have a responsibility to get well education about the holocaust go . we ought to ensure that people do not just get the chance to see an exhibition , but that in virtually all part of their life , whether geography , history , current affair or international relation , they understand how people rise to take control of their country . People should be able take part in something that be different and an alternative . I understand that I will not always get my way — within my own party , within Parliament , and within the country . I might not always be re - elect . it be important that we learn the lesson that democracy be about try to achieve a good purpose but be willing to be defeat and to try again , without take to the street with gun or go into exile . even more importantly , we have to ensure that people do not find themselves dead because of other people ' s prejudice and very cruel behaviour . I , too , thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time for the debate . I be grateful for the way in which the application be deal with . when we go to the Committee , I feel that we be push at an open door . its willingness to find time in the Chamber be exceptionally welcome , because this year of all year it be important that the debate take place right at the heart of Parliament . it would have be no less powerful in Westminster Hall , but it really matter that it be here . I pay tribute to my co - sponsor , the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) . her speech be one of the fine I have hear in my 22 year in Parliament . it would have be powerful just for she to share her family experience , but for she then to take that experience and draw parallel and lesson for the world today make it a wholly exceptional contribution . she will be remember and miss in future Holocaust Memorial Day debate . next year , it will be 80 year since the end of the second world war . with every year that pass , the act of memorial become more and more important . member can do the math for themselves : I be bear in 1965 , 20 year after the end of the second world war . I be bear into a world where many of the old people in my community have live experience of it . they have fight in different part of the world , or make a contribution on the home front . I grow up read comic_strip that be root in the second world war — the Victor , the Hotspur and Warlord — so even in that way there be a context that I understand , which be unavailable to my child , who grow up with comic_strip full of japanese anime or whatever . if they have child , they will doubtless look at I blankly and say , " comic_strip ? what be you talk about ? " as we get far from the live experience , and those who survive the holocaust or serve in the second world war become rare , moment such as this become more important . as the right hon . Lady say , the work of organisation such as the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust — I pay particular tribute to the work of Karen Pollock — become more important too . in the community that I represent in Shetland , we have our own story to tell on Holocaust Memorial Day . the Shetland bus be a fleet , or progression , of small fishing boat that go from Lunna and Scalloway in Shetland to bring those who be flee persecution and whose life be at risk in Nazi - occupy Norway to safety — in Shetland , and then in the United Kingdom mainland . when we talk about the Shetland bus , we talk mostly about the work that it do in bring down airman and other to safety , but it should be remember that no few than 350 refugee come to Britain through that route . they be fugitive of the Gestapo . they be not all Jews , but many be . indeed , I come across an article in the jewish Chronicle from 2018 that highlight an episode that I have never hear of . I share it with the House because it be remarkably potent to think of the contribution that my small community , right at the very north of this country , close to Norway than to London , be able to make in that struggle . it record : " individual story from individual sailing bring a human face to a brave , secret expedition . just one example be the Bus ' first loss , Nils Johansen Nesse . after drop an agent in B ø mlo , Norway , Nesse ' s fishing boat Siglaos start the return journey to shetland in dreadful condition . Aboard be seven passenger rescue from Norway , include three child . after several hour at sea battle the weather , the Siglaos be attack by enemy aircraft . Nesse , who hold his position at the steering wheel , sustain injury to the leg and the head . the boat return safely to Shetland , but Nesse lose the fight for life , age 23 . today , on a calm day in this picturesque , close - knit harbour town , it ' s hard to imagine such heroic endeavour take place . " imagine they we must , because it be part of history , and part of what bring we here today . we have to recognise the context of today ' s debate : what be happen in the world , and what be happen in Israel and Gaza as we speak . apart from anything else , we know that the jewish community in this country feel so much more at risk and vulnerable than ever , as a consequence of what happen on 7 October . there be a balance to be strike . the focus have to be on what happen — otherwise , we risk disrespect those who perish and those who survive it , and the family for whom it be a live experience — but surely the whole point , as other have say , must be to ensure that it do not happen again . that be why when I read story about a restaurant opening in Jordan call " October 7 " , frankly I despair . it be something that have to be call out and deal with wherever it happen . as somebody who have massive reservation about what Netanyahu be do in Gaza — and we can debate that another day — I look with horror at the incipient antisemitism that be creep up in so many different way . let we not forget that antisemitism — something that be wholly irrational but that we never seem to eradicate — be at the root of what happen in the holocaust . the price of it not happen again be that those of we who care about what happen in the past have to be honest , open and courageous in call it out when we see it start again . if we wait until it have take hold , it will be too late . I be go to talk to the House about my own personal experience of genocide : Bosnia in 1992 - 93 . I be in Germany command an infantry battalion in 1992 when I ring my mother . I say , " Mum , my camp be beside this ghastly place call Bergen - Belsen . do you know , Mum , it have rectangular mound with sign that say , ' here lie 3 , 000 body . ' it ' s heathland . it ' s a foul place . " she say , " I know , Robert . " I say , " how would you know , Mum ? you ' ve never be here with I . " she say , " I go there in 1945 . " in 1945 my mother be a member of the Special Operations Executive , in something call the FANY — the first aid Nursing Yeomanry . it be the uniform they put spy into . she have go there to try to find woman who have be catch by the Germans and put into concentration camp . seventeen SOE woman have be kill — they be murder , not execute . I ask my mother , " why the heck haven ' t you tell I this before ? " she have only tell I that she be SOE a couple of year before that . she say , " because I be ashamed . " I ask , " what do you mean you be ashamed ? as soon as you could , you join up , you learn to parachute and you learn to fight the Germans . you do your bit . " and she say , " you don ' t understand ; I be ashamed because genocide have occur in my generation and we be all responsible . " that be what this be all about . we be all responsible for what happen in this world , and genocide happen so easily . I do not understand what my mother be talk about until a few month later , when I go to Bosnia as the British United Nations commander . there be one hell of a lot of kill around we . I be appalled . to be honest , I go into a bit of a funk about it . I could not believe what I be see . I will not repeat some of the stuff that I see , but how about crucifixion on barn door ; people scalp ; people ' s eye pull out with implement that be design just to do that ; and woman in tree , because they have be rape and have then hang themselves — they be mainly bosnian Muslims . I be horrified , and then I feel what my mother have tell I about : shame . why have I not be able to stop this ? I have soldier and arm , and I be represent the great , mighty world forum of opinion , the United Nations . yet near I , woman , child and man be be murder , stupidly . they be all South Slavs ; they just have different religion . thing get bad . let I give the example of Ahmi ć I . on 22 April 1993 , the European Commission ambassador ask I to try to stop the battle , and I ask how . he say , " I ' ll deal with the politic ; you deal with the front - line . " I think , " you ' ve get the good deal , mate . " anyway , I go to the frontline . as I go to the bosnian Muslim frontline up on the hill , above the La š va valley , a commander say to I , " we be not stop this battle . " I be try to stop the battle and bring about a ceasefire . " we be not stop this " , the commander say , " because at Ahmi ć I village , woman , child and man be be massacre . " and I say , " no , that can not be happen " . I do not think that could actually happen in this day and age . so I say , " look , if I go there with my man and I discover you be wrong and I come back , will you stop fight ? " he say yes . I come off the hill and go down into the valley . I be with my platoon — about 30 man — and have four armoured vehicle . we be attack as we drive along the valley by the joker — Bosnian Croat special force — but we just ignore they as their attack bounce off . as I go into Ahmi ć I , the first thing I see be the minaret , crippled and broken . it have be bring down . then I go all the way through the village — it be a linear village about a mile long . when I take my man all the way to the top , I say to Alex Watts , my platoon commander , " put a section on either side of the road in a sweep position . let ' s go down and find out what ' s happen . " I walk down the road with my platoon commander in front of I . we start find house that have be destroy . and then , at one house , the soldier call I over and ask I to take a look . in the doorway be a man and a teenage boy . they be dead ; they have be burn . around the back of that house , the man find a cellar . when I go in , I be hit first by the smell . then my eye focus and I see what be in there — it look like body . there be bone and head — there be a head bent back , and I see the eye . I rush outside and be sick . I think , " God , how can this happen ? " and I be there , with this great UN , the people who be mean to police the world , and I have fail . I then have to make a decision . my instruction from the British Government — the Ministry of Defence ; the politician — be that I be neutral and be not to get involve ; this be not my war . I be there purely to deliver aid . I think that be appalling . the whole point of the United Nations , I think , be to stop people die . so I extend that role a bit . I escort aid , but if people attack I , I respond pretty robustly — not I , but my man . my man be great . do you know how we have to clear up that village ? do you know what genocide mean ? it mean some poor devil with shovel have to clean it up — in this case they be my bandsman , who be actually medic . why do I choose the band to do that ? it be because they be slightly old than most of my man . for some reason — I be sure that people will understand this — I feel that 18 - year - old should not be involve in clear up body . I think that a chap in his mid - 20 , perhaps marry , with some sort of sanity , should do it , rather than an 18 - year - old lunatic — I don ' t mean lunatic ; I mean a boy , with all the testosterone in he . I also have girl — sorry , that be the wrong term ; it ' s woman these day . you can not be a girl if you be over 14 , as I be tell on the course I go on . I remember this corporal in the band shovel up the remain of a body , and say , " Sir , this be Europe in 1993 , not Europe in 1943 . this be appalling . " I say , " gosh , yes . yes . " the next day I find a whole family — father , mother , boy and girl . the little girl , who be about seven , be hold a puppy . they be all dead . they be all in a line , where they have be shoot . I say , " oh , gosh . pick they up . take they to the morgue . " we do that . we take they to a morgue . it be horrific . can you imagine what it be like for our soldier to see that ? all they see be their own family — their sister . we take this family to the morgue , and I think , " well , that ' s it . do . " the next day , I go down that road again . guess what ? the family be back in front of their house . guess what else ? Wrong morgue . they be Muslims ; I have take they to the Croat morgue . I just could not believe it . we then have the problem of what to do with the body . no one be go to deal with they . it be nothing to do with I — I be not mean to get involve in the war — but I have to deal with they , because of the disease , the smell . I get my Royal Engineers — lovely bloke — to dig a big pit , and we make a mass grave . we put about 100 body into that pit . even then , we get it wrong — no one have teach I how to make mass grave — because we put they into the pit in plastic bag , until the International Committee of the Red Cross delegate , who happen now to be my wife , come along and say , " what the hell do you think you ' re do ? " I say , " I ' m bury people . " she say , " you ' re not bury they in plastic bag . that ' s not how you do it , " so she lead and my man empty the body out — horrendous . that happen in Europe and , as the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) say , watch out because it happen elsewhere . this happen in Europe , and we could not understand it . when we talk about the holocaust memorial theme be fragility , I call it the fragility of decency . People ' s decency can rapidly be shatter . after all , all those people I see be normal human being . I think — I don ' t know why — " to hell with this ! " , pick up my satellite phone and ring the Security Council of the United Nations from Bosnia . I get through to the operation room and say , " the Security Council be visit Bosnia next week . come and see what be happen out in my area . " I didn ' t think anything of it , but next week I be tell , " the Security Council of the United Nations be come to visit you . " I think , " my God , I must be important " — of course I wasn ' t . they come , and I remember say to the Argentinian Security Council member , " look , sir , we have to do something about this . this be genocide . " they refuse to accept it as genocide for several year . I always call it genocide ; it be call crime against humanity . the definition of genocide be simple , fundamentally : try to eliminate a group of people for be a group of people that be separate . he say , " I totally agree . " the Security Council of the United Nations set up the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia within a month . I have give evidence in four trial at the icty , and I have give evidence that be difficult . my man find it difficult — your soldier find it difficult . if there be a theme this year , it be one that have run along the same line forever . Genocide occur not just in the second world war by the way ; it extend back well into the ' 20 and have occur repeatedly since . our job be to highlight the fact that it have occur . our job be to make sure that we shout loudly that genocide have occur in the past , and we like to think that it will not occur in the future , but it damn well will . let we try to lessen incident of genocide by shout as loudly as we can , " never again " . what an honour and privilege it be to follow the right hon . and gallant Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . I know he take this opportunity every year to remind we that the kind of barbarity he see be ever present in our world and that the only thing to do be to try to bring attention to it and to stop it from happen again . I be truly grateful to he for his personal testimony . I also thank my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) . what a privilege it be to listen to her speech , too . I be so grateful to she for talk to we about her experience and the lesson that she and we must draw from they . there be so much she say that be absolutely spot on , and she be absolutely spot on that the language we use today truly matter . I join colleague in express my gratitude to the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust for the amazing , extraordinary and dedicated work they do . at a time when hatred and mistrust be surge , this work be more important than ever . when I reflect on the holocaust , I simply marvel with horror at how ordinary people could herd child , toddler , babe in arm , woman , elderly people and the infirm into a gas chamber to kill they : the industrial slaughter of human being . they be vulnerable human being , include tot , who , in the normal course of the world , we would do our utmost to protect , whether they be ours or not . I just fail to comprehend what make ordinary people act in that way , and I fail to comprehend the scale and depravity of the holocaust . this year mark the 30th anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda , so if hon . member will allow , I shall give a voice to the testimony of Daphrosa , one of the survivor of that atrocity , and put it on the parliamentary record . before the genocide , Daphrosa live with her husband and five child . her husband have a good job as a customs officer , and she have open her own business , run a bar from the side of their home . they be happy . her husband would always come home with present for the child , and they would go out together to the lake — they have fun . they weren ' t rich , but they be happy . for year before the genocide , though , hatred and suspicion — word — have be grow , fuel by divisive politician and medium incitement . Daphrosa hear the rumour be spread and rumour that her husband be a supporter of the rebel . discrimination and segregation start to take hold , with shop refuse to serve Tutsis and even some church refuse to offer the Eucharist to Tutsis . her husband be scared , but even when trouble be be stir up in the year before 1994 , Daphrosa feel protect . her Hutu neighbour sometimes drink at her bar , eat she praise chicken and call her grandma . Daphrosa ' s Hutu housekeeper promise to protect she . but prejudice against Tutsi people be strong , and the dehumanising bile spread over the radio be powerful enough to turn those same neighbour into killer , rapist and torturer . when the genocide begin , Daphrosa try to continue with her normal life . on the third day of the genocide , she and her child flee , but her husband be capture and beat , and she be force to return home . her injured husband be sit in a chair in the living room . Daphrosa and her daughter be force to take off their clothe . the housekeeper who have promise to protect they be the first to take part in their rape . Daphrosa ' s eld son be call Allan . she remember he as the model child , clever , with a great future in front of he . Allan try to stop the rape , but the man beat and slash he until he die and then throw he behind the chair . they rape Daphrosa and then her daughter . they slash her breast and they mutilate she . her husband be force to watch the nightmare , terribly injure from blow with hammer and nail club . he do not die until the next day . on the third day of their torment , the militia bring a community officer with they . she take away the child , supposedly for protection , but Daphrosa hear the man joke that the girl would soon become their wife . Daphrosa be leave in a home that have become a live hell , with the corpse of her husband and her son . neighbour come to the house to loot it simply ignore her plight , step over she and even step on she . miraculously , Daphrosa ' s four young child survive . the two young , Innocente and Eric , be take in and hide by a neighbour after be remove from the house . the old girl , Aline and Tina , be find alive in the capital Kigali after the war . however , as we know , survival do not mean an end to suffering . Daphrosa , Aline and Tina all fall pregnant as a result of the rape they be subject to , and they be infect with HIV at a time when medicine be extremely scarce . aline ' s own testimony tell how she be rape countless time after be take away from her mother and their home . not only that , but , after their return , as the only survive tutsi from their village , Aline endure further torment from the taunt of neighbour , who spread rumour about how she have be infect . at the time of the genocide , Aline be 14 year old . when she tell her story year later , at the age of 25 , she be live in despair while her rapist now live happily with family and child . in her word : " I have no future . I have no life . . . " to be honest , I struggle to imagine how anybody could endure such trauma , and cope with the mental and physical scar of that ordeal . as we know , so many other endure these same terrible experience , and as many as 1 million Rwandans be murder in less than 100 day . the scale be truly shocking . there be many appalling echo of the holocaust in what be do to Daphrosa , her family and the hundred of thousand of other . of course there be difference , but , like the holocaust , the rwandan genocide be build on decade of institutionalised racism . like the holocaust , it be fuel by dehumanising propaganda . like the holocaust , it be organise and systematic in its brutality and , like the holocaust , the genocide in Rwanda be perpetrate , collaborate with — and resist by — ordinary people : ordinary people such as Daphrosa ' s neighbour who see what be happen and make horrify choice about how to respond . unlike the holocaust , the rwandan genocide happen in most of our lifetime , just 30 year ago . " never again " rang hollow in 1994 . in truth , I fear it ring hollow again today . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , who remind we of the importance of the experience in Rwanda . just as there be echo of the holocaust in Rwanda , as she share with we the testimony of that particular family in Rwanda there be echo of what happen to some of the people in the 7 October attack : breast slash , people rape and brutality take place in front of family . I thank she for share that . when I use to deliver holocaust education as a secondary school history teacher , I use to put up picture for my student of the holocaust and those appalling scene that we all know too well . we use to show the video footage and the picture of the gas chamber and of the body of murder Jews pile high . never do I think that I would have the experience in my lifetime of visit the site of a pogrom and smell the rot flesh of jewish people who have be murder . that happen for I three and a half week after 7 October , when I visit Israel with my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) . that be a memory and a trip that will live with we all . although in my 14 year in Parliament I have take a number of parliamentary trip , I have never undertake a visit that have be more important to I — and important to I in my lifetime , not just as a Member of Parliament . we visit Kfar Aza , the kibbutz that the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) speak about . it be found by peaceniks and lead by a peace - love leader , who be also the chair of the regional council and who be pick out and shoot by Hamas fighter on his own doorstep specifically because of his leadership of that peaceful group . at the time of our visit we could still smell the blood and the flesh that be still rot in that community . as my hon . friend the Member for Hendon will attest , we also visit the base where the body — or should I say the body part — be be identify . I do not think either of we will forget the emotion we feel when the door be open to where the body be be keep in the refrigerator . the wave of smell come towards we be truly shocking . have deliver education on the holocaust , I never think that in my time I would bear testimony and see the body and smell murder Jews . it be a truly horrendous visit , but one I be very proud to have make , and I be pleased to come back here and at least share that experience . when I deliver that education on the holocaust to year 9 student , what do I teach ? I teach they about boycotts and how people be tell not to buy jewish good and product . I teach they about jewish community facility and synagogue be attack . I teach they about how Jews use to huddle in dark space , about how they be hold in captivity against their will and about the people shout on the street for the death of Jews . I teach they about how child be indoctrinate with hate against the child of Israel . I be afraid all that be what we be see today across large part of our own country and , indeed , across the west . we now see jewish product in shop attack . we have see jewish school in Canada shoot at , not on one occasion but on two occasion . we have see jewish business torch in other part of the west and , of course , we have have marche on our own street where people have call for the death of Jews . it be the same message but in a different era . it be not the brownshirt of the Nazis on our street or the street of Europe , parade through scream and shout that society need to be cleanse of Jews . they have be replace , I be afraid to say , by hard - left activist and associate useful idiot — " useful idiot " be a polite way of describe they — call for a socialist intifada . they be join by progressive , LGBT group and feminist , who would not last a second in Hamas - control Gaza . the cry of , " the Jews be our misfortune " have be replace on our street by call for jihad , call for an intifada and demand for muslim army to rise up and fight Israel . it be no long nazi cross international border to murder and round up Jews ; it be islamist extremist in Hamas and the palestinian Islamic Jihad and , of course , in Hezbollah if it have its way . those group be as clear in their intention to commit a genocide against the jewish people as Adolf Hitler be in his rambling . that be not to say that we do not still have a problem with far - right antisemitism and racism — of course we do — but it have now be join by those sinister group and alliance of islamist extremist and hard - left activist . what be the response to the atrocity on 7 October by some of those people ? it be not to come out in sympathy after the event of that pogrom ; it be to stand outside the israeli embassy within hour demand boycott of the state of Israel . as I have call out before , I be afraid that even in this place some people have spend a lot of time on their foot criticise the response to the atrocity of 7 October and not a lot of time condemn those action . we have see that in the medium and civil society . football pundit and actor who have never utter a word about Yemen or the 85 , 000 child kill there , or about Sudan and the million of people displace , find time to add their voice and offer we commentary on Israel , sometimes promote ancient blood libel . we have even have member of this place tweet about an attack on a hospital that never take place . a blood libel ; jewish bloodlust — that be what that feed into . some of they never apologise for that , of course . yesterday , we even have somebody accuse the Prime Minister of have blood on his hand . who have blood on their hand for 7 October ? it be Hamas , and the thousand of civilian who follow those fighter into Kibbutz Kfar Aza , Kibbutz be ' eri and other community and step over the body of murder Jews to loot and pillage their home . that be who have blood on their hand . some people in this place would do well to remember that . I have be attack for dare to call people out for give a free pass . I will continue to do that — the bile and hate for I that come up as a result do not bother I , include from people target my post on Holocaust Memorial Day with word such as " zionist scum " . I be a proud Zionist . I have never be prouder to be a Jew or a Zionist . People attack my Facebook page and tell I about the " zionist rat hostage " and that " nobody care about the Jews " — all because I dare to say freely , as I think I have a right to do in this Chamber , that I think some people be not contextualise the response of Israel with the event of 7 October and be give a free pass to terrorist . I will go on do that , because I will not be silence by those who seek to bully I . and from member of the community who would otherwise be scream and shout about the gender - base violence that take place on 7 October ? not a peep . not a word . why not ? be it just the pressure of people ' s inboxe ? be it something deep and more sinister ? I do not know , but I find it hard to understand how that be not call out . why be that gender - base violence not acknowledge ? why do we not have young people on the street of this country march against what happen to those young jewish woman on 7 October ? the most brutal rape , breast slice off , people shoot and then rape — necrophilia — and under - age girl subject to the most appalling abuse . look at our street . what do we have ? Nazi and Soviet - era propaganda marching down our street , and it be not be tackle . the police stand by as people call for jihad . they say that it be about context . the anti - zionist stuff on our street be directly out of the soviet propaganda playbook , which itself draw heavily from nazi propaganda . look at what be happen in our school . just a couple of week ago , I mention at Prime Minister ' s question the letter be produce by pupil in our school that include such phrase as , " I do not believe all Jews be bad " , and a phrase challenge a Member of Parliament on why they believe the western medium narrative that Hamas be a terrorist organisation . where be that come from ? it be come not from the school but from within community in this country . in jewish area in this country , we have flag put up illegally that will not be bring down . I , like many hon . member , have watch the 47 - minute video of the slaughter of people on 7 October , and the same flag be proudly display on the breast and lapel of Hamas fighter . that flag be not be remove in jewish area because people be scared . council be scared to remove they and can not guarantee the safety of people who take they down . imagine if we have swastika up . how long would they last ? I be not compare the two flag — of course not — but in a jewish area where concern have be raise about these trigger incident , something that would be so trigger in a different way would be deal with very quickly . we have see that across the west . what do I want from my government ? what do I want from this country ? I want it to stand up for the value that I think it stand for . I want the right to have a different view without be subject to threat of violence . I know that many member of Parliament who have a different view on this have have their office and inboxe target , and have be threaten . those be not the value of Britain . the value of Britain be that we allow and respect people ' s right to have a different view . that be what I want my government to protect . I want to feel safe on the street . I want jewish people in this country to feel safe come into central London on a weekend , which they do not at the present time . I want our democratic value to be defend . I want to live in a country in which child be not brainwash with hate — be it hate against Jews , hate against member of the muslim community , or any other hate . I want a Government and institution that stand up and say , " that be not acceptable and we will do something about it " — not just stand up and say , " we all condemn it , " but actually do something about it . I leave Parliament this year . I have never feel more ashamed or sad about the state of some of our institution , about our democracy and about people ' s right to express their view freely without fear of be subject to violence or threat of violence . that be what be currently happen on our street — it have happen on other issue as well — and it be dangerous . in the time that I have , I want to refer to two holocaust survivor I meet this week . one be Eve Kugler , who speak at the Foreign Office event this week . she give we example , which be all too familiar today , of grow up in Germany and of experience Kristallnacht . her father be take off to Buchenwald but , fortunately , the whole family be eventually able to escape . so much of her story and testimony ring true today with regard to boycotts , the smashing of jewish business and all the rest . I also want to mention briefly John Hajdu , another survivor I meet this week . he be bear into a jewish family in Budapest , Hungary , in 1937 . he share with I his experience of be hide in a cupboard by a non - jewish neighbour . again , that ring true with 7 October , when jewish child on those kibbutzim be hide in cupboard — it do not save some of they , of course . after hiding , John be eventually force to live in the ghetto . those who be not take to concentration camp be force into about 290 building , where at least 20 people live in each overcrowded flat . he describe the situation there as pretty grim , as member would imagine ; his experience be horrific , but fortunately during the liberation of Budapest , he be free , minute before the ghetto be about to be blow up as I recount those two story , they make I think that John and Eve at least have one fortunate thing that some of the people who be affect by 7 October do not have : they live to tell their story . right now in Gaza , there be jewish people who do not have a voice — who can not tell their story . those be the 136 hostage who remain , and in the brief time I have , I would like to name just a few of they . I would like to name all of they , but I appreciate that that be not go to be possible today . I think particularly of Liri Albag , Karina Ariev and Noa Argamani — who , as member will remember , be the young girl on the motorbike , see plead to her boyfriend as she be whisk away into Gaza . her mother be die and want her daughter home , but Hamas refuse to release she . I think of Romi Gonen , Carmel Gat , Inbar Haiman , Judi Weinstein , Arbel Yehud , Maya Goren and Doron Steinbrecher . I think of Daniela Gilboa , 19 year old , Naama Levy , 19 year old , and Agam Berger , 19 year old — all woman hold currently by Hamas . I think of the Bibas family , the ginger - haired family ; member might remember the little baby who turn a year old in captivity , his parent , and of course his brother Ariel . I think of Omer Shem Tov , the 21 - year - old Israeli at the Nova music festival . I meet his mother in early November : she be desperate for news about her son and utterly distraught . of course , he have no voice today in this place , and neither do so many other . I think of Amiram Cooper , 85 year old ; Oded Lifshitz , 83 ; Gadi Moses , 79 ; and Shlomo Mantzur , 85 — people who be not too different from my parent ' age . they should be at home with their family , enjoy the peaceful life of their retirement and their dotage . of course , it be not just Israelis who be hold : Bipin Joshi be a nepalese citizen , and Avera Mangisto be a Tanzanian . there be so many other name I wish I could mention — Shlomi Ziv , Tsachi Idan , Matan Zangauker , Andrey Kozlov , Ohad Ben Ami , Sahar Baruch , Uriel Baruch , Ziv Berman , Gali Berman , Rom Braslavski — but of course , I can not name they all today . as I end my contribution , those be the people I will be think about : the Jews who do not have a voice , who again be be hold as Jews be hold 80 or 90 year ago , in dark tunnel , in cupboard and in cage , as we have hear . how be this happen again ? it be now 2024 , and here we be again : Jew hate , which never really go away , be manifest itself for all to see in all of its gory , disgusting detail . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . I thank the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure today ' s debate and allow we to talk about something that have always be important in this House — Holocaust Memorial Day have always be the day on which we remember and recommit ourselves to ensure that the holocaust do not happen again — but this year , it be particularly important that we be aware of it . two thing have happen to I personally since the last time I speak in one of these debate . like my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland , I be of that generation for whom the holocaust be always history . we be tell about it by our parent who have be child during the war and have hear about it . we have no personal experience of it , but information and knowledge about it be everywhere . it be in comic_strip , in the film that we see and the book that we read , everything from " the Diary of a Young Girl " by Anne Frank to " Schindler ' s List " . we be aware of it , but we do not actually believe that it would or could ever happen again , because we would not let it happen again — it would never have happen in this country anyway , because we would not let it happen . however , since 7 October , I have become increasingly worried that we in this country be just a fraction complacent about the danger that anything like the holocaust , Darfur or Cambodia could happen here . just over a year ago , I go to see " good " with David Tennant in the west end . it be an absolutely wonderful play : it be about a good , liberally minded academic whose good friend be jewish and who live in pre - war Germany . he become complacent about the Nazis and what they be do , he gradually become seduce and involve , and it have a cataclysmic ending . the other thing that happen be hear the first report of what be happen in Israel on 7 October . I be in a taxi on my way to the airport to fly out to a friend ' s wedding in Spain , and I remember think , " oh my God , what ' s happen ? this be horrific . " I have no idea of what be to follow . a few week ago , I be speak to a handful of student at the University of Glasgow , and we be talk about various issue on campus . they tell I that they have be to a debate about an international chain of coffee shop that happen to have an outlet just off campus . it be all very civilised — a chat and a strong debate — and then one of the student , who be jewish , tell I that one of the other student have say , " but it ' s only Jews that go there anyway . " I be utterly horrified that a comment like that could be make in a meeting of young people in this country . that be not the only example . I visit the synagogue in Edinburgh recently , where I hear the concern of ordinary people about what they be experience every day . the jewish student ' association at Edinburgh University be one of the large and fast grow in the country , but its member feel completely isolated . jewish student have write to association across the country — to every university — ask for support against the antisemitism that they see creep into their daily life , and only a handful reply . do my hon . friend agree that the answer be for people to engage with the live experience of jewish people and to understand the profound effect that it have on their life ? my constituent Natalie Cumming have write about the experience of her family flee persecution , both in Russia and the horrifying experience of her sister , who survive Auschwitz and whose story she retell in her book . that book be one of the most difficult read of my life and I think that people need to engage with those story and understand , so that they do not repeat that kind of prejudice go forward . my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be about listen to , hear and engage with the experience of holocaust survivor . it be about hear the direct relating of tale , as we do at Mr Speaker ' s ceremony early this week , because survey in America have discover that 20 % of young Americans do not believe that the holocaust actually happen , and something like another 30 % believe that the holocaust be exaggerated — that it be a minor event . we be in a very dangerous position at the moment . antisemitism be creep in everywhere : we hear of it every day , from people who be find that it be become part of their daily experience , and we be not aware of it . we be all good , liberally minded , intelligent people ; how easy it would be for we to get draw in and not realise what be happen around we — to let it happen . by the time we notice , it would be too late . a few year ago , I visit Yad Vashem , the holocaust memorial in Israel , and one of the thing that strike I be that it be build on a hillside . it be dark , scary and depressing . we hear the tale , we see the remnant of people ' s life that be destroy by the holocaust and it have an oppressive feel to it . however , as we move towards the end , we see the light at the end of the tunnel , and we come out to a breathtaking view of Israel . at the moment , I feel that we be truly in such a dark spot , and we have to make sure that we do not get trap and pull far into antisemitism become accept in this country . we have to remember the light be at the end of the tunnel , and strive for that . I absolutely and totally agree with the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , and I be a bit shocked by this , because it have come up on I . as a teenager , I live in a little village in a prosperous agricultural area in the north of the South Island in New Zealand . it be a mecca for european immigrant , who flood into the area , and the school be co - educational and multiracial . there be plenty of schoolboy spat , especially on the rugby field , as member can imagine , but I do not remember any racial aggravation at all . Most of the man of my parent ' generation be involve in the second world war . almost all of they serve overseas from New Zealand , and when they come back they tell story , include some of the horrific one we have hear today . like a typical teenage boy , I get fascinated , and I haunt the village library for appropriate book . inevitably , in read they , I read the book on the Nuremberg trial and associated book , and to say I be morbidly horrified would be one of the big understatement ever . that be probably cap in 1982 when I see , at a full - screen cinema , the film " Sophie ' s Choice " . as a father , that scene of the Gestapo officer walk the wee girl away be the stuff of nightmare , and it would have scar any parent . the United Kingdom medical and dental profession be very multiracial . there be a lot of people from the middle east , but also many jewish people , some of whom I rank not just as colleague , but as friend . many be among the good of the profession , with list of achievement to their name that go across the whole page . Most of they live in north London , and periodically they have make I aware of the progressive rise of what I see as irrational antisemitic abuse , sometimes associate with violent activity . this activity and violence increase in the run - up to the last election , and then seem to dull down a bit . to I , however , the Hamas outrage on 7 October — 12 , 000 woman , man and child rape , torture , murder and behead , and some 240 hostage — light the fire again , as I have see . for many of we , this be the stuff of horror , but it have be submerge in the rise of these attack on jewish people , include the professional jewish people in our community . these people have nothing to do with what Israel do to Hamas and no say in that , and what be happen to they be a complete disgrace , with hint of the early day of the Nazis in Germany . the attack be frightening , and the most vicious , as I have explain to I by a very senior , top - notch dental practitioner , who be an expert on a number of key thing and who be treat child — she have tear in her eye as she be tell I this on Tuesday night — be the attack on social medium . those attack be come on special social medium for the profession , so we would assume that every single person write on it be intelligent and educate , yet the vile abuse on it be ghastly . we be be ask to reflect — and I hope that we do — on whether , as many have say , this could be the thin edge of the wedge . it must not happen again . I grow up in a household where it be common to hear family member discuss world war two . I know about Hitler , the Sudetenland , Neville Chamberlain and Winston Churchill , and I have hear about Barnes Wallis and the Dambusters . to my shame , however , I have to say that I be an adult in full - time employment before I begin to understand the meaning of the holocaust . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for secure today ' s debate and for her personal testimony . I also want to commend the other speech we have hear , particularly the contribution of the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . my education have be assist by a few very specific thing . one be the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust . I will never forget go with a group of sixth - former from a local school to Auschwitz one bitter cold February morning . I do not know who be more distraught by what we encounter , these young sixth - former or I , but it be a total education and it leave an impression on I that I will never forget . I be also extremely grateful to Scott Saunders , the chairman and founder of March of the Living , who have do so much to help inform and educate people , particularly about the event in Poland , but also about what happen in the concentration camp . I be indebted to he for help I to learn that , before the Nazis invade Poland in 1939 , there be 3 . 3 million Jews live in Poland , but by the end of the war , less than 400 , 000 of they have survive . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , include in highlight the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust . mine be one of those family in Poland . there be now very few survivor leave , and I think it be important that we recognise the experience of my father ' s generation , or the baby - boomer generation — I go with he and my own child to Auschwitz last year — but also the work of independent researcher and organisation such as the Wiener Holocaust Library in bring home to we what happen . we have the very last of that living testimony , so we need to encourage all those in the second generation and those research body to keep holocaust education alive . my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be something of a theme today that we must do everything to remember and to preserve that memory so that people do not forget . as I have say , Scott Saunders be one of those who assist I . I also read fairly recently a book about Witold Pilecki . there have be lot of excellent book about the holocaust and about certain aspect of it , but he be the polish resistance fighter who actually volunteer to go into Auschwitz to gather information about what be happen . that be then give to the ally , and we choose not to act on it . we hear early in the debate how we maybe should not always feel so proud of our own record , and I think that be another example of where — with hindsight , admittedly — we should have do well . go back to my hon . friend ' s point , the other thing that have really help I have of course be listen to the testimony of holocaust survivor . they be all amazing people , but two in particular have have an impact on I : Mindu Hornick MBE , who live near Birmingham , who be send to Auschwitz when she be 12 year of age and never see her mother or her brother again ; and Harry Olmer MBE , who be just an incredible man and an inspiration to anyone who meet he . when I hear protest about current event in Gaza , I wonder what we have learn . I deplore the killing and the suffering we be see there . I want a ceasefire and an end to the killing , an endure peace and a two - state solution , with Palestinians and Israelis live side by side in recognised and secure independent state . I want that as much as anyone else . but I struggle when I hear marcher , demonstrator and protester chant " Ceasefire now " in one breath , and " from the river to the sea " in the next . what be they say ? what have they learn , and what be they advocate ? some know well what they be do , but other need to stop and spend a little more time learn the lesson of the past . they need to reflect on how little their behaviour show a desire for peace , and how much it be encourage division and hatred . I also wonder at the genuinely concerned people who contact I about the death and suffering in Gaza but skip over the 7 October attack , and who use with ease term such as " war crime " and " genocide " to condemn Israel and the Israelis , but seem to have overlook an attack on israeli civilian that be base on torture , mutilation , rape , murder and hostage taking . some even tell I that the Hamas attack need to be understand because of Israel ' s previous behaviour . they usually show little knowledge that Israel pull out of Gaza and remove all its settlement there in 2005 , in accordance with the peace accord , and be promise in return a demilitarised Gaza that could become something like a Singapore of the middle east . two year later , Hamas take over Gaza , and it have be a launch pad for attack on Israel ever since . the Nazis take people in . they use excuse and demand . they talk about the suffering of the german people . they blame the Jews . they offer seemingly plausible explanation for their action , and they lie about their intention , while lay plan to exterminate 6 million people . I be , and I always will be , a friend of Israel and the israeli people . I be not a fan of the current Prime Minister , and I totally disagree with he and other who oppose a two - state solution . I believe such view be an obstacle to peace , and that such attitude and behaviour risk give succour to those who oppose the very existence of the jewish state . but I will not accept the blaming of the entirety of the jewish people for thing I dislike , and I will not demand high standard of the world ' s only jewish state than we do of any other nation . we need to remember the holocaust , and the way that seemingly decent people resort to cowardly , wicked and savage behaviour , design to wipe out the jewish people . those who shout for peace and ceasefire but not for peace and reconciliation have not learn those lesson . their shrill cry and disruption of meeting and event organise by those who will not support they be dishonest and irrational , and show how much more we need to strive to learn the lesson of history , and why we can not ever afford to ignore real genocide and the event of the holocaust . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act and Measures : Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Act 2024 Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation ) Act 2024 Church of England ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Measure 2024 Church of England Pensions ( application of Capital Funds ) measure 2024 . Holocaust Memorial Day Debate resume . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , and I thank he for his commitment to the jewish community in Birmingham and to Israel . it be deeply appreciated . I have sometimes think that I struggle to grasp the scale of the holocaust , because every time we hear someone ' s testimony , we think we understand what the holocaust be , yet it be always only a tiny fraction of it . every story in the holocaust be completely unique . differ factor and testimony include the country someone be bear in , where they be make to move when tension start to rise in Europe , where or how they manage to hide , how they be round up , and what happen to their friend and family . then story differ in how people watch their parent be murder , how they care for young love one , how they get by , and how snap decision they make save their life or those of other . the holocaust be the murder of 6 million jewish man , woman and child , but it be so much more than that . the number 6 million be huge , but on its own it do not encompass the true scale of suffering . it be million of people who do not get the opportunity to wake up in the morning in their home and feel safe ; million of people who do not have the privilege of make normal , everyday decision to get married , start a family , go to school , or have a career . it tear humanity apart , and steal the future from 6 million Jews and their future family . the seventh of October be not on the same scale . it be not over the same long period of time , and it be not carry out by the same perpetrator . it be not even on the same continent . but 7 October be the big loss of jewish life in a single day since the holocaust . on Tuesday I meet a delegation of family member of hostage with the Leader of the House . a brave 23 - year - old tell we that she lose 60 friend on 7 October . can anyone imagine lose 60 friend in one day ? sadly , many jewish family know what that feel like . I have really struggle with this , Mr Deputy Speaker . accusation of genocide be throw around too frequently , and I be the last person who would ever wish to draw comparison with the holocaust . as Lord Pickles say early this week , there can be no comparison with the holocaust . we now have the jewish state , and that be design to ensure that history do not repeat itself . it be bear out of the need to do just that . however , it be true that 7 October be the large murder of jewish people since the holocaust , and sadly the comparison do not end there . I visit Israel at the beginning of the year . I have the chance to visit the exhibition that survivor of the Nova festival have create . it be heartbreaking . on table lay shoe , clothing and other item of ordinary festival goer who just go to dance . I could not help but see the table of shoe and be remind of the pile of shoe in Auschwitz . lie next to this table of clothe and shoe be make - up — the kind of make - up I use . in Auschwitz you see personal item that make you wonder what that person might have look like or how they might have live . when I see brand such as L ' or é al , I do not have to think about that . I know exactly how they look and how they might have live . I know exactly what they be do on that fateful day when their life end . I know that they be not any different from I : young woman in their 20 or 30 . they be do what normal young people around the world should do — they be dance . I have hope my visit would help I to understand how the attack happen , and perhaps the true motive . I think it be probably part of the natural human mind and reaction to try to make something so huge and terrifying make more sense . I hear story about family murder in a kibbutz . we visit Kfar Aza . we hear about a mayor who will never stand for re - election , because he bravely try to defend his community , and about the young couple who be go to get engage and how they texte their parent in the last moment of their life before be slaughter . I hear about a teacher set on fire in her house I watch 47 minute of this footage . until then , some of the most disturbing image I have ever see be of the holocaust and image of body strew across Bergen - Belsen upon the liberation , but I have never know what a body look like after be torture , shoot in the head , or burn until the only thing leave be their tooth . I have see footage of two young boy witness the brutal death of their father . I wonder how they survive . why do the terrorist so calmly help themselves to a drink from their fridge while they scream ? why be they not take as hostage ? why be other child take hostage ? why be other child and baby murder without a chance ? the event on 7 October start with rocket , follow by a massacre at a music festival . they slaughter people one by one , set car alight , rape woman and girl and throw grenade into bomb shelter . it do not end there . they go hunt for soldier in military basis , rape more woman , murder more people and take more hostage . they go house to house , have already identify who live where . Hamas enjoy every second of it , even boast in call to parent that they have kill at least 10 Jews . no two story from 7 October be the same . I feel completely overwhelmed try to grasp the scale of it , and the scale of the fear . if I be confused now , how must they have feel on that day and every day since ? I never believe I would use today as an opportunity to talk about something other than the holocaust . I firmly believe that be what today be for ; there be 364 other day in the year to talk about everything else , but I also know what holocaust survivor today be think , and I can only begin to imagine how they be feel . they have dedicate their life to tell their story , much like the survivor of 7 October be now do . they be furious that 7 October happen . it be never mean to happen again . every year we stand here and say " never again . " we rightly label those who seek to distort or deny the holocaust ever happen as antisemite . they have the evidence , and plenty of it , but to they fact do not matter , because they believe they have a deep understanding , bear of their hatred for Jews . holocaust denial be antisemitic , so what about those thousand who do not believe that 7 October happen ? they do not believe woman be rape . they argue about how many baby ' head be cut off , or if they be at all . some , who have kindly write to I , tell I that 7 October , if it happen at all , be actually carry out by Israel . recount how I have witness 47 minute of death and destruction make no difference to their view . one theory within holocaust denial be that the holocaust be carry out by European Jews . some believe that Nazis and Zionists work together in partnership and that , as a result of have scamme the world , the state of Israel be bear . that theory feature in a book call " the other side : the Secret Relationship between Nazism and Zionism " , write by President Mahmoud Abbas in 1984 . the same theory , but set in 2023 , be now gain traction on social medium , particularly among young people . they believe that 7 October be carry out by Israel to legitimise military action against Hamas , or that Israel have be fund Hamas , or that Israel be exaggerate claim of the death and destruction at the hand of Hamas . what be this theory at its core ? you tell I . I will not even ask that we say " never again " one final time in this place before we make it a reality . instead , people should understand what have happen to the jewish people in October last year and since . we have the large increase in antisemitic incident on record , in response to the large murder of jewish people since the holocaust . the Chief Rabbi , Sir Ephraim Mirvis , last week make an important intervention . he say that claim Israel be carry out a genocide " be a moral inversion , which undermine the memory of the bad crime in human history . " he say : " it be a term deploy not only to eradicate any notion that Israel have a responsibility to protect its citizen , but also to tear open the still gape wound of the Holocaust , know that it will inflict more pain than any other accusation " . I will finish by quote holocaust survivor Manfred Goldberg , who selflessly have spend so many year educate young people here in the UK with his testimony . he say : " the majority of people in this country be not Jew hater , but they be often our silent supporter . and all that it take for evil to flourish be for good man to stay silent . " on this Holocaust Memorial Day — the day we remember the 6 million jewish man , woman and child murder by Nazis — let we also think carefully about the current rise in antisemitism and what we , as individual , be go to do about it . if 7 October be a fresh warning to the world about where antisemitism can lead , let we remember that it be against that backdrop that we be see record increase in antisemitism . none of we can afford to stay silent . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , who give such testimony of what have happen . I thank the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for open the debate in her customary fashion , tell we the story of her relative and what they suffer , and remind we that we should not be comfortable about what happen in the United Kingdom when jewish survivor arrive . indeed , it be even more important today that we recognise the atrocity that be direct towards the jewish community before the second world war , and that continue today . I declare my interest as co - chairman of the all - party Britain - Israel parliamentary group and the all - party parliamentary group on holocaust memorial , which we hope will be erect alongside this place . some 79 year on from the end of the holocaust , we still have people persecute and attack people base solely on their religion . it be unacceptable , and I be proud that the Government be committed and steadfast in their support for Israel and the wide jewish diaspora . the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be " fragility of freedom . " that be particularly fitting , give the unstable position we find ourselves in today all over the globe . although there will always be mild tension between community , we have to remember that there be a war rage in Europe , a terror war rage in Israel and Gaza , attack in the Red sea , the Sudan war and grow concern on the asian continent . I have never feel more grateful to live in this country and to work in the heart of a thriving , free and fair democracy . we often take for grant the privileged position of be able to get up in the morning , work in a career of our choosing , and be confident that we be be represent by elect individual look to represent our view . we do not fear for our life every moment of the day , and we be not on constant alert for potential rocket . sadly , that can not be say for the rest of the world ' s population , or even the jewish population in this country , as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) refer to . each year the remarkable survivor of the holocaust grow old , and sadly year by year their number decrease . it be therefore vital that we make a continue , conscious effort to learn their story and the true history of the holocaust , so that we not only let they live on , but educate each other to ensure that we never allow the same atrocity to occur . I have have the privilege of visit many of the holocaust site across Europe and in Israel over my year in Parliament . each time , I find the most remarkably strike thing to be that despite the abominable and unimaginable condition that jewish prisoner have to live through , somehow they maintain hope that liberation would occur . Hope be one of the strong , most determined and powerful attribute a person can possess . many interview with liberated prisoner from the Nazi concentration camp describe their fellow inmate lose hope and thus sadly pass quickly thereafter . without hope , they lose purpose and die . I remember from a book I read that there be a rumour around one of the camp that they would be release on a specific date in 1942 . the prisoner hold on to that bit of hope for several year , until , several day before the allege release date , they realise it be a malicious lie from the Nazis . a prisoner recount how , almost instantaneously , many of those dishearten people die . for they , their hope be over and they could no long hang on . last week , the temperature around London plummet . when I leave home , my car thermometer be regularly read minus 1 ° or even low . I be lucky to be wrap up in my hat , scarf and coat , but I could still feel the bitter cold . that put into perspective how harsh the condition be for the people in the camp , where temperature frequently reach minus 10 ° and below , and blanket of snow cover the camp . imagine that with minimal clothing , bare foot and body of skin and bone — it must have be unbearable . with people then physically and psychologically torture on a daily basis , it astound I how they never give up and remain hopeful that one day they would be free . I have an overwhelming amount of respect for the survivor of the holocaust , who so importantly and bravely share and recount their story over and over for the benefit of other . to live through those circumstance and then be brave enough to share they continuously with other be a phenomenal feat , but it be crucial . antisemitism be not new , and it do not originate with Hitler . throughout Europe , jewish people have be subject to antisemitism since the middle age . the hatred escalate significantly after the great war , when the reparation place on Germany and its ally be extreme . we have the Wall Street crash , follow by the depression , lead in turn to rampant inflation in Germany and the collapse of the Weimar republic . last year , I relate some of the challenge face between the war in this country , particularly on the growth of antisemitism , but we should remember that the same thing happen in the United States , grow from the traditional hostility of Christianity towards Judaism . Jews have be target since the middle age . America be rife with antisemitism from the early colonial day . however , as Jews represent only a small part of american society , it remain dormant . antisemitism flourish in the 1880 with the arrival of 2 million jewish immigrant flee eastern Europe , particularly from part of the russian empire , where persecution be frequent . towards the end of the 19th century , condition for Jews worsen with the passage of ever more restrictive legislation and recur government - initiate violent attack against jewish community , commonly know as pogrom . consequently , Jews begin flee in great number to the United States . many Americans , who originate traditionally from north - west Europe or Scandinavia , grow increasingly anxious about the arrival of mass immigrant from southern and eastern Europe , whom they consider to belong to inferior race , and they frequently question their religious belief . we rarely talk about the antisemitic movement in America — more often than not , we concentrate wholly on Nazi Germany — but it be a grave situation across Europe , and also specifically in the States . antisemitism become ever more common in almost every aspect of american culture . what I struggle with be this : what be it that people hate about Jews ? be it about religion ? what be it that have come across the age ? I just do not get it . I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for that intervention . it be hard to understand blind prejudice , but that be what it be . People be possibly fearful of the success of those who strive to do well for themselves , their child and their child ' s child . that be the only reason I can think of : that people be jealous of what jewish people have be able to do , solely through their own effort . I turn back to what happen in the United States . newspaper and magazine be commonly print antisemitic attack . there be racist cartoon . Antisemites represent high position in the federal Government . there be jewish exclusion from social club and discrimination in employment opportunity . many town adopt zone regulation to prevent the sale of land and house to Jews . from 1922 , follow the example set by the lead University of Harvard , many prominent educational institution impose strict quota on the number of Jews they allow to study . throughout the 1920 , renowned car producer Henry Ford publish a weekly newspaper call the Dearborn Independent , which attract an audience of over 700 , 000 people . he launch a vicious and persistent campaign against " the International Jew " . he blame the jewish community for all that be wrong with society , from threaten the capitalist system to undermine the moral value of the nation . notably , he even blame they for the great war . many mile across the globe , that narrative be gain traction in Germany with the rapid rise of the Nazi party under Adolf Hitler . Hitler , of course , be a prominent member of the German Workers ' party follow the establishment of the Weimar republic , and often a firm favourite in the party for his engaging and passionate speech . throughout the 1920 , Hitler would ferociously campaign across Germany , promote his party ' s value of anti - communism , antisemitism and ultra - nationalism , appeal to both the left and right of the political spectrum and gain considerable momentum as a result . the political landscape in Germany take a sharp turn follow the Wall Street crash in 1929 . the economy slam to a halt , and the USA loan that be help repay the great war reparation soon dry up . the Nazis use that polarise landscape to exploit the crisis and loudly condemn the rule Government . slowly but surely , the Nazi party be gain more and more support . in 1932 , Hitler run for the presidency but face defeat to the incumbent Paul von Hindenburg . the Nazi party become the large party in the Reichstag , but it be still short of an absolute majority . despite initial hesitation from Hindenburg , Hitler be appoint Chancellor in 1933 . although not yet a dictator , that be a pivotal moment for Hitler and his party . soon after , the Reichstag be set on fire . Hitler be quick to hold the communist accountable for such action and persuade Hindenburg to pass the Reichstag Fire Decree , which severely curtail all liberty and right of german citizen . Hitler begin to use that to eliminate political opponent and then all those who oppose he . with the groundwork for a dictatorship firmly in place , in 1934 , follow the death of President von Hindenburg , Hitler merge the chancellery with the presidency and become F ü hrer , the sole leader of Germany . the Nazi persecution of the jewish community continue : subtly at first , then more and more discriminative , until in 1938 it take an exponential and unignorable turn . the night of Kristallnacht be a significant moment in the persecution of Jews in Germany . until that point , although still despicable , the repressive policy have be largely non - violent . however , on the night of Kristallnacht , the Nazis torch synagogue , vandalise jewish home , school and business , and murder over 100 Jews . in the aftermath , some 30 , 000 jewish man be arrest and send to the concentration camp . after Kristallnacht , the condition for german Jews grow increasingly and drastically bad . as we know , by the end of the holocaust , some 6 million Jews have lose their life — a truly shocking figure . it sadden I that , almost 80 year later , the jewish community be again be unjustly marginalise . the conflict in Gaza follow the horrific terror attack on Israel by the Hamas terror group on 7 October be a terrifying example of religion - base hatred still occur today . the repercussion include a huge surge in antisemitic hate in the United Kingdom . it be truly appal that in this country today schoolchildren have to hide their uniform on the bus to protect themselves just because they show they to be jewish . my constituency of Harrow East boast a large number of jewish community . the cultural , economic and diverse contribution that they bring be invaluable , and we should celebrate , not condemn , what they have bring to our society . it be at time like this in this country that we need to come together as one to fight hatred , not ignite further cultural war . Israel be a small country , and it be highly likely that jewish people in the UK will have family , friend or connection who be suffer from the deadly attack that Hamas be inflict on the state of Israel every single day . I urge hon . member to reach out to friend or local people and offer their thought , prayer and support at this undoubtedly difficult time . we must always remember the great struggle of the jewish community , and learn from the holocaust to ensure that never again will such grave action take place . we must do so for the sake of not just our generation but future one to come , and out of respect for all those who sadly lose their life during the holocaust . I will end with an important point from Zigi Shipper : " do not hate " . I feel humble and privileged to take part in this solemn debate . this year , as in past year , it be an opportunity to show the House of Commons at its good . it be an honour to follow the powerful intervention by the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) and other . every year in prepare for Holocaust Memorial Day , I struggle all over again to comprehend how a well - educate , highly cultured and seemingly civilised society in Germany could turn on its jewish citizen with such cold - hearted barbarism . those jewish community have be part of central and eastern Europe for century , and be so dehumanise by hate - fill nazi propaganda that most people just stand by when their jewish neighbour be herd in ghetto and then on to truck and train bind for the death camp . Holocaust Memorial Day be an opportunity to remember a series of genocidal crime , include the holodomor perpetrate on the ukrainian people , about which I have speak in past debate . but it be hard to think of anything that can match the sheer scale of the evil perpetrate by the Nazis in carry out murder on an industrial scale , brutally cut short the life of six million jewish man , woman and child , and million of other just because they be gay , Roma , Sinti , disabled or because they be brave enough to resist the Nazis . we need to remember the hero who step up and save people , sometimes put their own life at risk . there be hero here who organise the Kindertransport and save many life . we also need to reflect on this country ' s approach to its mandate in Palestine and its decision to seek to reduce jewish migration there in the 1930 , just when so many be try to flee attack in Europe . it be possible that many more could have escape the Nazis if the british mandate authority have take a different approach . even after the savagery of the holocaust be fully reveal , british resistance to jewish migration to the Holy Land continue . those jewish people try to make a new life for themselves in the jewish state that have be promise be turn away and leave in displace person camp . some be even send back to Germany , from where they have come . as everyone have say , it be crucial that we remember the victim of the holocaust at a time when antisemitism be rise again in a way that be utterly unacceptable in any civilised society . the come day be an opportunity once again to warn young generation of the appalling consequence of antisemitism and where it can lead . I would recommend that anyone wish to understand what happen visit Yad Vashem in Jerusalem . it be the only museum that have reduce I to tear . one of the most powerful exhibit be the display of shoe take from holocaust victim at the concentration camp . these personal possession — suitcase , glass and shoe — provide one of the define image of holocaust remembrance . like my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , I feel a palpable sense of shock a few week ago when I see another collection of shoe and belonging forever lose to the jewish people who own they . I see that in an exhibition in Tel Aviv on the Hamas terror attack on the Nova music festival . the item have be retrieve from the Nova site and provide a truly chilling and harrowing reminder of the Yad Vashem display . I see the Nova exhibition as a part of a trip to Israel declare in my Register of Members ' Financial Interests . during that visit , I , too , see the chilling 47 - minute film of footage from the 7 October attack . I do not want to see the film , but I feel I ought to . the horror of that footage stay with I in my nightmare , and I mean that literally — it haunt my sleeping hour . once you see it , you can not ever unsee it . I do not want to dwell on the horror that the film contain , but I be strike by the brief clip show of young people hide in portaloo or seemingly in a rubbish skip at the festival . those scene be painfully reminiscent of the holocaust and of scene portray in film such as " Schindler ' s List " of child desperately try to find any hiding place to escape the liquidation of the ghetto and deportation . it be a horror to see those scene replay just over 100 day ago . we should be in no doubt in this House of the genocidal intention of Hamas towards Israel and all jewish people — intention in their found charter , and which they have reiterate many time since the 7 October atrocity . I want to conclude with a reflection on the recent brave article by Chief Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis , respond to those who accuse Israel of genocide . we should heed his word that misappropriation of the word " genocide " be an affront to the victim of the unspeakable crime that we remember today . as he say , its use in this context be the ultimate demonisation of the jewish state . it be a moral inversion that undermine the memory of the bad crime in human history . as we say , " never again " , on Holocaust Memorial Day , and we renew our commitment to combat antisemitism and racism , let we remember the November march in London , where hundred of thousand turn out to support Israel and the jewish community , many with placard tell we , " never again be now " . our vigilance against anti - jewish hatred must never cease , wherever and however it manifest itself . it be 22 year since I attend my first Holocaust Memorial Day event in Hendon . I would have think that after all these year there be nothing leave to say , but today ' s contribution show that there be ever more to say , which in many way be a great disappointment . the first event be hold in a marquee in Hendon park . I welcome the idea of Holocaust Memorial Day , but I do question the sustainability of such an event and whether it would continue in the long term . in 2002 , antisemitism be not the issue that it be today , and certainly not as it be lead up to and include the holocaust perpetrate by the Nazis . the first event be well attend by many people . many be jewish , which be not surprising , because many of my constituent be of the jewish faith . holocaust survivor also attend , such as my good friend Renee Salt , and I be as pleased to see she then as I be each year . as my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) say , over the year I have welcome attend the event — I never say that I be pleased to attend , because that be not appropriate . I value attend it . over the year , Barnet Council have acknowledge more than the shoah — the name that jewish people use to describe the holocaust perpetrate by the Nazis . past speaker have include not just survivor of the Nazis and their relative — some of they even elect councillor in Barnet — but people who survive the bosnian massacre , the rwandan genocide and the purge in Cambodia . for many year , I have be interested in the holocaust . I be interested in how it happen , how it come about , why no one speak out against it , why ordinary decent middle class Germans either do not know about it or refuse to accept that it happen , and what consequence remain today . I remember read Art Spiegelman ' s " Maus " book when I be a teenager . he bring the horror of the holocaust to I , from the third generation since the war , in the late 1980 . it should be remember , as the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) remind we , that it be just 40 year since the end of the second world war at that time . for people who have experience the 1939 - 1945 war , such perception of event would be the same as the one I have of the Falklands conflict in 1982 . spiegelman ' s book end with his father ' s emigration to America , so it have be leave to other author , such as Leon Uris in his book " Exodus " , to describe what really happen to most displace jewish people after the war . it have be acknowledge and be not dispute that the UK refuse to take refugee from jewish community after the second world war . many other country in Europe also refuse . some population take part in the murder of Jews alongside the Nazis . other have simply misappropriate jewish land and property , and be not give it back . jewish people have nowhere to go and it be vital that a homeland be provide for the survivor . Israel be the historic homeland of the jewish people and it be the right course of action to re - establish the country on 14 May 1948 . almost half of all jewish survivor of the holocaust , 49 % , today live in Israel . about 18 % live in north America and about 18 % in western Europe . approximately 1 , 200 survivor live in Britain , many of they in the Hendon constituency . as Lord Blencathra tell the Holocaust Memorial Bill Committee this week , the way different generation discover our history have change . many now read information from the internet . we all know that not everything that appear online be entirely accurate . but this have an impact on what people learn and their perception of past and current conflict . for many people around the country , the holocaust be something they know happen but it do not impact they . but that be not the experience of many people in my constituency . yesterday , I speak to a neighbour of mine , who tell I about her daughter ' s university experience at University College London . as she say , they be a liberal jewish family who have a jewish faith but be not orthodox . you would not know by look at they that they be jewish . unless my constituent ' s daughter tell you she be jewish , it would not be apparent . but what her daughter have hear in lecture and in the university itself be thing she refuse to leave unchallenged . I have know she for many year and she be not a belligerent person , but student have tell she that there be no Arabs in Israel , all Jews be wealthy and Jews control the world — all the usual trope that we be now hear more and more . she have push back but have be shun by the other pupil , who refuse to sit next to she in lecture . another student complain that there be an antisemitism tsar at UCL . my constituent ' s daughter say that it be not a competition or even a privilege to have such a tsar , but that explanation be reject and a demand be subsequently make for an anti - Islamophobia tsar , for no other reason than there be an antisemitism tsar . young people in my constituency be now fearful of attend university and it be obvious why . jewish student be hold responsible for the action of the israeli Government , and the same be now steadily creep into our school . there be a clear link between these attitude and the terrorist attack in Israel on 7 October . those attack be no different from what the Nazis be do . their intention be to kill as many Jews as possible and it remain a real concern to many of my constituent . just like the holocaust denier , there be denier of what happen in Israel on 7 October . I will struggle a bit at this point , Mr Deputy Speaker . I can not turn around and look at my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . we do visit Israel a few week after the attack and we do see thing that I certainly never expect to see . and I do warn my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet not to watch the 47 - minute video . we see not only that video , but another video . when we be at the Shura base , the colonel , I believe it be , in charge open the mortuary . just like my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) , what I remember be the smell . it be the smell not only of blood and death , which I have smell before , but formaldehyde , some kind of chemical use to preserve the body . many of the body , approximately 200 , be leave there because they could not be identify . the reason they could not be identify be that some be headless , some be just a head , some be limb and some be body fuse together by fire . what really upset I and my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole be when the colonel whip his phone from his pocket and show we a video . I will not even mention what be on it . I do not talk to my staff or my family about what be there , but it be something that be not in the 47 - minute video and it be not something that can be forget . the event of 7 October be also quite personal due to the fact that Nathanel Young be one of the first to be kill . he be a student in my area at Beit Shvidler School . I recently visit the school and be upset when I see his photo on the wall . the photo show he with I and Lord Cameron at the 2013 Chanukah event at No . 10 — he be part of the choir . I remember he distinctly because of his exuberance and vitality . in the week since 7 October , I have receive several email from constituent . this have be touch on by hon . member today and it be important to outline some of what people have say to I . one email say : " I be write to you today as a concerned member of your constituency and , more importantly , as a British Jew who be increasingly fearful for the safety of my family , friend , and community . recent event have compel I to express my deep concern about the rise of antisemitic incident and the apparent inadequacy of the response from law enforcement . follow the advice from the police on October 7th , instruct our son to conceal their jewish symbol while travel to school , my family and I be already grapple with a heighten sense of vulnerability . as a community , we have observe instance where the police seem to turn a blind eye to chant and unpleasant behaviour during weekly marche , foster an environment where antisemitic sentiment be allow to flourish unchecked . recent event have leave I question the assurance we once hold that if these protest be to turn violent , the police would intervene decisively . " she go on to mention the alleged assault on a group of Israelis in Leicester Square on 20 January . she conclude by say that she feel that she can not allow her son " to use any hebrew or jewish - sound word when travel , out of fear that he may become a target for senseless violence . it be deeply dishearten to realize that , in London 2024 , jewish people feel compel to hide their identity and censor their innocent language for their own safety . " antisemitism be not restrict to my constituent . I have be subject to two incident in recent week , the second of which remain under consideration for prosecution , so I can not say any more . in conclusion , I will be attend Holocaust Memorial Day this year in Hendon . I will value it as much as ever . there will be a day when the Shoah will be an ancient historical tragedy , but unfortunately that will not be for many more year yet . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for grant the time for this debate . I be very happy to be a co - sponsor of it . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for the way in which she open the debate . it be very important that we have this debate every year in the Chamber and this year it be all the more pressing . like other , I would like to put on record my thank to the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust for their year - round work , as well as their support at this time of year . it be Burns Night tonight and his famous line : " man ' s inhumanity to man make countless thousand mourn ! " well stand the test of time when we look at the world today , and when we look to the holocaust and the continued impact down the generation . like the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , I be often frustrate by the increase polarisation of politic and view . there be far more shade than black and white , and public discourse be always the well for appreciate that , and try to at least understand the spectrum of view that be different from one ' s own . on this particular issue — perhaps it be the exception that prove the rule — the importance of holocaust remembrance and understand why it matter be something black and white : there be one clear way in which to look at these issue . in an age of increase tension , global flux and the grow influence of those whose very purpose be to foster hatred for other , we need to be ever more clear about the need for " never again " to mean exactly that ; but it will not happen without specific and concerted effort . the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be " fragility of freedom " . to I thing seem that bit more fragile and that bit more strained , and I be strike by hear the same point make early this week by Rabbi Rubin , the Senior Rabbi of Scotland . I often speak in this place about the importance of freedom to follow the religion of one ' s choice or to follow no religion , and across the globe that freedom be increasingly under threat . we be witness eye - water spike in antisemitism and Islamophobia . we need to mean what we say and stand up against that hatred — against the misinformation and disinformation , the trope and the troll , and the plain holocaust denier . the hon . member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) make a good point about the significant challenge in the online space . we also need to be vigilant , and face hard truth . intolerance and hatred be increase , and those who peddle hatred , here and throughout the world , do feel empower . the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) speak powerfully about the huge danger pose by people spread conspiracy , and the effort to erode and deny democracy . we need to remember that genocide do not just suddenly happen in faraway place . they be always the product of the gradual and deliberate " othere " , demeaning , dehumanising and diminishing of people simply because of their identity . as be point out by the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , they be fuel by ordinary people act in extraordinarily awful way , empower by the encouraging and normalising of hatred . that lead to the industrial - scale evil describe by the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) . I be fortunate to attend my local holocaust memorial event at the start of the week , as I do every year . these event have be , without exception , profoundly move , and this year ' s be no different . I be grateful to East Renfrewshire Council and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , especially Kirsty Robson , for put it together so effectively . our young people be at the heart of that event , and I applaud they all for their effort . student from all our local school be there , notably Christopher James and Sarah Bone from St Ninian ' s High School , who speak about their involvement as Holocaust Educational Trust ambassador , and Lexie Davidson from Mearns Castle High School , who have be work with the Anne Frank Trust . Kaela - Kaliza Molina , a young woman whose mother be catch up in the Rwanda genocide , read we a poem that she have write about the experience of her mother and so many other . it be entitle " we all bleed the same " , and you could have hear a pin drop . the point that that young woman make — that point about the fragility of freedom — be illustrate very effectively by individual history . the right hon . member for Barking talk about her own family ' s journey , much of which seem to have be highly dependent on chance : it strike I that it could have be a very different story . we need to remember that we be talk about people and family , not just about the unfathomable number that we think about so often when reflect on the holocaust while neglect the individual who perish . at the event we also hear from Geraldine Shenkin , who speak powerfully about her lovely mum , Marianne Grant , whose story have be capture in material use in scottish school thank to the work of Vision Schools Scotland , as well as in a beautiful book of her mum ' s art which be now on permanent display in Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum . Geraldine be exceptionally brave in tell that story , and I know that in do so she spare we some detail because she be aware of the number of schoolchildren who be in the audience . suffice it to say that her mum endure the most terrifying , inhumane and shocking treatment as she survive Theresienstadt and Auschwitz before her liberation from Bergen - Belsen . Marianne Grant be an artist , and while in Auschwitz she be force to draw for Dr Mengele , know as the Angel of Death , whom she recall walk back and forth in front of her nose in his black uniform as she draw , " like a clock pendulum " . the horror that she experience be beyond our imagining , but of course they would have be unimaginable to she too until her life be turn upside down in that most horrific way . the same can be say of the life of Henry and the late Ingrid Wuga , Kindertransport child who escape and later meet , married and make their home in my constituency . they have change countless life with their work tell our young people about the reality of the Holocaust , and we owe they both a huge debt of gratitude for that . Henry Wuga be about to turn 100 , and I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in send he our very good wish . the importance of that kind of work , share the truth about the Holocaust , be ever great . I meet gather the Voices again this week , and hear more about Martin Anson , whose story be so important . he talk about the grow anti - jewish sentiment in his bavarian home town in the early 1920 , his activity in the anti - nazi movement , stormtrooper assault his family on Kristallnacht , and his imprisonment in Dachau before he manage to emigrate to Scotland just before the outbreak of the war . his son Steven tell I about a trip that he make last year to his father ' s former home , where a stone call a stolperstein have be lay down in the ground — unusually , to record that someone who have live there have survive ; usually the stone record those who have be lose . on that visit , Steven be strike by the warm welcome that he receive from the family who be currently live in the house . it be an incredible story to hear , and the generosity of spirit of the current occupant be , I think , a ray of hope in a very harrowing history . it would not be a Holocaust Memorial Day debate for I without my touching on another ray of hope , offer in the person of Jane Haining , the scottish matron in a Budapest school who refuse to leave her young jewish charge despite know what the danger be , and who pay for that decision with her life . she say : " if these child need I in day of sunshine , how much more do they need I in day of darkness ? " that sentiment be one worth hold to at a time when everything seem a bit more fragile and less certain than the circumstance that we have , perhaps , become comfortably use to . Jane Haining be the only Scot to be name as Righteous among the Nations at Yad Vashem . it will take all of we — all of here , but all of we in our community too — to say that we will not tolerate anti - semitism , we will not accept hatred , and we will not accept people ' s be othered and demean because of their identity . freedom really be fragile , and all of we together be the key to sustain and strengthen it . let we try to heed the terrible lesson of the past . let we try to work hard together to keep alive the voice of those who survive , so that those who come after we can hear their testimony too , and can protect that fragile freedom . it be a great honour to respond to this important debate on behalf of the Opposition . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for introduce it , and the Backbench Business Committee for allow the time . my right hon . Friend tell we about her family ' s personal experience during the war and immediately after it . she speak about the fact that freedom be fragile , and that have certainly be apparent in the debate . she also ask , " when will we ever learn ? " , a question that have be repeat by many member on both side of the House . as we have hear , this Saturday , 27 January , be Holocaust Memorial Day and the 79th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . it be an opportunity for we to come together to remember the 6 million jewish victim murder by the Nazi regime , as well as the million of life lose to genocidal violence in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur . my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) mention the testimony of Daphrosa on the horror of the rwandan genocide . this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day mark the 30th anniversary of the rwandan genocide and the murder of up to 1 million tutsi in just 100 day by violent Hutu extremist . we remember the family , community , culture and tradition lose forever to hatred and persecution , and we pay tribute to the survivor . their life irrevocably alter by devastating violence , we owe they great gratitude for share their testimony and expose the true horror they experience , in order that we can all bear witness . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) say that , as a child , he hear about some of the event of world war two , but that he be an adult when he learn about the atrocity that be commit . he stress the need for we to continue to educate people . recall his return to the site of Auschwitz - Birkenau , holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel say : " it have swallow an entire people … a people with hope and memory . " this week we honour those hope and memory and the rich individual live that lie behind the dreadful statistic that have be reference across the House throughout this debate . we also remember the many other kill by the Nazi regime , include more than a quarter of a million disabled people , up to half a million Roma and Sinti people , and thousand of LGBT people , many of whom have have to fight to be recognise as victim . these crime be the most terrifying consequence of identity - base persecution . today , people around the world , and here in the UK , continue to face deep hostility because of who they be . over the past decade , we have see rise in hate crime of every category . Gypsy , Roma and Traveller community face persistent discrimination . many LGBT + people continue to face hostile environment . and in the month since 7 October , as we have hear today , we have see an unprecedented rise in incident of antisemitism and Islamophobia . this Holocaust Memorial Day , we must all remember our common humanity . we must remember , too , that the prevention of atrocity begin at home , and we must seek to unite our community , to prevent hatred and polarisation , and to warn against the danger pose by insidious hatred . this year ' s " fragility of freedom " theme be a call for we to reject complacency and to pay attention to the process that restrict and remove the freedom of those target for persecution . as soon as the Nazis take power in 1933 , they weaponise every lever of the state to erode the freedom of german Jews , by pass decree and regulation to limit the participation of jewish people in public life . the 1935 Nuremberg law proscribe marriage between Jews and non - Jews and , in so do , rob jewish people of their freedom of religion and self - identification . as Nazi horror spread across Europe , Jews in occupy country be force into ghetto and deport to concentration or extermination camp . this be the ultimate manifestation of violence , which take away their freedom to live , but it do not come from nowhere . that be why this year ' s theme ask we to remember how climate for genocide be create . it be a reminder that freedom can be vulnerable , and that we should not take it for grant . by provide a focal point , Holocaust Memorial Day ensure that we come together to remember and to mourn victim of genocide each and every year . local activity will be take place all over the UK this week , and I pay tribute to the many organiser who be ensure that generation of young people continue to hear these vital message . it be estimate that more than 10 , 000 such local activity take place across the UK around 27 January each year , which be a magnificent achievement . I also pay tribute to the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , which have work hard to embed understanding of the holocaust in our education system . it be thank to the Holocaust Educational Trust that learn about the holocaust have be a compulsory part of the national curriculum for more than 30 year . since 2006 , its " Lessons from Auschwitz " project have allow post - 16 student in school and college to visit Auschwitz - Birkenau . in the face of dangerous holocaust denial and distortion , these lesson be of paramount importance . recognise the essentialness of holocaust education , we have support the Holocaust Memorial Bill from its outset . just like Holocaust Memorial Day , the holocaust memorial and learn centre will provide yet another essential focal point for genocide education and commemoration in the UK . it will preserve the memory of the holocaust , convey the truth about its nature and , crucially , serve as a fitting tribute to the 6 million jewish people murder by the Nazis . I be pleased that today ' s debate have give we the opportunity to come together to reject hatred and to strive for a well future , never forget the life , family and community lose to the most horrifying violence . this be the first time I have attend a Holocaust Memorial Day debate , and I have to say that I be rather glad it be . I must be honest with the House that , if I have have any idea of the raw emotion , I might have dodge it , but I be so glad that I do not . it have be sad and it have be frightening , but every word have be worth hear . I thank the House and all those who have contribute to today ' s debate . it have be a true privilege to be here to hear it . as many right hon . and hon . member have note , the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be the " fragility of freedom " . it be not just about the fragility of freedom in emerge democracy or elsewhere in the world ; it be about the threat and the challenge to all mature western democracy . frankly , we have grow complacent about our right and privilege , and about our freedom to think , speak , write , congregate , worship and pray . too much of it be under attack , whether by social medium , the ease of populism or the search for the simple in a complex world . so much that we hold dear be under pressure , so let we come together , as this debate have show the House can do at its good , to champion and defend all that we cherish and hold dear to our heart . but let we do more . let we not just be armchair or , indeed , green Bench democrats . let we be , as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) suggest , muscular and robust in our stance and in our defence , because in collaborative defence there be courage , there be hope and there be opportunity . the big number of the holocaust make it hard to envisage , as all big number and statistic do , so let we pause for a moment not to think of 6 million as just another statistic . I follow the Auschwitz Memorial Twitter feed , or x feed as we now have to call it , and , virtually every day , it present a picture or picture of man , woman and child . these ordinary folk be starve , take from their home , persecute and incinerate — the true meaning of the word " holocaust " — for their faith . let we recommit to always see these people for what they be , people , fellow human being , and never as just a statistic , whether they be jewish , bosnian , Rwandan or Cambodian . what we must always remember , as many contributor have remind we so powerfully today , be that down the century the jewish people have always be force to look over their shoulder , with pogrom , the holocaust , displacement , " the Protocols of the Elders of Zion " and the Dreyfus case . they be a people always worry that they be only temporarily tolerate , rather than permanently welcome . my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) — I be go to call she my right hon . friend — add a poignancy to her characteristically brave and bold remark and think by remind the House that , sadly , this be the last of these debate that she will take part in as a Member of Parliament . as the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) say , she will be miss but not forget . her have be important word on this issue , particularly during difficult year for she and jewish colleague in her party — thank God that be change — where she stand bravely on difficult and hostile Benches and make her case , as she do today . my job be to reply to the debate and respond to speech , so with the leave of the House I will try to reference a nugget or two from each contribution , because they merit it , as do the seriousness of the issue at hand . I be grateful to the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) for her word , in speak for the opposition , as I be to the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) , who speak for the Scottish National party . I know that the hon . member for Blaydon have give I a little more time than the usual channel may have agree to . my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the Father of the House , speak powerfully about the fragility of democracy . as many member soon go on to do , he point to the importance of education . we do not repeat when we know , and we know only when we be educate . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland speak about his constituency and the story of rescue those flee persecution in Norway . that historical fact be new to I , and the House will be grateful for it . my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) speak , in his characteristically frank but move way , about his experience in Yugoslavia , and I wish to make two point to he . first , he be right to remind the House , and we be right to remind ourselves , that those event take place not in a faraway land of which we know nothing , but on our doorstep , and just in 1993 . secondly , for what it be worth , I wish to say personally to he , because he speak of his shame and the shame of his mother , that he have nothing to be ashamed about . he and his man do their good , and that be all we as a democracy can ever ask . the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) be currently in Westminster Hall for a debate about religious freedom , so there be a link even today . she be not in her place for that reason , but she give we a powerful speech on Rwanda , remind we of the horror of rape and sexual violence , as my hon . friend the Members for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) and for Brigg and Goole and my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) do in relation to the horrific event of 7 October . I sit and listen as a husband and a father of three daughter , and who would not be move to think that those horrible event take place just a few short week ago . a common theme have be smell , a sense that be often not speak about enough . we talk about our memory of what we have see or hear , but smell can be hugely evocative , be it of a time or place in our childhood , a holiday or whatever . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon be a doctor and he will have be use to the smell of medical thing . my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet and my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole also speak about the recent smell of death and rot flesh . the father of a great friend of mine have be part of the medical team that go into Belsen , and until his death he always speak about the smell that be still on his skin . we should remember that always . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) speak of the complacency of the view that , " it ' s all history . " it be not history ; it be happen now . when we think it be history — that either it be not happen or it can not happen again — we have lose the battle , have we not ? what be the holocaust and why should we remember it ? we can remember it for the horror , the statistic , the figure and the scale , but the eternal shame , to use the phrase of my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham , be that it be man ' s inhumanity to man . we should all be ashamed and embarrass by it , because it show , at the darkest and base moment of humankind , precisely what we can do to each other , in the name of doctrine , theology , ideology . it be a terrible thing that we have somewhere deep within our dna . let we resolve to keep it bury . my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) speak powerfully about hatred and prejudice , and he , too , speak of the importance of education . I want especially to mark the speech make by the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) . I hope he will not take it the wrong way when I say that I think that the frank assessment of current event that he give we be , for a Birmingham Member , a brave speech . I be pleased to hear it , the House will be grateful to have hear it , and he should be commend for deliver it in the heartfelt and sincere way that he do . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , in that simple memory of a shoe and a piece of make - up , so reminiscent of the museum where the shoe of those who die be gather up as a reminder , remind we of the simplicity and therefore the futility ; this be ordinary people go about their life in an ordinary way , on an ordinary day , and suddenly , as a result of somebody ' s bigotry and hatred , it be all take away . the lipstick , powder , mascara , the pair of dancing shoe , whatever it might happen to be , will stand as a long last memorial than any statue or plaque that could be erect . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) again pick up on this theme of education , and I pay tribute to all of those — the Holocaust Educational Trust and other — who day in , day out ensure that we never forget . we be right to remind ourselves of the importance of that . People have speak of the important role that our university and school play in ensure free and fair speech , and ensure that all voice can be hear , and that tolerance and toleration be the hallmark of a civilised democracy . they need to step up to the plate and play their part , as do this place , in ensure that those be preserve and protect . the hon . member for Blaydon , who speak for the Opposition , give a heartfelt speech , as do the SNP spokesman , and we commend she for that . how right my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet and my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East be to remind we of the uncomfortable truth , as the right hon . member for Barking do , of our slightly uncomfortable position with regard to the welcoming of jewish child through the Kindertransport but not their parent , and the control that we place on jewish migration and the problem that cause for too many people . I could go on , because this have be a move debate on a mammoth issue . it have be about history — 80 year ago and more recent — but the issue be so fresh and contemporary today that it chill we to the bone . before I conclude , I should apologise to the Hansard scribe . my official will have give they a typed speech but , as usual , I have ignore it , because the speech I hear from colleague this afternoon be from the heart , and I want to respond , on behalf of the Government , in kind . however , wherever , whoever and whenever , how they die , where they die , and who they be , let we unite today and always to mark and reflect on all of those who have lose their life , to both the holocaust and all holocaust . may all of their sacrifice not have be in vain . may all of their memory be a blessing . I will not detain the House , but I echo the word of the Minister and the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) in say that the House be at its good when we can all speak across the Chamber in unity on issue that be a million time more important than anything else we debate in the House through the year . I thank every Member of the House who have participate in the debate for their warm and important speech . I want to reflect on what the hon . member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) say . like she , I go to the exhibition about the Nova festival , which the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet mention . the picture of the shoe lie on the ground , as people be slaughter at the festival , remind we of the Holocaust and what we see in Auschwitz , which I do not think any of we can forget . I never smell the smell in Kfar Aza — I probably go a few week after the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) and for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) — but I feel the misery and horror that people experience there . I agree with all hon . member that the growth of antisemitism on our street today , as with the growth of Islamophobia , should chill we all and make we think about how we do thing . my final word relate to what be say by the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . Jews have maintain hope through the generation — that be probably why we have survive in the way we have . I hope we can leave today ' s debate with a feeling of hope and determination that we will build a society of tolerance , both here and across the world . we should learn that hate will not bring we the peaceful co - existence we all want . freedom be fragile , and we all have to put every effort into secure freedom for everybody , wherever they live , whoever they be and whatever their background or religion . I thank all hon . member who have participate today for the manner in which they have conduct themselves . I be sure that will have be appreciate outside the House , as well as within it . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Holocaust Memorial Day . Milton Keynes Women ' s and Children ' s hospital : New Hospital Programme Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I be hugely grateful to have be grant this Adjournment debate , on a matter that mean so much to I , my constituent in Milton Keynes North and those of my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) . my constituency and the whole of Milton Keynes be grow all the time — it be one of the fast grow city in the UK . More and more folk with family , as well as young couple look to start a family , be move to Milton Keynes . our freshly mint city , which be 57 year old this week , be a wonderful place to build and grow a family . People want to build their family in Milton Keynes because there be opportunity there , include highly skilled job , good school and green neighbourhood for child to grow up in . Milton Keynes be the place to be . however , a grow city bring challenge , particularly for our healthcare infrastructure . More people mean a need for more healthcare capacity , in both the short and the long term . I thank the Government for their effort so far to meet that challenge head - on . for those reason , I be delighted about the investment we have see since I become an MP in 2019 . for example , the community diagnostic centre , back by £ 2 . 3 billion of Government funding , be make a significant impact in reduce the covid - 19 backlog and deliver an extra 6 million vital test , check and scan to date . there be two such diagnostic centre in Milton Keynes , with one up and run at the Whitehouse Health Centre and one come soon in Lloyds Court in central Milton Keynes . the Maple Centre be another important step in the right direction , help to provide same day emergency care , mean patient can get the treatment they need without be admit to hospital . that have reduce pressure on the main emergency department at Milton Keynes University Hospital , ensure that patient be treat in the environment that well meet their healthcare need . in its first year , the centre treat over 20 , 000 patient , so I offer my thank to staff at the centre who work really hard to provide the good quality care for their patient . I also welcome the Government ' s urgent and emergency care plan , alongside an investment of over £ 1 billion to deliver 5 , 000 more hospital bed . that will free up bed for patient need urgent and emergency care , and , ultimately , reduce pressure on hospital . this include a £ 3 million investment in Milton Keynes University Hospital , where we have a new 22 bed ward with extra clinical space . I be also delighted that the Government be fund a new breast cancer screening unit at Milton Keynes University Hospital . Milton Keynes University Hospital serve not just the people of Milton Keynes , but community in the surround area , act as a cornerstone in the region . work must continue to safeguard the healthcare need of future generation . my hon . friend make an important point that the hospital be there for Milton Keynes , but it be also there for the surround area , include town such as Buckingham and Winslow and the village around they . do he agree that the important partnership between the medical centre at the University of Buckingham and the hospital have drive up clinical standard ? when I be first elect in 2010 , standard at Milton Keynes University Hospital be not good . they be now among the good in the country . that should be cherish and it bode well for future investment . I agree wholeheartedly ; in fact , I remember campaign with my hon . friend to get that partnership up and run back in 2015 . it really be a virtuous circle : because it be now a teaching hospital , people want to go there to learn , and standard go up . it be one of the good place to work in the region , with fantastic staff and fantastic management . one of the good measure we have for a healthcare system be its capacity to provide everyone with the specialist care they need . that be why I be very pleased when the construction of a woman and child ' s hospital , which be the subject of the debate , be agree in principle . it be part of the new hospital programme , and get it on to the list of 40 new hospital and keep it there have be quite a journey . with covid , build cost inflation , and concrete rot be find in other hospital , which bump they up the priority list , it have be hard work to keep our hospital on the list . I sincerely thank my hon . friend for his hard work , and Professor Joe Harrison at Milton Keynes University Hospital . on the list we be ! the Treasury have confirm the funding and we be a go . our new hospital will act as the home for paediatric and maternity care in Milton Keynes , while increase surgical capacity . through the new hospital programme , the new hospital and the exist hospital will be able to utilise the late technological development to create smart hospital facility . that mean more up - to - date system and device , lead to great efficiency and well care across the whole hospital estate . another point , which might be overlook , be that move maternity and paediatric care to the new hospital will free up capacity in the exist hospital for other clinical requirement . often , build new hospital be not just about new facility , which be of course important ; it be also about improve exist facility and care . MK University Hospital will be able to move forward with its own expansion plan . in that sense , we can begin to unlock the full potential of our healthcare infrastructure in Milton Keynes . have see the architect ' s impression of the new hospital , I can only be excited . with it , we have a brilliant future ahead of we . it be clear that the hospital will act as a symbol of how far our city have come , but I also feel that it will act as a symbol of the new hospital programme overall , and of the benefit of the Government ' s ambitious levelling - up agenda . of course , have a new hospital focus on woman and child be not just about the additional treatment ; it be about create the right environment for that care to take place — an environment in which woman feel comfortable talk about their health without distress or worry , and child feel that they be care for in their own setting . the integration of maternity and paediatric care be key . have those service all under one roof will make life easy for nurse and doctor , as well as for family . the health of our woman and child be fundamental . we must therefore keep push for the new hospital to be build as soon as possible , to ensure that Milton Keynes can provide the good care for our young family and be the good place possible to respond to the challenge of population growth . with funding have be announce last May , I hope that the fund can be release soon , so that we can get the plan finalise and get on with the construction work . I know that many back in MK be itch to get the green light and get on with the project , so I would welcome any update on the hospital , and where we be on the timeline . deliver the 40 new hospital by 2030 be key to meet our manifesto commitment from 2019 . get this hospital up and run as soon as possible will demonstrate in no uncertain term that the Government be more committed than ever to that target . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) on secure a debate on this important issue . he be a tireless campaigner for well healthcare in Milton Keynes , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes South ( Iain Stewart ) . before I talk about the new hospital , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North for mention the new community diagnostic centre . I be delighted that the Whitehouse health centre be already carry out test , check and scan for his constituent , with another CDC in Lloyds Court shopping centre come very soon . as he lay out , Milton Keynes University Hospital have already see improvement to emergency and cancer care facility . the addition of a dedicated new woman and child ' s centre through the new hospital programme build on that record of investment . both my hon . friend , along with the conservative candidate for Milton Keynes South , Johnny Luk , have speak to I in detail about the huge difference that the investment will make for local people . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North hit the nail on the head in point out the smart hospital design that we have develop as part of the programme , and how it will benefit patient . he be entirely right that it will improve patient care , with feature such as more single room to give new mum the privacy that they deserve , or for family comfort sick child . the design be a major plus for staff work in our NHS too , provide well line of sight to monitor patient from nurse ' station , well it and equipment so that less time be waste on non - clinical task , and a light , bright environment to work in . the hospital will also boost the emphasis of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on woman ' s health and maternity care , and I know that she will follow the hospital ' s progress with keen interest . as my hon . Friend say , Milton Keynes be rapidly expand , as the penny drop and people realise what a fantastic place it be to live , work , and raise child , thank in no small part , I be sure , to his zealous and spirited pursuit of Milton Keynes ' interest in this House . the Government be bear that important fact in mind , as we work very closely with Milton Keynes University Hospital Foundation Trust on its plan for a new woman and child ' s hospital , surgical ward block and imaging centre . in May last year the Government announce a further five hospital as part of our commitment to build 40 new hospital by 2030 . structure that be mostly build use reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — commonly know as RAAC — will be rebuild by 2030 as part of the new hospital programme , along with two hospital that be already include on the list . we will not cut any corner when it come to protect the safety of patient and staff . we remain committed to every scheme announce as part of the new hospital programme . I be pleased to inform my hon . friend that Milton Keynes Community NHS Trust submit its refreshed strategic outline business case to the programme last week , on 19 January . this will now progress through the appropriate assurance process , as set out in the Treasury Green Book , to ensure that the trust ' s plan be align with the national programme approach , be deliverable and provide value for taxpayer ' money . but the intention be very much that these plan will be deliver at pace and with rigour . I be pleased to inform the House that , up to the end of the 2022 - 23 financial year , the scheme receive more than £ 11 million for scheme development funding . in the current financial year , we have release more than £ 600 , 000 extra , to help the trust develop the business case for the new patient imaging centre . a furth £ 120 , 000 will be make available for the development of business case for a multi - storey car park and high voltage supply upgrade . I look forward to receive further business case from the trust . I commit to update my hon . friend as funding be release for that important scheme . all the money that we have release to date have help reach key milestone in deliver the plan for the people of Milton Keynes and the surround area , enable construction team to crack on early with prepare the site ahead of the main construction commence in the second half of the decade . the fund also demonstrate our commitment to deliver a new Milton Keynes hospital by 2030 as part of the new hospital programme . I would like to end by provide a more general update on the ambitious and vital work that we be undertake as part of the new hospital programme . I be very pleased that four hospital be now open to patient : the Northern Centre for Cancer Care ; the Royal Liverpool Hospital ; stage 1 of the Louisa Martindale , also know as the 3Ts hospital — trauma , tertiary and training — in Brighton ; and the Northgate and ferndene hospital in Northumberland . a further hospital , the Salford Royal major trauma centre , be complete and due to open shortly . another 17 hospital be either in construction or in early construction with activity well under way to prepare their site . this include survey and crucial work on non - clinical infrastructure , such as energy centre , demolition or car parking . my ministerial colleague with responsibility for the new hospital programme , Lord Markham , have be visit these site up and down the country to see at first hand how some of the scheme be progress . I can assure my hon . friend that his lordship ' s enthusiasm for the programme match his own . I thank my hon . friend for continue to champion this investment in his constituency and for his continued engagement in the new hospital scheme . he be right to hold our foot to the fire ; let the record show that we be committed to every scheme announce as part of the new hospital programme and deliver the new hospital in Milton Keynes by 2030 , because I know that he will be hold minister to account , as he do so diligently on this and so many other issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .