there be nothing that would make I give such drastic advice . the truth about the apprenticeship levy be that 99 . 6 % of it will be spend this year . we can look in the rear view mirror , and there be some report go back over time that show some underspend in the levy , but they be back over time . we be now spend 99 . 6 % of the levy . perhaps what the hon . Gentleman have not appreciate be that some of the funding go to the devolved government . if we examine the apprenticeship system in Wales and Scotland , it be not a patch on what we have introduce in England . the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study be publish in May this year . England have come fourth among 43 country that test child of the same age , nine and 10 - year - old . in 2012 we introduce the phonic screening check , test six - year - old for their progress in reading and phonic . in that year , 58 % of pupil reach the expect standard ; by 2019 , just before the pandemic , the proportion have rise to 82 % follow a transformation in the teaching of phonic in nearly all primary school . of course the Secretary of State will agree , as she have just say to I . we be spend record amount of funding on school . the Secretary of State achieve an extra £ 2 billion in the autumn statement last year and we be now spend £ 59 . 6 billion on school funding . we have recruit 2 , 800 more teacher this year than last year and we have a record number of teacher in the profession , at 468 , 000 , but of course I be happy to talk to the hon . Lady and the teacher in her constituency to discuss their particular concern . with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to announce the publication of the Government ' s high education reform consultation response . this country be one of the good in the world for study in high education , boast four of the world ' s top 10 university . for most , high education be a sound investment , with graduate expect to earn on average £ 100 , 000 more over their lifetime than those who do not go to university . however , there be still pocket of high education provision where the promise that university education will be worthwhile do not hold true and where an unacceptable number of student do not finish their study or find a good job after graduate . that can not continue . it be not fair to taxpayer who subsidise that education , but most of all it be not fair to those student who be be sell a promise of a well tomorrow , only to be disappoint and end up pay far into the future for a degree that do not offer they good value . we want to make sure that student be charge a fair price for their study and that a university education offer a good return . our reform be aim at achieve that objective . that be why the Government launch the consultation in 2022 , to seek view on policy base on recommendation make by Sir Philip Augar and his independent panel . the consultation end in May 2022 , and the Department for Education have be consider the response receive . I be now able to set out the programme of reform that we be take forward . I believe that the traditional degree continue to hold great value , but it be not the only high education pathway . over the past 13 year , we have make substantial reform to ensure that the traditional route be not the only pathway to a good career . high technical qualification massively enhance student ' skill and career prospect , and deserve parity of esteem with undergraduate degree . we have see a growth in degree - level apprenticeship , with over 188 , 000 student enrol since their introduction in 2014 . I have ask the Office for student to establish a £ 40 million competitive degree apprenticeship fund to drive forward capacity - build project to broaden access to degree apprenticeship over the next two year . that drive to encourage skill be why we be also invest up to £ 115 million to help provider deliver high technical education . in March , we set out detailed information on how the lifelong learning entitlement will transform the way in which individual can undertake post - 18 education , and we continue to support that transformation through the Lifelong Learning ( high Education Fee Limits ) Bill , which be currently pass through the other place . we anticipate that that funding , couple with the introduction of the LLE from 2025 , will help to incentivise the take - up of high technical education , fill vital skill gap across the country . each of those reform have have one simple premise : that we be educate people with the skill that will enable they to have a long and fulfilling career . I believe that we should have the same expectation for high education : it should prepare student for life by give they the right skill and knowledge to get well - pay job . with the advent of the lle , it be neither fair nor right for student to use potentially three quarter of their lifelong learning entitlement for a university degree that do not offer they good return . that would constrain their future ability to learn , earn and retrain . we must shrink the part of the sector that do not deliver value , and ensure that student and taxpayer be get value for money give their considerable investment . datum show that there be 66 provider from which few than 60 % of graduate progress to high - skilled employment or further study fifteen month after graduate . that be not acceptable . I will therefore issue statutory guidance to the OfS set out that it should impose recruitment limit on provision that do not meet its rigorous quality requirement for positive student outcome , to help to constrain the size and growth of course that do not deliver for student . we will also ask the ofs to consider how it can incorporate graduate earning into its quality regime . we recognise that many factor can influence graduate earning , but student have a right to expect that their investment in high education will improve their career prospect , and we should rightly scrutinise course that appear to offer limited add value to student on the metric that matter most to many . we will work with the ofs to consider franchising arrangement in the sector . all organisation that deliver high education must be hold to robust standard . I be concern about some indication that franchising be act as a potential route for low quality to seep into the high education system , and I be absolutely clear that lead provider have a responsibility to ensure that franchised provision be of the same quality as directly deliver provision . if we find example of undesirable practice , we will not hesitate to act far on franchising . as I have say , we will ensure that student be charge a fair price for their study . that be why we be also reduce to £ 5 , 760 the fee for classroom - base foundation year course such as business study and social science , in line with the high standard funding rate for access to he diploma . recently we have see an explosion in the growth of many such course , but limited evidence that they be in the good interest of student . we be not reduce the fee limit for high - cost , strategically important subject such as veterinary science and medicine , but we want to ensure that foundation year be not use to add to the bottom line of institution at the expense of those who study they . we will continue to monitor closely the growth of foundation year provision , and we will not hesitate to introduce further restriction or reduction . I want provider to consider whether those course add value for student , and to phase out that provision in favour of a broad range of tertiary option with the advent of the LLE . our aim be that everyone who want to benefit from high education have the opportunity to do so . that be why we will not proceed at this time with a minimum requirement of academic attainment to access student finance — although we will keep that option under review . I be confident that the sector will respond with the ambition and focused collaboration require to deliver this package of reform . I extend my wholehearte thank to those in the sector for their response to the consultation . this package of reform represent the next step in tackle low - quality high education , but it will not be the last step . the Government will not shy away from further action if require , and will consider all lever available to we if these quality reform do not result in the improvement we seek . our high education system be admire across many country , and these measure will ensure that it continue to be . I commend this statement to the House . yes . the University of Buckingham have take an excellent leadership position and its two - year degree be very much welcome by many people . we will introduce the lifelong learning entitlement , which will revolutionise how and when people go to university , what type of course they take , for what period of time , and how they make those decision over their entire career and lifetime .