Speaker ' s statement I want to make a statement about Saturday ' s security incident . the safety and security of all who work on and visit the parliamentary estate be my top priority . I have ask for a review to be undertake of Saturday ' s incident and will ensure that lesson be learn from it . I thank all those who be involve in help to ensure that Saturday ' s incident be resolve safely . an individual have be charge , and the House ' s sub judice resolution now apply . finally , I remind member that we do not discuss the detail of security measure in the Chamber . I will not be take point of order on this matter . if member or other have concern , they should contact the director of parliamentary security . of course , I be always available to discuss these issue with colleague . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — school : Exceptional funding what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of exceptional funding for school . I be proud that while this government have make tough decision , we have protect key education priority . there be additional investment in breakfast club , we be rebuild and improve our special educational need and disability system , and we be do much more . after 14 year of decline , dither and delay , we be put education back at the heart of national life and break down barrier to opportunity for every child in every community . in response to the hon . Lady ' s specific question , exceptional funding will continue to be allocate through local authority on a case - by - case basis . Chesham grammar school , in my constituency , have receive exceptional funding from the Department for some year to facilitate the hire of the neighbouring leisure centre ' s sport hall for PE lesson . this year , the school ' s application have be deny , despite its circumstance not have change ; it still have no on - site sport hall , and it still need to fund the £ 65 , 000 hiring fee each year . will the Minister meet I to discuss this particular case to ensure that the student of Chesham grammar school have access to the PE curriculum the school be require to provide come September ? I would be happy to arrange a meeting for the hon . Lady to discuss this matter far . Buckinghamshire request for a local authority - own facility to be fund , and , in line with the publish guidance , rental cost for local authority - own facility be out of scope of the exceptional funding . however , local authority should organise such provision within the cost availability for school . I would be happy to discuss the matter far . too many child in Southall go to school hungry , so I be delighted that the Chancellor and this Labour Government have choose to triple investment in breakfast club , and that some of the first free breakfast club will open at Blair Peach and Wolf Fields primary school in my constituency . do the Minister agree that child learn well with a full stomach ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , which be why we be focus our investment on breakfast club , which will ensure that child get not only a good start to the day with a full belly , but the support of a club that will help they to achieve and thrive . Breakfast Clubs Early Adopter Scheme how many school leave the breakfast club early adopter scheme prior to 24 February 2025 . last month , Labour announce the first wave of primary school set to offer the new free breakfast club . we be delighted that more than 3 , 000 school apply to be early adopter , with 750 start to deliver from the summer term , mean that child will start the day ready to learn and parent will save up to £ 450 . while conservative member can not bring themselves to welcome the club , Labour be boost parent ' work choice and child ' s life chance . primary school have be force to pull out of the pilot or take a financial hit to participate in it . do the Secretary of State really believe that the basic funding rate for breakfast be 60p ? no , I do not , because that be not actually the case . I be afraid that be not the only area where the hon . Lady be mistaken . the Conservatives should swallow their pride and welcome these breakfast club , which will transform the life chance of child across our country , be incredibly popular with parent , and will ensure that all our child get a brilliant start to the school day . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome Opposition Members ' interest in breakfast club . can the Secretary of State confirm that all primary school and all primary school student will have breakfast club by the end of this Parliament ? I recognise the incredible work that the early adopter will be take forward , but it be the case that all primary school will offer a universal free breakfast club under this Labour Government . opposition member can raise the previous scheme that they leave behind all they like , but those scheme be far less generous . this Labour Government be treble investment in breakfast club . Regional Improvement for Standards and Excellence Teams what progress her Department have make on establish regional improvement for standard and excellence team . labour ' s rise team have hit the ground run . the first wave of adviser — professional with a prove track record of drive up standard — be now draw up improvement plan with school . the Tories leave more than 600 stuck school teach over 300 , 000 child with no plan for improvement . labour will drive high and rise standard , turn those school around and create a system where every child can achieve and thrive . in my area , the Government have identify six stuck school in Cheshire East and two in Cheshire West . can the Secretary of State explain the support that will be make available to they to drive up standard ? what lever do rise team have if school choose not to follow their advice ? universal support will be available to all school to drive up standard , but we expect all school to engage in mandatory , target rise intervention . we will not hesitate to act where there be concern . unlike the last Conservative Government , we will not stand by as child pass through school that be not deliver , year after year . the attainment gap in the south - west be the large in England , across the primary and secondary sector . in the past , local authority have play a big role in improve education . what plan do the Government have for local authority to be involve in close that attainment gap ? the hon . Lady be right to identify the disadvantage gap that exist in many part of the country , and the challenge in her part of the country . we believe that local authority have an important role to play , work with trust leader and other to drive up standard . that be why , through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , we be bring forward measure to ensure that the system work together more effectively , include in area such as admission and place planning . Curriculum and Assessment Review when she expect the interim report on the curriculum and assessment review to be publish . under the Tories , young people feel underprepared for their future , and employer agree that too many be leave school lack the skill need in the modern workplace and ill - equipped for an ever - change world . through the independent curriculum and assessment review , Labour will bring forward a cutting - edge curriculum that ensure that all our child leave school ready for work and for life . the interim report will be publish in the spring . parent and pupil will think that minister be on another planet when they hear such answer . sat in year 2 and 6 mean that primary school can be hold accountable , and that we can measure progress datum through secondary education , but the National Education Union say that SATs " do not benefit learn " and want the Government to abolish they . will the Minister rule out abolish sat in primary school — yes or no ? assessment clearly have an important role to play in support achievement and development within school . we will consider how the reform curriculum and assessment will affect school . we recognise the importance of support school through any change that come forward in the interim and final report . from the rise of Andrew Tate to the re - emergence of Tommy Robinson , lot of young people I speak to are concerned about the extremism and conspiracy theory that they be encounter online . last month , an important report from Public First and the Pears Foundation highlight the need to do more to empower school and teacher to tackle those thing in the classroom . how will we use the curriculum review to make the most of this moment to empower young people to feel safe in online space ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we already provide guidance and resource to help and support teacher to recognise some of those challenge , to intervene swiftly where necessary , and not to tolerate a culture that excuse harm and the experience of woman . school must be place where all young people can thrive and be ready for work and life . we will ensure that the curriculum and assessment review reflect that . I call the shadow Minister . one reason why England ' s school rise up the international league table in recent year be that they spend more time on core academic subject such as English and math . have fall sharply under the last Labour Government , the share of pupil do double or triple science at GCSE have also go up from 70 % to 98 % . can the Minister reassure the House that time will not be take away from the core academic subject , and that their content will not be cut back , as a result of the curriculum review ? the Government enter office to unprecedented challenge , include crumble public service and crippling public finance . in the face of a significant financial black hole we be take tough decision to fix the foundation , but we be protect key education priority , rebuild school and roll out breakfast club , and we will continue to do so . Special Educational Needs and Disabilities Funding what step she be take to increase funding for SEND provision . what step she be take to ensure adequate level of high need block funding . the Government inherit a " lose , lose , lose " SEND situation . the Tories even describe it as such in their own word , with the Deputy Chief Whip say that they should hang their head in shame over what they leave behind . since enter government , Labour have restructure the Department to put SEND at its heart . we have invest £ 1 billion into service , and £ 740 million to create additional specialist place . but we be under no illusion that reform to the system be desperately need , and we have bring in expert adviser to help we achieve that . in London alone , the deficit for this year be estimate to be £ 313 . 8 million , but that will grow to £ 502 million next year unless more money be put in . clearly , there be a problem that we need to address . ideally , those with special educational need should be teach in mainstream education . however , it be much cheap for local authority to have in - house provision and special need school in the borough , rather than send child to another more expensive borough . Harrow be grant a new special educational need school under the last government . will the Minister confirm that it will proceed ? it have the support of all the headteacher and cross - party support . the hon . Gentleman describe the challenge that result from 14 year under the previous Government . we recognise the strain that the rise cost of SEND provision be put on local government , which be why we will be set out plan to reform the SEND system , with further detail to come this year , include how local authority will be support to manage their historical and accruing deficit . decision on new school provision and building will also be make in due course . have the Department give due consideration to update the allocation policy ? it be currently base on historical funding , which leave borough such as Barking and Dagenham at a disadvantage for SEN provision compare with inner - London borough . the structure of the high need funding formula be largely unchanged in 2025 - 26 , as we take time to consider what change might be necessary to ensure a fair system that direct funding to where it be need and that will support our future SEND reform . we will continue to consider where change to the formula will be require . the Secretary of State visit a school in Dagenham in December and see at first hand its excellent work and the difference it be make to child with special educational need in my hon . friend ' s area . I draw the attention of member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I have a school in my constituency that be very good at help student with education , health and care plan — so much so that it be struggle with the number of student who have ehcp . will the Minister meet I to discuss this issue and wide SEND issue in my constituency ? the Government want to ensure that education , health and care plan be issue quickly , to help child and young people achieve and thrive . official work continuously with local authority to offer support where there be issue with timeliness , to ensure that effective recovery plan be in place . I be sure that a meeting could be arrange for the hon . Gentleman to discuss his particular concern in more detail . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . the deep crisis in our SEND system , which be one of both funding and delivery , be let down far too many child , and require urgent action . will the Minister update the House on the timing of the Government ' s plan for SEND , and provide assurance that there will be full engagement with parent , professional and young people with SEND on any such plan ? we recognise the unprecedented pressure that local authority be under and that the system do not currently deliver the good education possible for family , who want the good for their child , as quickly or thoroughly as it should . we will be announce more detail of reform plan this year . we consult continuously with family , representative of family and local authority , and we will work closely with my hon . friend ' s Committee . across the 46 school in Mid Norfolk , SEND provision be the no . 1 issue for parent , teacher and staff . contrary to the party political broadcast from Ministers , in the last 14 year I be lucky to secure £ 7 million from the conservative coalition for a new school and Conservative county council funding for a new school in Swaffham . official in the Department for Education have also be constructive in work on a pathfinder for rural hub - and - speak support . parent in rural area really struggle . what be minister do to take that forward to support small rural school to access specialist help in hub ? I know that the hon . Gentleman raise his concern in all sincerity . we will continue to work with all partner , parent , teacher , local authority and indeed the NHS on how we reform our SEND system and ensure that the support that be need reach every part of every community . our ambition be for a more inclusive mainstream school system that draw on the right education and health specialist to ensure that every child receive the support that they deserve . far too many child with complex learning disability and autism have be fail by the system and end up have a place not in their local community , but in institution . that disproportionately affect black child , which be synonymous with the ' 60 and ' 70 when they be classify as " educationally subnormal " . will the Minister explain what work be be do to identify the number of child who have be institutionalise ? what work have be undertake to review and amend those situation ? I know that this issue be important to my hon . friend . she have , quite rightly , be raise it through a number of avenue . I will continue to work with she to ensure that we learn from the past , when far too many child be let down , and that , as we reform our SEND system , it be fit for purpose and serve every child . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . some of the huge cost pressure on SEND budget be be drive by the lack of state special school place , with many council force to send child with complex need to private special school that can cost two to three time more than local authority provision . there be many brilliant independent special school provide value for money , yet we know that some private equity firm be profiteer with upwards of 20 % profit margin from the school that they run . why will Ministers not back Liberal Democrat amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to include special school in their propose profit cap backstop for child ' s social care provider ? the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that the hon . Lady know bring forward really important change that will keep child safe as well as reform our school system so that it serve all . we be focus on improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school and ensure that we do have special school that can cater for those with the most complex need . our priority be restore the trust that parent should have that their child will get the support they need . we will do all that be necessary as part of our SEND reform to ensure that that be deliver . institute of Technology what recent progress she have make on determine the future of the institute of technology . the Department value the approach of the institute of technology , which bring together education and industry to develop and deliver curriculum relate to local employer and create sustainable pathway for talent development . we will continue to work with iot — include Swindon and Wiltshire IOT — in develop our strategy for post - 16 skill . I thank the Minister for her response . would she consider meet I so that we can work together on grow iot like Swindon , especially give their degree - award power ? iot bring together further education and high education provider to deliver high level technical qualification include degree and apprenticeship . I could offer to meet my hon . friend , but I be sure he would much prefer to meet my noble Friend the Skills Minister from the other place . I will raise his request with she . the Stimulating Physics Network have be work to improve the knowledge , skill and confidence of non - specialist science teacher in secondary school , with outstanding result : in school that take part , there be 6 % more a - level physics entrant , and 29 % more girl take physics . that compare with 13 % in school that do not take part . however , funding for the scheme have be cancel from 31 March , which be a considerable problem for constituency like mine , which have a need for science , technology , engineering and math — STEM — skill , due to the need of the defence sector . what plan do the Minister have to fill the gap leave by the SPN , in order to ensure that the value of physics teaching in school be maintain , and to reassure teacher , include my constituent Thom , who have be commit to deliver the SPN ? we absolutely support girl and young woman to take STEM subject . it be interesting that the Conservatives do fund mid - year , which be unusual . as I be sure that they will be aware , hard decision need to be make because of the difficult fiscal situation inherit by this Government . we will continue to do more to get girl into STEM subject ; we be absolutely committed to this . read for pleasure what step she be take to increase the number of child and young people who read for pleasure . high and rise school standard , and excellent foundation in reading , writing and math , be a key part of our plan for change , which aim to ensure that every child get the good start in life . read for pleasure be hugely important . last month , Labour announce £ 2 million of investment in drive high and rise standard by embed the success of phonic and ensure that child and teacher develop reading skill . that include child read for pleasure . when I be grow up in the 1980 , my nose be always bury in a book , and I let my imagination run wild . nowadays , nine in 10 child have a mobile phone by the time they reach the age of 11 , and statistic show that there have be a steep decline in the number of child read for pleasure . do the Minister agree that the like of Roald Dahl and Jacqueline Wilson should not be replace by a smartphone , and will she prioritise child ' s read for pleasure in the school curriculum ? I be sure all member join in celebrate World Book Day in their school . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and recognise how important it be to encourage child to read for pleasure . we know that read for pleasure do happen in school ; teacher already encourage their student to listen to , discuss and read a wide range of story , poem , book and play . importantly , this can also start at home , where parent can show how much they love read . that be why I commend the lbc campaign , kid who Read Succeed , an excellent initiative to encourage read and ensure that all child , parent and teacher get that message . in all four library in my constituency this week , Mid Sussex baby and toddler will be enjoy themselves at rhyme time ; I hope that will be the start of many happy year of reading for my young constituent . will the Minister join I in congratulate West Sussex library service on its 100th birthday last month , and will she commit to lobby the Chancellor and the Deputy Prime Minister to ensure that my county council be sufficiently well fund to enable West Sussex to keep its 36 library open to the public for another 100 year ? I absolutely join the hon . Lady in congratulate the library service on its success . we all know how valuable our local library be in support and encourage child and family to read . this be obviously a priority ; we encourage read for pleasure as much as read for study , and it be something we clearly need more of — as be longevity , as she rightly say . I call the shadow Minister , Neil o ' Brien . I completely agree with the hon . member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) . what be displace read for pleasure among child be smartphone and social medium , include in school . the Department for Education ' s own behaviour survey find that nearly half of pupil in year 10 and 11 report that in most or all lesson , mobile phone be be use when they should not be . the guidance be not work , so why be the Government continue to block our proposal for a proper ban on smartphone in school ? last year , under the previous Government , we see the steep year - on - year drop in the number of child and young people enjoy read . the hon . member should look at the record of his government before point the finger . phone should not be out in school ; it be a simple as that . head have the power to impose rule that suit their school community . just a year ago , his Government claim that they be " prohibit " mobile phone in school , and that their guidance mean a " consistent approach " across school . those be their word . the then Secretary of State say : " we be give our hard - work teacher the tool to take action " . be that Secretary of State right back then , when they back the Tory Government ' s measure , or be the hon . member ? " break down Barriers to Opportunity " Mission what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the plan for change mission entitle " break down Barriers to Opportunity " . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the plan for change mission entitle " break down Barriers to Opportunity " . this Labour Government be determined to break the link between background and success , so that where someone be from do not determine where they end up in life . that work start with the early year , which be when we can make the big difference to child ' s life chance . through our plan for change , we will get ten of thousand more child — a record share — start school ready to learn , because child grow up in our country deserve the good start in life , and nothing less . what specific step be be take to ensure that the plan for change will help those in my constituency of Wolverhampton West who have historically face systemic barrier to opportunity , such as those with special educational need , those from ethnic minority background , and those from a background of low socioeconomic status ? in Wolverhampton West and across our country , this Labour Government be determined to ensure that background be no barrier to get on in modern Britain . that be why we will reform the special educational need and disability system to ensure that all our child get the support that they need to thrive . alongside that , we have deliver the big ever uplift in the early year pupil premium . we be roll out breakfast club in our primary school and will be launch the first phase of primary - base nursery , ensure that all our child have access to fantastic early year education . last week , I visit Hertfordshire and Essex high school in Bishop ' s Stortford , Sele school in Hertford , and Hertford regional college in Ware . at each one , I meet young people with exciting ambition for the future . I welcome the action that the Government be take to build our young people ' s confidence and open up opportunity for they . as we break down the barrier to opportunity , will the Secretary of State set out in further detail how the Government be support young people in constituency like mine to discover a subject that they be passionate about , develop a new skill and find the path that be right for they ? my hon . friend have evidently have a busy week in his constituency , and I know he champion young people and the need to drive up standard in education . under our plan for change , we be start learn early through accessible and affordable early year education . we be ensure that all young people will have the skill that they need to seize opportunity , with strong pathway into post - 16 learning . we also want to ensure that throughout people ' s life , they have the chance to get on at work . the change that I set out during National Apprenticeship Week — we be cut red tape to create more than 10 , 000 apprenticeship — will make a big difference to adult learner in his constituency and right across our country . this slogan word salad of a question talk about break down barrier to opportunity . many of my constituent want to know how on earth implement an education tax on the independent school sector break down barrier to opportunity . it put up those barrier for parent who have scrimp and save to put their child through independent school . it be a policy of spite that will hurt the state school sector . what this Government be do be far from break down barrier ; it be put up barrier to aspiration . this Labour Government be aspirational and ambitious for all our child , include the vast majority of child who go to school in the state system . I be go to say that the Conservatives have not get much to say on education , and that be true , but the one policy that they actually have be to reverse the tax change that Labour have introduce in order to invest more in our state system . we need to hear from they where they would find the money to pay for the teacher and wide support that all our child deserve . despite all the scaremongering that we have hear from the private school lobby , at national offer day last week , more child get their first - choice place . what the scaremonger predict have just not come to pass . the plan for change include the mission to break down barrier to opportunity and build an NHS fit for the future , but many NHS trust , include mine , which represent St Richard ' s hospital in Chichester , report that they be unable to offer level 6 and level 7 apprenticeship , due to a lack of backfill funding . that often result in they hand back the apprenticeship levy . what step be the Department for Education take to address that fundamental flaw in the scheme , and to ensure that apprenticeship deliver the nurse and midwife of the future ? apprenticeship have an important role to play in our system , include in our NHS . I be work closely with the Health Secretary to ensure that we address the long - stand workforce challenge leave behind by the Conservatives , as part of the workforce plan for the NHS . we want to ensure that all employer can take on more apprentice and that we drive forward in key shortage area . the change that we be introduce through Skills England will make a big difference in address and respond to the big skill shortage that we face in this country . I call the shadow Minister . labour ' s plan say that the early year must be the top priority , but a survey by the National Day Nurseries Association find that nursery fee be go up by 10 % on average because the Government be not compensate nursery for the cost of the national insurance increase . will the Government rethink that decision , which the Early Years Alliance have describe as " catastrophic " , or will it be just another example of a tax on work people ? we be invest more in the early year system through the Budget ; there be record level of investment to support family with the expansion that they be promise by the Conservatives , but for which there have be no funding for delivery . we have also deliver the single - big uplift in the early year pupil premium , alongside an expansion grant , because we know that , in too many part of the country , parent be unable to access the place that they have be promise . we be determined to turn that around . our ambition to roll out primary - base nursery will also make a big difference by support parent in the childcare desert leave by the Conservatives . school cost what step she be take to help reduce the cost of send child to school . our child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will introduce free breakfast club in all state - fund primary school in England , and measure to help with the cost of school uniform . breakfast club will save family up to £ 450 a year , put money directly back into parent ' pocket . our action be urgent , which be why we be roll out 750 early adopter from April — we be get on with deliver the change that we promise . limit the number of brand uniform item will give parent more flexibility , keep cost down for family and save some parent over £ 50 on the back - to - school shop . I thank the Minister for his answer and congratulate the Department on its excellent work on the child poverty taskforce . Lesson time and learning be be significantly affect by high level of child poverty . school in Sheffield Central tell I that many low - income family be really struggle financially . will the Minister confirm what specific action the Government be take to turn the tide on child poverty and put money back into people ' s pocket ? there be no challenge more crucial for this Government than tackle child poverty . the taskforce have start the urgent work of publish the strategy , which will look at lever across four key theme : increase income , reduce essential cost , increase financial resilience , and well local support , especially in early year . parent whose child have special educational need and disability do not wish to send their child to far - away school , but they have to , because of a lack of local provision . if the child be over the age of 16 , however , it be at the discretion of the local authority to decide whether to meet the cost of transport they to school , even though education be effectively compulsory until the age of 18 . many local authority , include in Leicester South , be now pass that cost entirely on to parent . will the Minister commit to deal with SEND transport cost in the Department ' s work to reduce the cost of send child to school ? I will happily meet the hon . member to discuss those issue far . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Child Poverty Action Group estimate that the parent of a child in secondary school spend , on average , over £ 480 a year on school uniform . the Government ' s move to limit the number of brand uniform item to three or four be well intentione , but there be nothing to stop the overinflation of the price of those item . a cap on cost , review annually , would not just guarantee pound and penny save for parent , but give school the freedom to set their own uniform policy , rather than Ministers in Whitehall tell headteacher and school governor what to do . will Ministers think again and back the Liberal Democrat amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill next week ? school uniform play a valuable role in create a sense of common identity and reduce visible inequality among pupil . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson make a number of point in the Bill Committee , and the Department will certainly take forward her view and idea . School Exclusion : pupil with SEND what recent assessment she have make of trend in the number of school exclusion of pupil with special educational need and disability . every child have the right to succeed in education . we publish datum termly and review trend , include where pupil with SEND be disproportionately affect by exclusion . we know that some group of child be at high risk of exclusion , which be why the Government be break down barrier to opportunity by ensure early intervention in mainstream school for all pupil , include those at risk of exclusion . we be clear that school have a legal duty not to discriminate against pupil with SEND under the Equality Act 2010 . too many child with SEND in South Cambridgeshire be out of school , due not only to exclusion but to the long waiting time for specialist or alternative provision when mainstream school can not meet their need . I be shocked to hear about Harry , a constituent of mine who have be receive just two hour of forest school a week for the past 15 month as his only education — 15 month ! what urgent action be the Minister take to increase specialist and alternative provision , so that child like Harry can get the full and adequate education they need and deserve ? I thank the hon . member for share Harry ' s story — I know she be a champion for such issue in her constituency . the Government ' s ambition be for all child with SEND to receive the right support to succeed . the curriculum assessment review will look at how barrier to exclusion can be remove and high standard support for child , to support furth the vision that the Department announce . there be also £ 740 million for the high need capital block next year . permanent exclusion from primary school should be an almost non - existent occurrence . any primary - age pupil exhibit difficult behaviour should undertake diagnosis for SEND , and good effort should be make to understand any trauma that the child may have suffer . what be the Minister do to ensure that we build a system that prioritise the early identification of need and quick delivery of intervention , so that child do not fall behind ? we be aware that some group of child have a high risk of exclusion , which be why we be break down barrier to opportunity , to ensure that every child can achieve and thrive . we be committed to ensure early intervention in mainstream school for pupil , particularly those at risk of exclusion . Multi - academy trust : Management accountability what step she be take to improve management accountability at multi - academy trust . accountability be non - negotiable for this Government , and we know that when standard slip , it be disadvantaged child who suffer . through ofsted reform , we be put an end to high stake , low information headline judgment , and in their place school report card will provide clear detail on what school be do well , and where they must improve . high standard must be for every child in every school , so we be increase the oversight of multi - academy trust . our focus remain on standard , not structure . I have a case in my constituency where a governor feel that she be push out , have raise concern about senior teaching staff . I understand from last year ' s Sky News report that that may not necessarily be an isolated incident , as the accountability process potentially involve trustee mark their own homework . I be a strong supporter of academy , but there must be a balance . will the Minister commit to bring in a system of accountability and transparency to prevent such thing from happen ? where concern about an academy be identify or raise , the Department work closely with the trust to ensure that all statutory requirement be be meet . we be legislate in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill for a more proportionate route to intervention in the event of trust not comply with legal duty , or act in a way that be not reasonable . I appreciate the complexity of the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise , and I would be happy to arrange a meeting to discuss it far . in my constituency of Camborne and Redruth , a small number of multi - academy trust be contribute to a high level of suspension and exclusion . will the Minister meet I to discuss that as a matter of urgency ? I appreciate the concern that my hon . friend raise , and I would be happy to arrange a meeting to discuss they in more detail . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Laura Trott . one of the key metric for hold school and trust to account be pupil number ; parent vote with their foot . why be the Secretary of State stop good school from be able to expand in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ? that will stop competition and accountability , erode parental choice , and drive down standard . the right hon . Lady appear to have misunderstood both the aim and impact of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . we recognise that parent must have an opportunity to have good school in their area , and that school must be able to set admission number to meet the requirement of the local community . that be why we expect local authority to co - operate with school in their area , and expect all school to co - operate with the local authority , to ensure that the right number of school place be available in the area where they be need . Agricultural Education and Training what step she be take to increase funding for agricultural education and training . land - base college receive high funding per student to support delivery of programme in agriculture , horticulture and forestry , and animal care and veterinary science . the 16 to 19 national funding rate will rise by 3 . 78 % in 2025 - 26 , increase the funding for those programme . Kingston Maurward college in my constituency of West Dorset provide essential training in agriculture , offer degree , apprenticeship and short course to equip the next generation of farmer with critical skill . what measure will the Minister take to ensure that farming course be not underfunde compare with other vocational course , and that agriculture be promote as a viable career path ? this Government be commit to education for 16 to 19 - year - old , and beyond . extra funding be available for all important skill in high - value and high - cost area , include manufacturing and farming . we value farmer hugely and we be commit to invest £ 5 million in the farming budget over two year . construction Apprenticeships what step she be take to increase the number of construction apprenticeship . where the previous Government fail , Labour be get Britain build again . our pioneer new homebuilding skill hub will deliver fast - track training , mean more opportunity , new home and strong growth . some 32 hub across the country will create 5 , 000 more construction apprenticeship place and play a part in get Britain build again . a homebuilding revolution require a skill revolution , and Labour will provide more home , great opportunity and strong growth . have work in construction for a couple of decade , prior to be elect , I be glad the Government recognise the importance of the industry and be firmly committed to house building , especially social and affordable housing , to make the dream of home ownership a reality once again for our young people . the Conservative Government duck the difficult decision for too long , so will the Minister outline exactly how the Government plan to create the skill and apprenticeship that we need so that the home that Slough family deserve can finally be build ? I assure my hon . friend that this Government be not duck or dive the tough decision that need to be make . homebuilding skill hub will create more apprenticeship in occupation where there be shortage , such as bricklaying and groundwork . the change that we have introduce to English and math will support thousand more apprentice to achieve each year , include in construction . this government of action be build the skilled workforce this country need , include in Slough . level 7 apprenticeship play a vital role throughout our economy , include in the construction industry , and support social mobility . I recently meet young , hard - work apprentice in Mid Bedfordshire who would not be able to achieve their ambition without level 7 , but there be concern about the future of those apprenticeship . will the Minister take this opportunity to reassure employer and apprentice that she understand the value of level 7 apprenticeship ? this Government have an extremely challenging fiscal inheritance . there be tough choice to take on how funding should be prioritise to generate opportunity for young people to start fulfil career . learner who have start will be fund to completion and we expect to make a final decision on effective apprenticeship shortly . we be commit to level 7 apprenticeship and to people continue their education to a good standard . School Building Programmes what recent progress she have make on school building programme . we have commit £ 1 . 4 billion for 2025 / 26 to continue the current school rebuilding programme , which be rebuild or significantly refurbish building at 518 school and sixth form college across England . all project have be give indicative timeline for delivery , base on prioritisation of need . around half have be commence so far , and be at various stage of delivery . Cross Lane primary school , Shade primary school , Brooksbank school , Calder high school , Todmorden high school and Walsden Saint Peter ' s Church of England primary school be among 11 Calder Valley school to be rebuild under this Government , where the last Government fail . will the Minister confirm that under this Government no child will be leave learn in classroom that be not fit for purpose ? along with my hon . friend , I be delighted that so many school in his constituency be receive significant investment through the school rebuilding programme . ensure that school and college have the resource and building that they need be a key part of our plan to break down barrier to opportunity and ensure that every child get the good start in life . the Minister may remember that the last Labour Government have Building Schools for the Future . some £ 55 billion be spend on building and it to transform education — except building and it do not transform education . there be global evidence to back that up , because building school be not a new thing . can the Minister reassure the House that we will never have a repeat of that extravagant and waste programme , but that we will ensure we have functional school with brilliant teacher able to teach our child ? ensure that school and college have the resource and building that they need be key to our mission to break down barrier to opportunity . I will take no lecture from the conservative party on education . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last month , Labour announce the first 750 school set to offer free breakfast club . next month , through the club , we will boost the life chance of up to 180 , 000 child and begin to save parent up to £ 450 . that come as we improve the quality of early year education , alongside our Department ' s rise adviser , support stuck school , drive high and rise standard and bring school together to improve attendance . in National Apprenticeship Week , we celebrate by cut red tape to unlock 10 , 000 more apprenticeship every year . at the Department for Education , we be the Department for opportunity , and we be prove that we be the Department for delivery too . on Friday , I meet with the headteacher of all the secondary school in Rossendale . they face many challenge , but they be unanimous that the single big issue they face be a lack of capacity in special school and alternative provision in our area . Rossendale have no place , child ' s complex need be not be meet and huge additional pressure be be place on our mainstream school . that be the legacy of 14 year of neglect . what step will this Government take to address special school and alternative provision in area such as Rossendale and Darwen ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern and the concern of headteacher in his constituency . sadly , I hear that story in every part of our country . we inherit as a Government a system that the previous Secretary of State describe as " lose , lose , lose " . we be invest more into the system and we want to ensure that there be more mainstream inclusion , but we recognise the need to invest in specialist provision for child who need it most . I call the shadow Secretary of State . how on earth can the Secretary of State justify spend £ 90 million on a one - year contract for advertising and medium while cut a £ 4 million latin excellence programme mid - year that be help to improve school standard in some of the most deprived area of the country ? do that not show that the Secretary of State ' s priority be all wrong ? the right hon . Lady be a Minister in the Treasury , and she be responsible for leave behind the black hole that this Labour Government be have to sort out . we face unprecedented challenge . when it come to Latin , we be work with classic association to ensure that child can continue to study Latin . it be important that child in our state school have that opportunity , but the Conservatives design the scheme to terminate in February . maybe the right hon . Lady can tell we why that be . the Secretary of State be spend £ 90 million on advertising . she be cut not just latin programme , but compute hub , language hub and advanced math . be those also less important than her advertising budget ? yet again , we hear a lot of sound and fury from the right hon . Lady , but no recognition of the mess that the Conservatives leave behind , which it fall to this Labour Government to resolve . we be invest more in early year , more into our school and more into 16 - 19 education . yes , some of the investment we need to make be about ensure that people come forward to train as teacher , particularly because of the chronic issue we face around recruitment and retention because of the mess leave behind after the last Conservative Government . Red Hall primary school in my constituency of Dudley be split down the middle by Zoar Street . the theft of lead from the victorian roof , leakage and no real playground do not make an environment for child to thrive . in 2010 , the Conservatives shelve the plan to consolidate and repair the school on one side of the road . will the Minister meet with I to discuss reopen those plan ? this Government have increase capital funding to improve the condition of school building to £ 2 . 1 billion for the next financial year . this will include funding for Dudley local authority to invest in improve the condition of its maintain school , include Red Hall primary school . capital funding and programme for school beyond 2025 - 26 will be confirm follow the spending review . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend , who be a real champion for child in her constituency . the University of Kent , which be the large employer in my constituency , be make yet more redundancy due to the enormous debt it owe to international bank . will the Secretary of State commit to hold crisis meeting with desperate university and their creditor , to help secure more sustainable term and a potential way out of the financial emergency that they face ? I recognise the pressure that many institution across our country face . the last Conservative Government regard university as a political battleground , not a public good . we face a big challenge in stabilise the finance of our university , which be why we have refocus the Office for student to ensure that it tackle much early the challenge that the hon . Lady describe . that be also why I take the difficult but necessary decision to increase tuition fee so that we have more revenue go into our university . the previous Government fail to build much - need new school building at Dorset studio school , and fail for year to open the propose Osprey Quay special school for child with special educational need . dorset studio school urgently need a new home , and family in my patch be hugely in need of a SEND school at the Osprey Quay site , so can the Minister outline what step the Government be take to get those two crucial project over the line ? the feasibility and project cost for those project be currently be review , and the relevant approval will then be seek . I will ensure that my hon . friend be keep up to date on progress . ensure that school and college have the resource and building they need be key to our delivery of the opportunity mission and to give every child the good start in life . great teaching and great policy see child in England soar up the international league table under the last government to become the good in the western world . I think that the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill risk that progress . if the Secretary of State disagree , will she put her money where her mouth be and resign if England fall down the international league table ? that be the kind of hyperbole that we often get from the right hon . Gentleman . from that question , and from the shameless sense of pride — the misplaced sense of pride — that Conservative Members often have , you would not know that one in three child be not school ready , one in five child be regularly out of school , and our score be drop , contrary to what the right hon . Gentleman have suggest . we face big challenge around standard and a huge disadvantage gap . there be a lot that this Labour Government be have to turn around to ensure that all child get a great start in life . the Prime Minister ' s welcome announcement over the past couple of week of an increase in defence spending create both an opportunity and a challenge for the Department , as well as for the whole skill system in this country . will the Secretary of State please outline how she will work with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that gap be fill ? in particular , how will she ensure that the Scottish Government in Edinburgh take proper action on defence skill , as they have fail to do over the past 17 year ? my hon . friend be right . the first set of statistic release under the Labour Government show that apprenticeship start , participation and achievement be all on the up , compare with the same period under the Tories . we have celebrate by go far and fast to cut red tape , so that up to 10 , 000 more apprentice can achieve each year . that be a clear contrast to the failure that we see under the Tories for 14 year and the continue failure of the SNP . it be time for change in Scotland , and only Labour can deliver that change . yesterday afternoon , a group of five and six - year - old special educational need child have great fun running circle around their Member of Parliament on the football pitch at Matthew Arnold school in my constituency . can Labour Front bencher please use their good office to encourage Surrey county council to continue to fund the star player programme , which provide great fun for the child and great respite for the parent ? that sound like a lot of fun , and I commend the hon . Gentleman for participate . when it come to support what we know be brilliant project , local authority be increasingly challenge as a result of the funding deficit that the previous Government leave they , but I be sure they be keen to support those project . we will work with local authority on a continuous basis to ensure that child with special educational need and disability get the opportunity they deserve . a new report by London Councils predict a collective decline in demand for reception and year 7 place over the next five year , cause concern about the impact on school standard and pupil attainment . will the Minister meet I to discuss this important issue ? the Government be work closely with local authority to ensure that consideration be give to all option for utilise space , whether that be for early year provision or SEND provision , include merge provision where that be in the good interest of the community , and we will continue to do so . I or the early year Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the proposal . will the Secretary of State confirm how many SEND child be forecast to have to leave the independent sector and go into the state sector because of the imposition of vat on fee ? what will be the cost of that to the taxpayer ? labour ' s plan to end the tax break that private school enjoy will invest significant money into state education . I be really surprised that the hon . Gentleman do not welcome the extra investment that will be go into school in his constituency . when it come to child with SEND , where the place be derive through an ehcp , there will be no additional cost . as I say early , the scaremongering that people like he have engage in be just prove to be wrong . I have often raise the importance of further education and the transformative impact it can have . I know that the Minister and the Secretary of State share my belief in excellent education for all , instead of the broken skill system that the Tories leave behind . to that end , what step be the Minister take to ensure that student without the necessary qualification to get on to t - level do not end up fall through the net ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to demonstrate her concern . we want a skill system that provide opportunity and deliver growth . the curriculum and assessment review be look at how we can ensure that high - value qualification pathway be available for 16 to 19 - year - old . as we continue to reform qualification , we will consider the review finding and publish they later in the year . after some delay , the admirable Hounsdown school in my constituency have be promise a letter by the middle of March release fund for the replacement of its crumbling reinforce autoclave aerate concrete roofing . if that letter fail to materialise within the next week , may I appeal to a Minister to intervene ? I will happily take away the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern and make sure that he get a response as quickly as possible on the matter he raise . I welcome the progress that the Secretary of State and her team have make . it be clear that she be move at pace to increase opportunity for all . will she update the House on what progress she have make on our commitment to deliver mental health support in school ? the Government be commit to improve mental health support , and access to specialist mental health professional in every school , to help young people to achieve and thrive . we will work closely with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care and the NHS who will lead on service , include mental health support team . they be recruit 8 , 500 additional mental health staff to treat child and adult , get on with deliver the promise we make at the last election . what formal assessment have Ministers make , or will they make , of the benefit to child ' s mental health and physical health , resilience and ability to learn of invest in more opportunity for residential outdoor education experience ? the hon . member raise a number of important point . enriching opportunity for child and young people be a key part of our break down the barrier to opportunity . I be happy to meet he if he have particular example that he wish to share . parent in my rural constituency often express concern about the limited school option , which almost always involve travel some distance , but free transport be available only to the near school . what step be be take to review school transport cost overall ? will the limited school option available to rural parent be consider when update the home - to - school travel policy ? the Department ' s home - to - school travel policy aim to ensure that no child be prevent from access education due to a lack of transport . I be keen to understand how well home - to - school transport be support child to access educational opportunity . I be work closely with official on that , and I will bear my hon . friend ' s comment and concern in mind as that work continue . I start by wish you , Mr Speaker , and the House a happy Commonwealth Day . Conservative - lead Hertfordshire county council have do excellent work in support child with SEND , in my constituency and across the county , while see a 27 % increase in request for ehcp in 2024 . how be the Education Secretary direct her Department to provide further assistance to council such as Hertfordshire , which be have to find more and more money from its budget to support student with SEND ? we recognise the challenge in the area that the hon . Gentleman represent . a SEND improvement board chair independently by Dame Christine Lenehan oversee progress and provide challenge . we know that the system need wholesale reform ; we be work at pace and will make an announcement as soon as possible . Wednesday be Young Carers Action Day . will the Minister join I in thank young carer for all that they do , and commit herself to ensure that there be great awareness of they in school ? I must say that school in my constituency do very well in that regard . my hon . friend be right to mention young carer . the Government be commit to increase their visibility and ensure that they have the support that they need , at home and in education . we champion initiative such as Young Carers Action Day and the young carer covenant , which far highlight the need of young carer and the support available to they . what resource be be provide to school to support restorative justice initiative in relation to knife crime , especially victim - lead approach such as workshop or peer mentoring to engage young people in conversation about its prevention ? we hear about far too many case of young people be affect by knife crime , and I will take away the specific issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise . we be undertake a curriculum and assessment review , look closely at relationship , sex and health education , and consider how we can empower young people to be discern and respect one another and create a society base on value and tolerance . in each of the past two year , 40 , 000 teacher have leave the profession owe to burnout and excessive workload . what concrete step will the Government take to address that , and how can we reverse the exodus from this fantastic profession ? under the Tories teacher be overstretch and undervalue , so Labour be reset the relationship with the profession . we be properly remunerate teacher by accept the 5 . 5 % pay rise that the last Government sit on . we be also keen to cut unnecessary burden on teacher , harness artificial intelligence and support child with their mental health . the child poverty taskforce be determined to alleviate the burden that originate outside the school gate . what step be be take to support voluntary organisation across the United Kingdom , such as AWARE in Northern Ireland , that offer education programme to target depression and relate mood condition as part of mental health education in school ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the important contribution that voluntary and third sector organisation can make . here in England , through the consultation about relationship , sex and health education , we be look at what more we can do to ensure that all young people get the support that they need , include in the area that he have identify . school staff in North East Hertfordshire work tirelessly in dilapidated facility to support student with special educational need while parent face absurdly long journey to reach specialist school , and in the meantime the old Roysia school site in Royston lie vacant . will the Minister meet I to discuss the school estate in my constituency , and how we can use the Roysia site to meet local special educational need ? we be very open to idea for how we can well use the school estate to meet the need of young people , include those with SEND . we be determined to deliver a wide range of reform , and I — or , indeed , the early year Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) — would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss how we can well use the resource in his constituency for the benefit of all the child who need it . last week the Department announce that college would receive only two third of the funding that they be promise for the 35 , 000 additional 16 to 18 - year - old student enrol last autumn , a decision that could lead to thousand of prospective student be turn away this September . that follow a cut in the adult skill funding . can the Secretary of State explain how cut promise fund will help to address skill shortage in the economy and help to deliver the Government ' s growth mission ? I absolutely agree that skill be critical to drive growth . that be why we be now spend over £ 400 million more on 16 - to - 19 education — £ 100 million more than be announce at the Budget — include £ 87 million in in - year growth funding , to ensure that place be available where need . through the reform that we be drive with Skills England , we will make sure that where there be once a fragmented skill system , we have a coherent system that support all our young people and adult learner , too . Syria with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Syria . event in Syria over the past few day be deeply concern . we be work as quickly as possible to establish from reliable source of information what exactly happen and who be responsible , but report that a large number of civilian have be kill in coastal area in ongoing violence be horrific . as the Foreign Secretary make clear in his statement yesterday , the interim authority in Damascus must ensure the protection of all Syrians and set out a clear path to transitional justice . this be a critical moment for Syria , and for the interim authority to demonstrate their intent to promote stability and to govern in the interest of all Syrians . since the fall of Assad on 8 December , our priority have be to support a Syrian - lead and Syrian - own political transition that lead to an inclusive , non - sectarian and representative Government . we have be clear that anyone seek a role in govern Syria should demonstrate a commitment to the protection of human right , unfettered access for humanitarian aid and the safe destruction of chemical weapon stockpile , and combat terrorism and extremism . this be the only way forward towards a more stable , free and prosperous future for Syria and for Syrians , who suffer for so long under the brutal Assad regime . we have consistently emphasise this message in all our diplomatic engagement with the interim authority , and in concert with our international partner . we will continue to focus our diplomacy to this end . the UK be engage privately and regularly with the interim authority at every level , include through Ministers and our Syria envoy . we be support they to take step that will deliver a more stable , free and prosperous future for the syrian people . we welcome the announcement by interim syrian President al - Sharaa on form an inclusive transitional Government , lead to free and fair election . we welcome the national dialogue conference hold on 25 February . but the violence over the weekend demonstrate that more need to be do to bring Syria ' s different group together , and we urge the interim authority to urgently establish a clear process and timeline for the next phase of the transition . representative figure from across Syria need to be appoint to the transitional Government and the recently announce legislative council . our overarch objective be a stable Syria . in addition to support an inclusive political process , we be focus on prevent escalation of conflict in northern Syria , on tackle security threat , include the threat from terrorism , and on the destruction of chemical weapon . we be also support economic recovery by lift some sanction and scale up humanitarian assistance . the UK , like our partner , impose sanction on Assad ' s regime to hold he and his associate accountable for their oppression of Syria ' s people . in recent week , the Government have make change to those sanction : we issue a general licence to support transaction for humanitarian activity in Syria , and last week we revoke the asset freeze of 24 entity , include the Central Bank of Syria , which have be impose to prevent Assad from use financial asset in conduct his vile oppression . we keep all our sanction regime under close review , and we target they at those who bear responsibility for repression and human right abuse . it be also important that we take step to support the economic development that Syria ' s people desperately need . the humanitarian situation in Syria remain dire , with over 16 million people currently in need of humanitarian assistance . we will continue to support those in need across Syria , where it be safe to do so . through non - governmental organisation and UN organisation , we be provide food , healthcare , protection and other lifesave assistance , in addition to agriculture , livelihood and education programme . since December , the UK have announce over £ 62 million in additional humanitarian assistance to support vulnerable Syrians inside Syria and across the region . in conclusion , this be a critical , fragile moment for Syria . the country face significant challenge as it transition after almost 14 year of conflict . stability in Syria be firmly in our interest . the UK remain committed to the people of Syria , and we will continue to stand with they in build a more stable , free and prosperous future . I commend this statement to the House . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . this be the first statement on Syria offer by the Government this year , and frankly , it could not have come soon enough . it be deeply alarming that , in recent day , we have be witness to some of the deadly violence in Syria since the beginning of this dreadful conflict . the opposition have be raise question , write and oral , about the Government ' s approach to Syria throughout the year , so it be with some disappointment that we have have to wait this long — and , to be quite frank , for these event — for a Minister to give an update . report that hundred of civilian have be kill in clash , include Alawite civilian , be troubling . the syrian people have suffer 14 year of conflict and decade of oppression . the country be now at a fork in the road , but these terrible event be a stark reminder that a well future for the people of Syria — for all group and all minority — be far from guaranteed . we should be clear that those who have ratchet up the appalling situation in recent day should pull back from the brink , not jeopardise that well future . the Labour Government have decide to establish contact with Hayat Tahrir al - Sham and the interim Administration in Syria , so can the Minister confirm whether the Foreign Office have raise this escalation in violence with interlocutor , and if so , whether the Government have clearly convey a set of expectation for how the temperature should be take down and stability restore ? can he also confirm whether there have be any direct engagement between Ministers and HTS leader at any point , and what be his assessment of HTS ' s response to this violence and the threat pose by remnant of the disgraceful Assad regime ? we note that the Government have announce they be lift 24 sanction on entity link to the depose Assad regime . do the violence of recent day change the Government ' s assessment of the merit of lift such sanction ? before the Minister lift those particular sanction , do he consult US and european ally as well as partner in the region ? be the sanction lift at the request of HTS , and be there plan to lift further sanction ? can the Minister also be clear with the House about precisely what condition , criterion and evidence be be use to drive these decision ? on the Minister ' s visit to Turkey last week , he say the UK be commit to work in partnership with Turkey " to support Syria ' s transition to an inclusive and peaceful country " , but what exactly do that mean in practice , and what do he see as Turkey ' s role ? on security issue specifically , can he confirm that there remain no change to the Conservative Government ' s very firm position on foreign fighter — that they must not come back to the UK ? what be his assessment of the syrian state ' s ability to counter any isis cell in the east of the country , and have he see any progress on secure border in the region and the prevention of smuggle people , drug and weapon ? the Government be right that Assad ' s chemical weapon stockpile need to be secure and destroy , and that need to be verify by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons . however , be the Minister confident these weapon will indeed be destroy ? we acknowledge that the Government have put more funding into the OPCW ' s Syria mission follow the fall of Assad ' s regime , but we still need Syria to meet its obligation under the chemical weapon convention in full . we need concrete action as well as word . turn to the humanitarian situation , where do the Minister judge the need be most acute , and how be he mobilise UK aid to ensure that it be safely distribute and be genuinely reach those innocent civilian in need ? with the reduction of official development assistance to 0 . 3 % , can the Minister confirm that Syria will continue to be a priority and that fund will be make available , give the security and strategic issue ? finally , on the transition to representative and inclusive governance , we note the launching of the non - bind national dialogue conference by the interim Government of Syria , but do the Minister believe that this process will yield the kind of result we all want for the people of Syria , and have he discuss this through the channel he have establish with the interim Government ? I will try to answer as many of the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s question as I can . as she know , we have have senior - level contact with the new HTS leadership . our Foreign Secretary meet the interim Foreign Minister on the margin of the Paris meeting . we have not yet send Ministers to Damascus , as many of our partner will . we keep these issue under close review . on whether we be consult the Europeans on sanction and other thing , the Europeans have take step on sanction slightly in advance of we . I can not remember the precise date , but they relax their sanction before we do . I can confirm to the shadow Foreign Secretary that we keep all decision on sanction under very close review . the 24 entity for which sanction be lift on Friday be very much focused on the economic function of Syria . as the shadow Foreign Secretary know well , Syria be in the midst of a very significant economic crisis — the syrian pound have lose 99 % of its value — and we want to protect the syrian people from the consequence of that crisis . the relaxation of sanction be very much focused on allow normal Syrians and humanitarian actor to get on with their life , but we will keep all further sanction under close review . the shadow Foreign Secretary ask about HTS ' s progress on border and counter terrorism and drug . she be exactly right to say that we must judge HTS on its action , not its word . HTS have make some very welcome commitment on a range of question . for example , we have see a welcome commitment from the new interim authority to work with the OPCW . the interim Foreign Minister have engage with the OPCW , which have now visit Damascus . that be to be welcome , but the shadow Foreign Secretary be right that action , not word , will be how we judge our Syria policy . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I echo his horror at the killing of civilian in Syria this weekend . I agree that this be a critical and fragile moment for the country . in a letter to I last week , the Foreign Secretary make it clear that the Government ' s policy be to push for an inclusive political process and accountability in Syria . this be , of course , exactly what be need to deal with the tension form by decade of civil war and brutal dictatorship , but what be the Government actually do to make sure this happen ? we hear about aid and the loosening of sanction . be this the full extent of their plan ? if there be more , can it be implement properly when we do not have an embassy in Syria and when our special representative have visit Damascus only twice this year ? my right hon . friend raise some important point , include about what the transitional Government will look like . and the answer be that all of Syria ' s diverse community need to feel that they have a presence in the new Government of Syria . of course , many Alawites , many Druze , many Kurds and many Christians across Syria feel very nervous at the moment , and we call on the interim Administration to do all they can through their action , not word , to reassure those community that they be welcome in the new Syria . as the shadow Foreign Secretary note , I discuss this with my turkish counterpart last week . I can confirm that we have deliver these message clearly and consistently to the interim authority , that we have raise the most recent violence with they , and that we be seek urgent clarification on the confusing event at the coast , which , as my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) say , be absolutely horrifying . on the question of a future british presence in Syria , I will return to the House when I be in a position to give a full update . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the report from the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights that at least 1 , 000 alawite have be kill over the past few day be deeply concern . this escalation in violence undermine Syria ' s fragile transition from dictatorial rule under Assad , and it harm effort to encourage religious and sectarian tolerance . at this stage , it be critical that we understand whether the violence represent spontaneous clash between different sect or be the product of state - direct policy . this must inform the Government ' s position on whether to lift sanction to support Syria ' s development and reintegration into the global community . I note that the interim syrian Government have announce the establishment of an independent committee to investigate the violent clash , but this must be follow up with concrete step to protect Syrians of all ethnic and religious group and ensure they be represent in the new Administration , as well as action to bring justice to those who have perpetrate violence in this conflict . the international community must also work with partner in the region to support Syria ' s transition away from dictatorial rule , include by emphasise the importance of embed religious and sectarian tolerance , as well as the right of woman , in the new syrian regime . will the Minister update the House on what he be do to engage with partner in the region , include the syrian Government , to promote respect and support for religious and sectarian tolerance in Syria ? it be important , too , that this Government recognise that neighbouring country such as Jordan and Lebanon have generously welcome syrian refugee , but they face immense challenge in provide food , shelter and essential service . can the Minister outline how the cut to international aid will impact our ability to support Syria ' s economic development , include the cut to bilateral aid to neighbouring country such as Jordan and Lebanon , where many Syrians have seek refuge ? the liberal Democrat spokesperson pose many of the most vital question . we need to very carefully the determine the nature of the violence on the coast in order to make a full assessment of the most appropriate response . we consult closely with all Syria ' s neighbour — Jordan , Turkey and many other — and have raise with they the importance of Syria make this transition , which be vital for Syrians , the region and some of the global issue the shadow Foreign Secretary outline , whether counter - terrorism or drug supply . on aid , I can confirm that we will continue to play our full part in Syria . on Monday , there will be an international pledge conference on Syria in Brussels , and I expect we will be able to make further announcement in advance of that . the interim Government in Syria have suggest that operation in the coastal area be complete and that thing have now calm down , but human right group suggest that the violence be ongoing . be the Government ' s assessment that this be a spike in violence or a continue escalation in the security situation in Syria ? my hon . friend rightly point to some of the confusion around event at the coast . we be monitor the situation very closely and will update once we have more clarity . we be call on the interim authority to ensure that the violence stop now . I call the Father of the House . the christian community in Syria be one of the old in the world . up to the civil war , it be about 10 % of the population ; now , it be down to 2 % . aid to the Church in Need have describe Friday as a " black and painful day " for Christians in the Latakia area , with Christians be murder in their car and in their home . will the Minister — represent , as he do , a christian country — call out the new Sunni Muslim Government of Syria and say that they have an absolute duty of care to all minority : Christians , Druze , Alawites or other ? I can tell the right hon . Gentleman , and my constituency neighbour , that we do , of course , call on the interim Administration to ensure the full representation of every one of the minority in Syria — Christians , Druze , Kurds , Alawites and many other . I thank the Minister for his statement and thank the Government for the support they have give to the people of Syria . the terrible event of this weekend bring home the vital importance of an inclusive process for all people in Syria . I be aware of the Minister ' s response to a previous question about our diplomatic presence in Syria , but be the Government also look at way we can increase our engagement with civil society in Syria ? it be not just the Administration with which it be important to engage , but civil society . civil society group want to carry out a number of peaceful initiative to build a more inclusive society , but they be struggle to get governmental and non - governmental funding and to have the right conversation . be that something the UK Government could look at , as we build a more peaceful and inclusive society in Syria ? my hon . friend have work on these issue for many year , and he be right about the vital role of civil society . I be pleased to meet syrian civil society organisation with he , and indeed separately . I be pleased to confirm to the House that we have be talk to a range of Syrians in Syria , include Alawites , after the event of the weekend . the Minister be to be commend for bring this statement to the House . he will be aware that Britain have be heavily involve , since we help to set up the Zaatari camp , in support the 5 million people in the surround country who we know wish to go home as soon as the situation allow . my plea to he be to ensure that , give all the other preoccupy crisis around the world , the full force of the Foreign Office , with its long history of engagement in Syria , do not get distracted elsewhere but be bring to bear at this time . I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman ' s many year of work on Syria as the Secretary of State for International Development and in many other capacity . I confirm that I and we will remain focused on event in Syria , which be of vital importance to the region and to the UK . we will continue to give they the focus that they deserve . I wholeheartedly welcome the UK Government ' s effort to support the syrian people on their country ' s fragile path to build democracy follow the overthrow of the brutal Assad regime . give the rapidly evolve situation , be the Government consider far boost their foreign aid support and spend in Syria during this fragile period ? as I say in the statement , we have provide £ 62 million since the fall of Assad , and we will keep such question under review . there be a pledge conference on Monday where we will be talk to our partner ; as my hon . friend know , not all the aid will come from the UK , so co - ordination with our partner be a vital component . I expect to be able to say more in the come day . I have a syrian family live in my constituency . the wife be from a small village in Tartus and her husband be from Salamiyah , a town in Hama . both of their family be still there . they be both part of a religious minority , the Ismaili community , and come from a very diverse area that have Alawite , muslim and christian village . the mountainous area around Tartus be currently be ravage by extremist muslim group , kill whole family . the area near the husband ' s family be prepare for an imminent attack . my constituent be terrify for the safety of their family . they be plead for an urgent intervention from the international community to stop the killing and to protect civilian . I thank the hon . gentleman for that move account . the family in his constituency be representative of Syria , which be a place of many different minority and community with a long history of work together . I confirm that I be work with international partner , include the United Nations , to do everything we can to ensure that the violence on the coast stop . the Minister paint an extremely concern picture of what be happen in Syria . on 9 December , the Government announce a temporary pause in accept asylum application from people from Syria , because of our hope for the country ' s future . in the light of what he be tell we , what conversation have he have with his colleague in Government about what should inform that assessment move forward and what it mean for people in our country ? the event over the weekend be still unfold . I be not really in a position to provide any further commentary on what they might mean in relation to other part of Government , but I will return to the House when I be . Russia have obviously be significantly involve in Syria previously . as part of the Minister ' s investigation and get an overview of what have happen , will he look specifically at whether Russia play any role in these event , particularly through social medium ? I will . I thank the Minister for his statement and echo his sentiment and worry about the escalate violence in the region . he will be aware of the chronic underfunding of health facility there , particularly maternity service and newborn care facility . there be worry report of pregnant woman lose their life as they be shuttle between hospital because of inadequate medical supply . what conversation be he have with the interim Government about the health provision in the region , particularly woman ' s health provision ? we have have initial conversation with the interim Administration about some more practical question around social service . I be happy to write to my hon . friend with further detail . the Foreign Secretary be on record as say that an inclusive political process that protect Syria ' s religious and ethnic minority be his top priority , but these attack on civilian and minority group have never cease , and they be increasingly frequent before this recent atrocity . how be that strategy of protect religious and ethnic minority be implement on the ground ? what protective measure have be put in place in the past three month to defend those minority group from further violent attack ? how be that be assess and monitor so that prevention can be put in place before they happen again ? it be important to highlight that the violence over the weekend be not what we have see since the fall of Assad . this be a particularly acute spike in violence . the hon . member be right that we must do everything that we can to prevent the kind of violence that we see over the weekend , and to understand its cause , the perpetrator and whether it have fully cease . when I be in a position to make that assessment , I will be happy to return to the House . the Minister mention the attack on Alawite and other minority community , where civilian be attack , kill and injure . will he condemn the attack ? what support will he give those minority community who feel incredibly under threat ? I condemn the attack . it will be absolutely disastrous for the future of Syria and its people if sectarian violence spread among community in Syria . it be in everyone ' s interest — syrian , british and regional — that Syria be stable and a chance to recover after all the year of Assad ' s oppression . I condemn they both because they be egregious human right violation and because they threaten the future of Syria . I congratulate the Minister particularly on his last answer . unfortunately , world event and crisis tend not to go consecutively . we have all the issue in Ukraine ; I understand that this weekend the Prime Minister once again will meet the coalition of the willing on Ukraine . can we ensure that the vacuum in part of Syria be not fill with third - party actor who do not have our interest or those of Europe at heart ? I urge the Minister to speak to his right hon . friend the Prime Minister about ensure that we do not allow that to happen , for the security of the continent . as have be say , clearly there have be malign third - party actor in Syria for some time . Russia and Iran have play a deeply malign role in Syria in all the year of the Assad regime , and we be glad that their influence be reduce . we will do all that we can to ensure that Syrians can stand on their own two foot without third - party influence , and that there be a stable and inclusive Government to take the next step for Syria . that be a challenge for all the reason that we have discuss . give the horrifying event in Syria over the weekend , do my hon . friend agree that the time for warm word from the syrian Government on protect minority have pass , and that action to safeguard religious minority such as Alawites and Christians be require ? if so , what more can the United Kingdom do to prompt those action ? my hon . friend be right that action , not word , must be the yardstick by which we judge the interim authority , include the interim President . follow the violence , they have make some important commitment about hold the perpetrator to justice , be clear that this be not state - order . we need now to see the consequence of those word in those coastal community in Syria . we will be watch very carefully . the Foreign Secretary write to the Foreign Affairs Committee last week about the importance of ensure accountability for crime commit under the Assad regime . today ' s statement in the wake of the violence over the weekend call on the interim authority in Syria to set out a path to transitional justice . have the UK ' s position on accountability for war crime under Assad change in the wake of that sectarian violence ? no , it have not . we announce a furth £ 240 , 000 to ensure that vital evidence in relation to the Assad regime can be secure and preserve so that there can be accountability . our attitude towards the Assad regime have not shift in the light of the event over the weekend . we be obviously all aghast at the death and terrible violence against minority community in the western coastal region of Syria , but in the past few week we have also see attack on Tishrin dam and neighbouring area by turkish force , include the bombing of area where there be civilian . what discussion have the Minister have with our turkish NATO ally about cease the violence in northern Syria , consider in particular that the PKK over the border in Turkey have declare a ceasefire ? I discuss these issue with my turkish counterpart in Ankara last week . it be a share position of the british and turkish government that we want a peaceful resolution to the tension in northern Syria lead to an inclusive government — include all the community . the development in Turkey be clearly welcome , include the statement from Mr Ö calan that the PKK will lay down its arm . we do not want to see Turkey threaten by foreign terrorist fighter from anywhere , include Syria , but , as my hon . Friend say , it be also vital that the violence in northern Syria stop . the collapse of Assad be always go to be a setback for Russia , but it be also always go to be a boost for the islamist opposition . even if there be only a 5 % chance of form an inclusive , democratic , stable Syria , the Government be clearly right to try to promote that , but they should also recognise that the real threat to we be chemical weapon fall into islamist hand and the Syrian Democratic Forces no long be able to keep under control those Islamists who be currently confine in camp . what happen when they be release ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the vital importance of safely destroy the chemical weapon programme in Syria ; I be glad that some progress have be make in that regard . we have increase our funding and co - operation with the OPCW and have be encouraging of those effort in Syria to start the safe and full destruction of the chemical weapon programme . we remain clear - eyed about the continue threat from ISIS in north and east Syria and we be conscious of the risk from those camp , as raise by the shadow Foreign Secretary . we remain closely engage with all our partner on those question . I thank the Minister for his ongoing leadership on this issue . our heart go out to the victim of the terrible attack and their family . do he agree that when we talk about a pathway to a stable and inclusive Syria , it be important that we and our ally all speak with one voice ? I do agree . we have engage closely with our partner and we have travel extensively to the region . it be vital that the international community , both in the region and beyond , speak with one voice to give the good possible chance for the inclusive Government that we all want to see in Syria . I thank the Minister for his statement and share his deep concern about the violence over the weekend . he mention the more than 16 million Syrians in need of humanitarian assistance and the pledge conference next week . will he explain how the UK can support a safe , secure , sustainable transition in Syria give the recently announce devastating cut to UK aid ? what be his assessment of the security implication of those cut in Syria and more broadly ? I do not want to sound unduly cheery give the stage of economic crisis in Syria , but in many respect access to Syria for humanitarian aid have get easy since the fall of Assad , so our aid programme be able to make a difference . we have £ 62 million — that be not a small number — make a real difference to save life . we will be able to say a little more about how much far we can go on provide aid into the future at the Brussels conference , where it will be really important that we talk with our partner , too . the transitional Government have obliquely refer to what they call foreign party in the coastal region of Syria , but give Iran and Russia ' s long - stand alliance with Assad and the Alawites , it be not difficult to understand who be be refer to . give the current uncertainty , will the Government be very circumspect about who they share intelligence , information and datum regard the region with , give where it may well end up ? I will not comment unduly on intelligence matter in this Chamber but , as I have say , we will look very carefully at the involvement of third party in Syria in recent day . Syria have be , and will continue to be , an incubator of terrorist threat , not just to the region but more widely . what work be the Government do with ally to contain and degrade that threat ? the terrorist threat that emerge from Syria be very high on the agenda of this Government . we have be talk with our partner in the region , with our american colleague and with many other about what we can do to ensure that , in this period of transition and uncertainty , ISIS be not able to take advantage . I thank the Minister for come to the House and make what be a very important statement today . be he able to make any comment on the continue presence of foreign troop in Syria ? russian , turkish , american and israeli force be presently occupy at least the demilitarise zone just beyond the Golan height . what pressure be be apply for the withdrawal of those force and the cessation of their military activity within Syria , to give Syria an opportunity to bring this appalling period to a conclusion , hopefully with peace and justice in the future ? the right hon . Gentleman be knowledgeable on these issue and , as he say , there be a range of different military force in Syria , under different auspex . when there be a new , full syrian Government , it will be for they to decide which force should be in their country . let I be clear about the british position . we have be of the view for a long time that the russian and iranian presence be malign . it will be for the new authority to work out whether they be prepared to accept a continued russian presence , give all the damage that that russian presence have do to the Syrians . in relation to the israeli presence in the country , to which he allude , we have have assurance from the Israelis that that presence will be temporary , and we expect they to stick to that . like the Minister , I be appal by the event in Syria this weekend . the killing show that the international community need to be more involved in Syria . please will the Government consider push for a United Nations assistance mission to support a transitional government , so that all Syrians can be protect ? I have be in contact with Geir Pedersen , the senior UN envoy in Syria , and there be ongoing discussion about what far support the United Nations might be able to provide to Syria . we will keep the House update as they develop . on 11 December , the Home Secretary give a statement to the House on border security and collaboration , follow the meeting of the Calais Group just after the collapse of the Assad regime . I make the point during that statement that it be critical that there should be safe route to asylum for the most vulnerable , and the event of the past few day illustrate exactly why that need to be the case . be there safe route to asylum for people ? if there be not , will the Minister undertake to raise this directly with his colleague in the Home Department ? as I say in answer to a previous question , we will make a close assessment of the development in the coastal area . at the moment the violence appear to be isolate to that area , but we will keep it under close review . I thank the Minister for the statement . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I express my concern about the slaughter of Christians , Druze and Alawites in Syria . before the civil war in 2011 , Syria be home to approximately 1 . 5 million Christians . by 2022 , tragically , that number have dwindle to around 300 , 000 . today , there be even few under the new regime . give these horrify development , will the Minister review the plan £ 50 million of aid prepare for Syria in the light of the refusal of the interim syrian Government to address the ethnic cleansing of Christians ? will the Government ensure that aid be deliver on the ground through reputable charitable group , rather than those turn a blind eye to christian persecution ? as I say before , we condemn any sectarian attack and any action to stoke intercommunal tension within Syria . Syria have long benefit from its many minority and its great diversity , and that be what we want to see in its future . we have give £ 62 million since the fall of Assad . we monitor that closely to ensure that it go , as the hon . Gentleman say , through reliable channel with proper control to ensure that there be no misuse . an arab proverb go , " well a hundred day of tyranny than one day of anarchy . " we see the result of that anarchy over the weekend with potentially over 1 , 500 civilian kill . would the Government support a well - resource , integrate United Nations group with a beef - up mandate , and potentially a new syrian envoy familiar with the country and who speak Arabic , to help resolve the issue ? as I say in response to a previous question , we be in discussion about what a UN role could be in a future Syria . I will not comment too much on what personnel might staff it . be the delisting of 24 institution from sanction on Friday the product of engagement with the interim Government ? if so , in the light of the gruesome mass murder of Saturday , be that decision premature ? it be true that the interim Administration be ask for sanction relaxation , but I want to draw the House ' s attention to the economic situation in Syria : 99 % of the value of the syrian pound have disappear , and 90 % of the population live below the poverty line . this be an acute emergency , and we want to see , now Assad be go , Syria as a stable country that can stand on its own two foot . those 24 body be involve in the basic functioning of Syria ' s economy . we will keep all our sanction under review , as member would expect , and once we have a clear picture of the event over the weekend , I will return to the House . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in business question on Thursday , I speak about Tom Farr , the former leader of Harlow council , who pass away last week . — [ Official Report , 6 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 456 . ] I have subsequently be contact by a number of Tom ' s friend and have be ask to correct the record . Tom be not a secondary school teacher , but a social worker who work with young people with disability . I would like to get that on the record . that have be correct well . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your guidance on how I may get a response to correspondence I have send to Departments on behalf of my constituent , in particular his Majesty ' s Treasury . I be go to raise a case that have not be answer since August 2024 , but coincidentally I receive a response this morning . but I would like to raise a case on behalf of a small business that I write to the Treasury about in December . there have be no answer since December . I chase the Department on 12 February and be tell that a response would be with I when they could possibly get it to I . I have still not have a response . the issue I have raise with the Treasury be important one for a small business in my constituency that be be affect by this Government ' s adverse policy . how do I get an answer for my constituent from the Treasury , and how should I take this forward ? first , I thank the hon . member for give I notice of the point of order . the Chair be not responsible for ministerial correspondence , but the hon . Member have certainly put his comment on the record . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note they . I will be quite honest : as the Speaker of the House , I be very disappointed when department do not answer all member , whichever side of the House they be from . department be do the casework on behalf of Members . the least we can expect be a reply on time . if there be no further action , the hon . Member should come back . I will certainly be speak with the Leader of the House and the Whips of the party to ensure that those reply come on time . it be totally unacceptable . crime and Policing Bill Second reading [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Women and Equalities Committee , tackle non - consensual intimate image abuse , HC 336 ; correspondence from the Minister of State for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention to the Home Affairs Committee , on the Crime and Policing Bill , report to the House on 27 February 2025 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Crime and Policing Bill will make our street safe , put neighbourhood police back at the heart of community after year of neglect , give law enforcement the power it need to protect the public and tackle the most serious violence , help community to take back their town centre from thief and thug , and support the Government ' s safe street mission — a mission for the whole country — to halve knife crime and violence against woman and girl in a decade and to rebuild confidence in police and the criminal justice system by tackle the local crime that most undermine our community . across our country , we have strong community , a british tradition of respect for the rule of law and for each other , and a british policing tradition that go back to Peel of police by consent , with the police embed in community and resident pull together to prevent and tackle crime . yet , in recent year those tradition have become badly fray . too many town centre , neighbourhood and public space be plague by antisocial behaviour , and shoplifting and street theft have soar , while neighbourhood police have be heavily cut back . too many family be force to endure the agony of an empty chair at the dinner table night after night , have lose a love one to knife crime , but it be easy than ever for child to get hold of lethal weapon online . there be barely any penalty for gang who recruit child into crime — they get away with it . too many woman and girl still face stalk , spiking , violence and abuse , and feel unsafe on the street and in their home , even now , nearly 50 year on from the first Reclaim the Night marche in Leeds . too many child still experience sexual abuse and exploitation — include by groom network on the street and online — and online abuse be get bad and bad , yet the child protection reform that we and other call for 10 year ago be still not in place . trust in the police be undermine by vet failure and abuse of power , but the action promise several year ago to raise standard be still not in place . across the country , too many of we just hear the same thing : people do not see the police on the street any more , they worry that respect for law and order have disappear , and they fear that if something go wrong , no one will come and nothing will be do . that be why it be time for change and for the measure that we be set out in the Bill . safety and security be the bedrock of opportunity and the underpinning of every strong community . the safe street mission be at the heart of our plan for change , because everyone have the right to live in freedom from fear . the right hon . Lady make an important point about neighbourhood police . do she agree that local police station should be integral to this plan ? local police station be a matter for local force , but they can be a central part of neighbourhood policing , which , sadly , have be heavily cut back in recent year . in fact , in many area of the country , neighbourhood policing have be cut by a third or nearly half . at the heart of the Government ' s plan be rebuild neighbourhood police . we plan to put 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer back on the beat over the course of this Parliament , kick - start with £ 200 million of funding in the next financial year . we will reverse the damage do by the Conservative Government through year of cut to community police . there be half as many pcso as there be 14 year ago , and many thousand few neighbourhood police officer . some 54 % of people say that they never see an officer on the beat — that figure have double since 2010 , as too many neighbourhood police have just disappear . rise — rise — I will give way first to my hon . friend and then to the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . a report by Harlow council in 2023 state that few than half of resident in Harlow feel safe go outside after dark . do my right hon . friend see the neighbourhood policing guarantee as part of the way of solve that problem ? my hon . friend be right : neighbourhood policing be crucial , but neighbourhood police team have be decimate , and even those that remain be often abstract or merge with other team . that have be deeply damaging . it be crucial to get those neighbourhood police back on the street , back into our town centre , and back into our community . I give way to the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , who I hope will apologise for the scale of cut that his party ' s government bring in . the right hon . Lady mention 13 , 000 neighbourhood police , but 3 , 000 of those will be new warrant officer ; I believe that 3 , 000 will be operational police officer bring back from other place . when will police force find out what their share of those police officer will be ? how will the 3 , 000 officer currently in other role be reassign , give that operational matter be the responsibility of chief constable , not the Home Secretary ? we have start with £ 200 million of funding for the next financial year to kick - start the drive to put 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer back on the beat . already , police force have be work with the Home Office on plan for recruit new police officer and new pcso , and for redeploy exist police officer and backfille by recruit other officer to take their post . we will set out in due course plan for the next financial year and that £ 200 million . the cut to neighbourhood police over the past decade be even bad than we have think . the previous Conservative Government be so indifferent to neighbourhood police that they do not even keep a proper count of who be do that work . too often , they treat neighbourhood police officer just the same as 999 response officer or local detective team , and Home Office guidance allow force to report some of their response officer as neighbourhood police . the last Government do not have proper check in place , and as a result , hundred , even thousand , of officer and pcso be miscount . later this month , the Home Office and the National Police Chiefs ' Council will have to publish revised force - by - force figure , so that community can see properly what be happen in their area . this Government take seriously neighbourhood policing , which must be community - lead policing in our town and on our street . I thank the Home Secretary for give way ; it be courteous of she . on miscounting number , can I drill down on the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) ? of the 13 , 000 new neighbourhood officer that the Home Secretary claim she be recruit , 3 , 000 will be divert from the exist workforce , so they be not new , be they ? will she also confirm that her police funding settlement will lead to 1 , 873 officer be withdraw ? sadly , I do not hear an apology for the previous Conservative Government ' s massive cut to neighbourhood policing , which mean that many town and city right across the country see neighbourhood police number slash in half . community be badly let down . I be sure that the next Conservative Member to intervene will begin their question with a huge apology for the damage that their party and Government do . rise — I be really pleased that the hon . member be ready to give an apology for the deeply damaging legacy of his party in government . I thank the Home Secretary for give way , but I think she should apologise for not answer the question . there be record level of police under the last government ; 20 , 000 extra police officer be recruit . I ask she again : she say that she be recruit 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer , but will she confirm that 3 , 000 of those will be divert officer ? they be not new , be they ? still no apology for the deep damage the Conservatives have do . let we be clear : they halve the number of pcso , and they cut the number of neighbourhood police officer , probably by more than 10 , 000 , but we can not be precise about that , because their measuring of neighbourhood police officer be so ropey and all over the place that we can not be certain what the cut be precisely . this Government be commit to increase neighbourhood policing and pcso by 13 , 000 . in the first year , the neighbourhood police increase will be fund by £ 200 million . that funding be already deliver plan from police force across the country , which we will set out in due course , to increase the recruitment of new police officer and pcso , and redeploy some police officer , whose post will then be backfille through the recruitment of other new police officer and staff — [ interruption . ] conservative member should hugely welcome these measure , because they mean that we will get police back on the street , and into our community and neighbourhood , for the first time in year . antisocial behaviour be break community in place like Windhill , Baildon , Cottingley and Denholme . it be a direct result of the cut make to neighbourhood police by the conservative party . when I speak to local resident , they express concern about the misuse of firework , drug dealing , fly - tipping and the dangerous use of e - bike and scooter . will the Secretary of State reassure I and my resident that as part of the safe street mission , the new neighbourhood police will tackle antisocial behaviour in community like mine , as a matter of urgency ? my hon . friend be exactly right that we need the police back on the street . let we be honest : everyone can see this in their community . People know . conservative Members may think that everything be hunky - dory at the end of their 14 year in government , but community across the country can see the reality . as part of our neighbourhood policing guarantee , we need to get more boot on the beat , and we need more town centre patrol by officer who know the community and be trust by they to go after local perpetrator and prevent persistent crime . these be not outlandish demand — they be just the basic . we need a return to the Peel principle that lie at the heart of british policing , include the principle that the police be the public and the public be the police . we need trust officer in the community , work to keep people safe . the Bill give neighbourhood police more power to tackle the local crime that undermine and damage community : antisocial behaviour , street theft , shoplifting , harassment in our town centre . in too many area , those power be too often weaken . travel around the country , I and many other will have hear the same story too many time — shop owner who say that thief have become increasingly brazen ; crime drive by organise gang ; elderly shopper who say that they do not go into town any more because they do not feel safe ; people who have have their phone steal in the street , with all the detail of their life rip away from they ; and resident drive mad by the soar number of roar off - road bike and scooter drive in an antisocial and intimidating way . in the two year before the election , shop theft go up by more than 60 % . Snatch theft , mainly the theft of mobile phone , go up by more than 50 % in two year . thousand of such crime be report every single day , yet the police have be leave with too few power to act . too often , because of change make by the Conservative Government 10 year ago , they have be leave with weaken power to tackle those antisocial behaviour and crime . I welcome the introduction of a new offence of assault a shop worker . I have be in shop in Worksop where I have see shop worker who be absolutely fearful of what will happen next , and I have see food steal before my eye . do the Secretary of State agree that local shop must become no - go area for lawbreaker ? my hon . friend be right . the Bill introduce strong action on retail crime . I thank the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers , the Co - op , the British Retail Consortium , the Association of Convenience Stores and more for their determined campaigning over many year to protect shop worker . they be the staff who keep their shop open and keep our local community go through the pandemic , but in recent year they have have to face a truly disgraceful escalation in threat , abuse and violence . our party have campaign on this measure for very many year . through the Bill , we will introduce a specific offence of assault a retail worker , send the message loud and clear that these disgraceful crime must not be tolerate , because everyone have a right to feel safe at work . the Home Secretary have talk about neighbourhood and community , but I have not hear her talk about the rural community that I represent , and the rural crime force . what will the Bill deliver for they ? I be very lucky to be in Leicestershire , where we have a rural crime team , which see crime drop by 24 % in its last report , but machinery be take have a massive impact . can she talk I through any measure that be be bring forward that will benefit my community ? the hon . member be exactly right to draw attention to that . our rural community see different kind and pattern of crime , but it be very often drive by organise gang who think that rural community will be a soft touch . we have sometimes see that with GPS machinery for factory ; we believe that strong action be need there . the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention be work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council on a new rural crime strategy . I know that she would be happy to follow up on any specific issue that the hon . Gentleman want to raise . too often , crime be dismiss as low level , even though they leave resident in a living nightmare and corrode community life , so here be the thing that this Labour Government ' s Crime and Policing Bill will change . we be introduce new respect order that the police and court can use to ban repeat offender from town centre , or to put new requirement on repeat perpetrator in order to prevent they cause havoc in the community — for example , requirement to take up drug or alcohol treatment . currently , the police can not immediately seize bike or vehicle that be be use in a dangerous , intimidating or antisocial way . they give a warning and have to hope that they catch the same person again , but that mean that there can be two , three , four or endless strike against the person , and the bike will still be on the road . frankly , one strike should be enough . under the Bill , if the police find somebody use a bike or a vehicle in a dangerous or antisocial way , they can seize it straightaway and get that dangerous , damage bike off the road . we will give the police strong power to tackle the rise amount of snatch theft . we will all know constituent , friend or family member who have have their phone steal , and who could track it , maybe through find my iPhone or a similar service , but when they tell the police where their phone be , nothing be do . we will give the police new power , so that where they have electronic evidence from track technology on the location of steal good , they can enter and search premise without wait for warrant to be put in place . minister be also work with tech company and the police to pursue strong action on design out and disincentivise phone theft , so that we can go after the criminal gang make people ' s live a misery by steal phone on the street . we will take strong action on shoplifting . some 10 year ago , the Conservative Government introduce a new £ 200 rule , categorise shop theft below that amount as low value . that send the signal , which have shape the police response ever since , that such crime should not be take seriously . it become a Tory shoplifter ' charter — a signal to thief and gang across the country that they could operate with impunity , wander from shop to shop and steal away because nothing would be do . that kind of crime spread . it create a sense of lawlessness , and huge anger and frustration among the law - abide majority , who see criminal get away with it and respect for the law hollow out . this government will finally end the damaging £ 200 rule . do the Secretary of State agree that this be not just about the shoplifting , but about the fear it create in our community , include among our shopworker ? our local corner shop and accessible shop be there for elderly people who can not always get out to the big supermarket or other people who have difficulty do so , and shoplifting have put they in fear as well . my hon . friend be right . this be about the fact of the crime — the disrespect — but also the sense of fear that it can create and the huge frustration among shopworker about the crime that they see . I be glad to see some sign of a change in heart on the conservative Benches , with Conservative Members recognise how damage their approach to town centre crime have be . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , have write on Facebook that the police " must have ZERO tolerance to shoplifting and phone theft in Croydon … otherwise it will escalate . steal , even less than £ 200 , be illegal … the police must focus ruthlessly on catch criminal and always pursue every line of inquiry . " who would have think it ? if that be what the right hon . Gentleman now believe , why on earth do he not take the opportunity during the two year that he be the police Minister to scrap the £ 200 threshold , which send all the wrong signal to the police ? we do know one part of the shadow Home Secretary ' s remedy for the disappearance of neighbourhood police and the soar level of town centre crime . he have say that " the wide public do have the power of citizen ' s arrest and , where it ' s safe to do so , I would encourage that to be use … include potentially a physical challenge " , otherwise it " will just escalate . " put aside the intriguing suggestion that the shadow Home Secretary wander around with handcuff in his pocket , I wonder whether he have misunderstood the Peel principle that the police be the public and the public be the police . what that principle mean be neighbourhood police in the community , not leave the community to pick up arm because the neighbourhood police have go . as for Reform Members , it look as if they be too busy deal with their own internal antisocial behaviour to even show up . this government will be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime , something that have not happen for far too long . alongside the action on community crime , the Bill introduce much strong measure on some of the most serious crime of all , include the knife crime that be destroy young life — teenager and young people who do not get to achieve their ambition or fulfil their dream , with parent and family leave bereft . rise — rise — I will give way first to my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , and then I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) . last year , only four in 10 knife possession result in any formal criminal justice outcome . do the Home Secretary agree that by increase police power to seize , retain and destroy knife that may be legally own but may be use in commit a crime , we will reduce the number of people carry knife ? my hon . friend make a really important point . we need to prevent people — especially young people — get access to those dangerous weapon in the first place , but also to make sure that there be proper intervention , include referral to youth offend team . we must not have a system that simply shrug its shoulder when young people be catch carry knife . Knife - enable offence record by the police rise by 9 % in the two year up to last summer . many people in this House will know the story of Ronan Kanda , who be just 16 when he be stab to death with a ninja sword just yard from his home . he be kill by two other teenager who have buy , not just that sword , but more than 20 other lethal weapon online with no question ask and no proper check . it be because of the tireless campaigning of Ronan ' s mum Pooja that we have already launch plan to ban ninja sword , follow this summer ' s implementation of the zombie knife ban , and commission Commander Stephen Clayman to do an end - to - end review of knife sale . that review be publish a few week ago , and it be drive some of the new measure we be introduce as part of this Bill . rise — rise — I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for read Central , and then I will give way to the hon . member for Huntingdon , but let I just make a couple of other point first . the Bill increase the maximum penalty for offence relate to the sale and possession of offensive weapon from six month to two year ' imprisonment . follow the Clayman review , we will also bring forward amendment to the Bill in this House to introduce strict age verification check , with a stringent two - step age verification system for online knife sale , so that customer have to submit photo ID at the point of purchase and again on delivery . it will be a legal requirement to hand a package contain a knife to the buyer alone . I thank the Home Secretary wholeheartedly for her work on this important matter . in my constituency , 13 - year - old Olly Stephens be attack and brutally murder by two other boy . they have see hundred of image of knife online on 11 different social medium platform . I warmly welcome in particular the consultation that she have announce to look into the potential penalty for tech executive who fail to act responsibly in this important area . my hon . friend raise an important point , and he have raise the terrible case of the killing of Olly Stephens with I before . I know how incredibly devastating that have be for the whole community . he be right that the online system have make it far too easy for young people to get hold of lethal weapon . there be also the content that too many of our young people be see online . that be why the measure as part of the Online Safety Act 2023 to strengthen the requirement on tech company around material visible to child will be important , too . those be expect in the summer . my hon . friend be also right that we will bring forward amendment during the Bill ' s passage to give effect to our manifesto commitment to introduce personal liability measure for senior manager of online platform that fail to take action on illegal content concern knife and offensive weapon . we will introduce a requirement for seller to notify bulk or suspicious sale of knife to the police . we have see case where young people be able effectively to become arm trader , buy huge number of illegal weapon that should not have be sell to they and then distribute they in the community . Knife crime be a grave issue , and I welcome any measure that can help to reduce it . I have a debate next Thursday on knife crime , and I hope to see good representation from all part of the House in debate how we can reduce the number of child and young people involve in knife crime , whether as victim or perpetrator . the question I would like to ask be about knife sale online . some 52 % of fatal stabbing involve a kitchen knife , and only 3 . 6 % involve a zombie knife . I appreciate that measure be in place to reduce the ability of people to obtain kitchen knife online , but everybody have a drawer full of knife at home . how can we take measure to reduce that ? the hon . Member make an important point . we know there be an issue with young people be able to get some of these lethal weapon . it become part of what they want to do , and part of the search for status be to carry particular kind of weapon , but he be right that people can get access to dangerous knife in different way . we need strong prevention across the board . that be why the Young Futures programme we be work on be particularly important . the Government ' s commitment to introduce a Young Futures programme to prevent young people from be draw into crime be welcome , especially as youth service and hub be hollow out under the Conservatives . do the Home Secretary agree that prevention must be at the centre of the mission to tackle knife crime in our community and our country ? my hon . friend be right . to tackle this devastating crime , we must address prevention , whether online or in the community , and access to weapon . there be also the response when young people be find carry knife , and the wide punishment and response as part of the youth justice system . there be the intervention to turn thing around , too . we must also tackle the criminal gang draw young people into crime and violence in the first place . that include draw they into county line , drug running and the kind of criminal activity that lead to violence , to the carrying of knife and to dangerous crime at a later stage . for the first time , under the Bill , there will be a specific offence of child criminal exploitation , because gang should never be able to get away with exploit young people in that way . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) mention kitchen knife , which be the main weapon that be use . will the Home Secretary look into the issue of pointed kitchen knife , which cause so many death ? exist knife can be blunt or round at the end if there be incentive for that to be do , and manufacturer can be persuade to sell knife with rounded end , as some already do . that be an interesting point . it have be raise with we by the coalition against knife crime that we have form , bring together campaign family and campaign network and organisation , and as a result it be be examine far . a range of measure in the Bill , along with amendment that will be table , make up Ronan ' s law . Pooja , Ronan ' s mother , have say : " I wish this be do year ago , and my son would be with I today . " we be take action in memory of Ronan , but also as a tribute to Pooja and all Ronan ' s family who have campaign so hard to keep other child safe . the Bill also introduce strong measure to tackle violence against woman and girl , and the abuse and exploitation of child . accord to the Crime Survey for England and Wales , one in four woman have experience domestic abuse , one in four have suffer sexual assault , and one in five have be stalk . those be the most traumatic and appalling crime , and it be high time we treat this as the national emergency that it so clearly be . decade after decade , we have utter warm word in the House , but too little have change . it be imperative that we take action , not just through the Bill but across the board . this be part of our ambition to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade , an integral part of the safe street mission , because no one should live in fear . those of we who represent Northern Ireland constituency be very pleased to know about the 51 clause that will affect Northern Ireland through a legislative consent motion . it be important to recognise the benefit that that will have not just here , but in Northern Ireland . however , there be one or two other that we might like to see in the future . have the Home Secretary have an opportunity to speak to the policing and justice Minister in Northern Ireland about that ? we have have discussion with Northern Ireland Ministers , and I be happy for they to continue . I be very conscious of the time , and I know that many member wish to speak , so I want to make some progress now . through the Bill we will protect people well by make stalk protection order more widely available and introduce a new criminal offence of administer a harmful substance , for instance by spike . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) have long campaign for our measure to strengthen the management of offender in the community and introduce enhanced notification requirement for register sex offender , as well as a bar on their change their name when there be a risk of sexual harm . we be also take strong measure to protect our child , which be one of the most fundamental responsibility of all . the Bill will create a new duty to report child sexual abuse , back up by criminal sanction for those who seek to cover up abuse by prevent or deter someone from carry out the duty . that be recommend by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and the Prime Minister and I both call for it more than a decade ago . the Bill will make groom an aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offender , because these be the most vile and damaging of crime , and will introduce new criminal offence to combat the use of artificial intelligence technology in the making or sharing of child sexual abuse material , and strong action against those who organise groom online , where the scale of abuse and crime be increase steeply . I thank the Secretary of State greatly for give way . I recognise what clause 45 to 54 say about the mandatory duty in England to report child sexual abuse , and I wonder if I might draw her attention to the fact that there be exception date back to 1603 , under canon law , for confession relate to treason . there be also precedent in section 38b of the Terrorism Act 2000 , relate to terrorism , which cover faith leader . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we might help the various church , faith leader and volunteer in England to make sure that they mandatorily report when they come across this stuff in confession ? the Policing Minister be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss the detail . it be imperative that all institution and organisation across community take responsibility for tackle these appalling and damaging crime . we be also introduce measure around national security , include a new youth diversion order to help manage the increase number of young people be investigate or arrest for terrorism - relate activity . counter - terror police have say that their case load of young people have treble in just three year , and more action be need . there be further measure , which I be sure we will discuss later in this debate and in Committee , to strengthen standard in police and ensure that chief officer and local policing board have the right to appeal the result of misconduct board to police appeal tribunal , to make sure that those who be not fit to serve can be remove from police and that the standard of police officer , who do an incredible job across the country , can be maintain . on accountability , we will bring forward amendment to establish a presumption that firearm officer who be charge with offence relate to , and commit during , their duty will have their anonymity preserve during the court process so that we can maintain their confidence , as well as the confidence of community , in the work that they do . safety from harm be not a privilege ; it be a fundamental right that should be afford to everyone , no matter their circumstance . no one should be leave to live in fear because of crime and antisocial behaviour in their community . under this government , safe street be a mission for we all , to draw our community together . we be put police back on the beat , introduce respect order and take action on off - road bike , shoplifting , street theft , stalk , spike , grooming and child abuse , knife sale , terrorism and serious crime . we be take strong action against criminal , deliver strong support for victim , restore respect for the rule of law and restore police to our street . ultimately , we be build a well , fair Britain that be found on safety and security for all . I commend this Bill to the House . before I call the shadow Secretary of State , I inform the House that because many people wish to contribute , Back Benchers will have a time limit of five minute to begin with . let I start by pay tribute to the brave police officer up and down the country who , on a daily basis , put themselves in the line of danger to protect we and our constituency . every morning when an officer put on their uniform , they do not know what they might encounter during their work day — they do not know whether they might be attack — yet they take that risk to protect we . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in express our thank and gratitude to those brave man and woman for the work that they do on our behalf every single day . when I be the Policing Minister a year or two ago , I be move at the national police memorial service — I think it be hold in Cardiff that year — mark the memory of the officer who have lose their life in the line of duty . I remember meet their family , whose life have be devastate by lose a wife or husband , son or daughter , father or mother . I be sure that all of we have come across such case in our constituency . I be think particularly of Sergeant Matt Ratana , who lose his life in the Croydon custody centre a few year ago — I attend his memorial service — and all of we will be think of pc Keith Palmer , who lose his life not far from here , protect we in Parliament . we owe they all a debt of gratitude . I would like to start by address one or two of the broad point the Home Secretary raise in her speech before turn to the substance of the Bill . the first point be about the question of police officer number , which she speak about quite extensively . I notice that she pick out one particular subset of police officer number , and I wonder why she keep do so . I think I know why : it be because the total of police officer last March — on 31 March — stand at a record ever number . there be 149 , 679 police officer , which be more than we have ever have at any point in our country ' s history . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? what an appeal choice ! I give way to the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) . the shadow Home Secretary be make an important point , but do he accept that , between 2010 and 2024 , the population of the UK increase and so do the complexity of crime ? I often meet police officer in my constituency and across Greater Manchester who be stress out and work very long hour , often cover for other officer . do he accept that the argument he be make be slightly flawed because the population have increase , the complexity of crime have increase and the amount of time officer spend on tackle crime have change ? as I say , there be a record ever number of police officer , but if the hon . Gentleman want to measure police officer number against demand , one of the relevant metric to consider — can I have another go ? I be just go to answer the question , if I may . one of the relevant metric to consider be the overall volume of crime that the police have to investigate . that might be the number that one look at in decide whether police number need to go up . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be just go to actually make the point first , if I may . accord to the crime survey for England and Wales , which the Office for National Statistics say be the only statistically meaningful measure of crime , between 2010 and 2024 — just to pick a couple of arbitrary date at random — overall crime fall from 9 . 5 million to 4 . 7 million incident , or a reduction of 51 % . so over that period , we see a 51 % reduction in overall crime , but an increase in the number of police officer to that record number . those be the fact . do the shadow Home Secretary recognise that the number of report crime involve sexual violence go up by 300 % under his government ? when he talk about police number , would he also like to mention how many police officer leave because of condition in their police force and because of mental health and physical health issue ? attrition in the police force be something we need to take very seriously . I be try to recall the number , but from memory , each year approximately 3 % to 4 % of police officer leave owe to retirement , and a far approximately 3 % to 3 . 5 % leave before their retirement age . a 3 % non - retirement rate of leave be of course much low than in most profession , but I be sure we would all like it to be low . the last Government start do work on mental health support for police officer , which I be sure the current Government will continue . let I say a word about the future , because have hit record ever police officer number , I be rather anxious to make sure — rise — rise — rise — I be go to make some progress , but then I will give way . I be rather anxious to make sure that those record ever number be maintain . the funding settlement for the police , announce by the Home Secretary and the Policing Minister a few week ago , increase by £ 1 . 089 billion , and they make a big play of that figure . however , when we go through the funding pressure that police force across England and Wales face and add they all up , include the £ 230 million extra that police force will have to pay in national insurance , the funding pressure add up not to £ 1 . 089 billion , but to £ 1 . 205 billion . the funding pressure in the come financial year , which start in just a few week ' time , be about £ 116 million more than the funding increase . there be a gap , and the consequence be that the 43 police force across England and Wales may have to cut 1 , 800 officer to make up that funding shortfall . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? the hon . Gentleman be show extreme enthusiasm , which I feel should be reward . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for give way . he make play of the number from 2010 and 2024 . as a former councillor , I can tell he that the ward I represent in 2010 have a full - time police officer and two full - time pcso . when his government leave office in June 2024 , the ward have one part - time pcso and be a third large . would he care to apologise to the people of Hartlepool for that disgraceful record ? I will not apologise for deliver record police number . if the hon . Gentleman ' s local force be not deploy those officer in the good way , he should take that up with his local police and crime commissioner . in the light of the number of member who want to speak , I ought to get on to the Bill . when I first pick up this Bill , I must confess to experience a frisson of excitement . the Home Secretary have be in opposition for 14 year — not quite long enough , but still 14 year — and I think that , during those 14 year , she must have come up with lot of good new idea . I pick up the Bill , excited to find out what new thing it might contain . but as I turn the page to scrutinise its content , a strange feeling of familiarity come over I — almost a sense of d é j à vu . I have see quite a few of its measure somewhere before , mostly in the last government ' s Criminal Justice Bill . the Government ' s press release , which they modestly issue on First read a couple of week ago , highlight 35 headline measure . I check to see how many have be copy and paste from the previous Government , and the answer be about 23 of they . two third of this Bill have apparently be copy and paste from the previous Government . now , I know the Home Secretary work closely with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and view she as something of a role model , but emulate her copy - and - pasting be probably not the good thing to do . these new measure — the spike offence , the intimate image offence , the duty to report , the new criminal offence of possess a bladed article with intent , and the new maximum penalty for sell dangerous weapon to under - 18 — be all good measure introduce by the last Government . of course , they would have be legislate for by now if not for the unfortunate early general election — [ interruption . ] yes , it be unfortunate . I congratulate the Home Secretary on use the ctrl - c and ctrl - v function on her Home Office computer to emulate so many of the previous Bill ' s measure . be the right hon . Gentleman aware that it increasingly sound like he be say that — on police power , on the measure in this Bill , on police officer number and on resource — the voter get it wrong ? that sound incredibly insulting to the public . frankly , an apology would be well . be he aware that , in Southwark , we have few officer at the time of the last election , which he say come too soon ? it do not come soon enough for my elector , who still have few police officer in 2025 than they have in 2010 . the Metropolitan police , as a whole , do in fact have record officer number , but it could have have about an extra 1 , 500 officer have its police and crime commissioner , Sadiq Khan , bother to recruit they . in fact , Sadiq Khan be the only police and crime commissioner in the country to miss his recruitment target . do my right hon . friend agree that the record of conservative police and crime commissioner be unlike that of some police and crime commissioner represent other party in this House ? in Devon and Cornwall , Alison Hernandez have oversee the reopening of 14 police front desk . perhaps police and crime commissioner represent other party might like to take lesson from that . my hon . friend be quite right . conservative police and crime commissioner do tend to have much well track record on keep police station open and deliver low crime figure . I want to ask the Home Secretary some question , and maybe the Policing Minister will respond to they at the end of the debate . some measure that be in the previous Government ' s Criminal Justice Bill have disappear from this Government ' s Bill , and I would be genuinely interested to hear the Government ' s think on they . one area that be conspicuously miss from this Bill be the measure on nuisance begging . the previous Government intend to repeal the Vagrancy Act 1824 use a statutory instrument once new replacement measure — contain in the old Bill — be on the statute book . I see that the new Bill , table by this Government , do not contain those nuisance beg measure . could the Policing Minister , either by intervene now , or in her wind - up speech , tell the House what the Government ' s plan be around repeal the 1824 Act — or not — and around nuisance begging ? of course , be they to repeal that Act use a statutory instrument without introduce any new measure , there would be a lacuna in the criminal law . I be sure the whole House would appreciate an update . secondly , the previous Government ' s Criminal Justice Bill contain a measure to compel perpetrator who have just be convict of a criminal offence to appear in the dock for sentencing , with a power to use reasonable force to do so . there have be some distressing case in which someone who have be convict then refuse to appear in the dock to face justice . that measure , as far as I can see , be not in the new Bill , and I would appreciate know the Government ' s think on that . the third omission I have notice so far relate to the new offence of assault an emergency worker — also announce by the previous Government , I might add . the criminal behaviour order for people who assault a shop worker be welcome , but the previous Bill , as announce , contain a measure that say if someone repeatedly assault a retail worker — I think it be three time or more — they would be subject to electronic monitoring : a tag . I do not see that particular provision in this Bill . again , I would be interested in the Policing Minister ' s view on that . I turn now to a matter that the Home Secretary make a great deal of in her speech , which be the change make in 2014 around shop theft involve good worth £ 200 or less . listen to the Home Secretary and Government communication around this matter , one might think it have cease to be a criminal offence in 2014 . that is , of course , not the case . shoplift good of any value , include under £ 200 , be and always have be a criminal offence , subject to section 1 of the Theft Act 1968 . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I be just go to develop a point , and then I will be happy to take intervention — particularly from the Home Secretary . in 2014 , it be change from be an either - way offence to a summary - only offence . either - way mean the offence can be try in the magistrate court or the Crown court ; summary - only mean magistrate court only . it be still a criminal offence , and people could still be convict and sentence to up to a year in prison for commit it — it certainly be not decriminalise . in fact , the Government ' s own impact assessment say that about 90 % of the charge for shoplift involve good under £ 200 and be try in a magistrate court . if it be ineffective , why do 90 % of charge relate to good under £ 200 ? the Home Secretary claim that this alteration will herald some sort of extraordinary change in the way shoplifting be treat , but I would respectfully refer she to page 28 of her economic note 1007 , which I be sure member present have all read — silence . paragraph 144 say that the central scenario in the Government ' s impact assessment assume that the number of charge , with this change , will remain constant . accord to the Government ' s own impact assessment , there will be no change in the number of charge as a result of this alteration . the Home Secretary point to this matter as some kind of silver bullet , but I be afraid to say that her own impact assessment say something very different indeed . the measure have potentially adverse consequence too . this be a serious point , and I genuinely ask the Home Secretary to think about it carefully . when the offence be make either - way , rather than summary only , lot of people who be charge will elect to have a Crown court jury trial instead of a magistrate court trial . a magistrate court trial , for a not guilty plea , be generally hear in six to eight week — it be relatively quick — but a Crown court jury trial could take a year and a half to be hear . the first adverse consequence that I would caution about be that , instead — [ interruption . ] I be make a serious point , so it would be good for hon . member to think about it . instead of those case be hear in the magistrate court in six to eight week , there could be a delay of one and a half year . I be sure that that be not the Government ' s intention , but that be what could happen if the change be make . the second adverse consequence be that if lot of shoplifting case that be currently hear in the magistrate court end up in the Crown court before a jury , valuable and scarce Crown court jury trial time that should be use for serious case such as rape , murder and grievous bodily harm will be take up with shoplifting . I understand that the Home Secretary want to send a signal — I really do — but I ask the Government to reflect carefully on the potential unintended consequence . that be a serious point , and I ask the Government to consider it . the change may end up have the opposite effect from what they intend . the Home Secretary raise one or two other thing that I would like to talk about , the first of which be knife crime . there be some measure in the Bill that be design to address knife crime . we will support those measure ; I be sure that all hon . member want to fight the scourge of knife crime , which be responsible for about a third of all homicide . almost all hon . member will have encounter a constituency case ; I will never forget attend the funeral of 15 - year - old Elianne Andam in Croydon . she be murder at 8 . 30 be on the morning of 27 September 2023 on Wellesley Road in central Croydon by a 17 - year - old perpetrator with a knife . I will never forget see the grief that her parent and her little brother Kobi suffer . I be sure that we would all want to fight knife crime for that reason . in addition to the measure in the Bill , which we will support , I would be grateful if the Policing Minister could confirm that the patrolling of hotspot , start under the last government , will continue in area where knife crime be a problem , and that the funding will continue . that could make an important difference . it be also important that stop - and - search power be use . in my view , take knife off the street be the most important thing . in London , in the past , stop and search take about 400 knife a month off the street — knife that could have be use to kill someone like Elianne . I be concerned that stop - and - search number be down due to misplaced concern about community tension . I encourage the Government to get police force to use stop and search more , and to amend legislation , include PACE — the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 — code A , to make the use of stop and search easier . I speak to a police officer in Croydon last Sunday , and he say that he feel that the police be worried about misconduct proceeding if they use the power of stop and search . I would like to make it easy for police officer to use those power to protect the public . I would like to hear the Government ' s view on that , but we be minded to table amendment in this area to give the police more confidence to use stop - and - search power to save the life of people like Elianne . when I be Policing Minister about a year ago , I provide some funding to invest in explore new technology to scan for knife at a distance of perhaps 10 metre — not very far . that would mean that people walk down the street in area where knife crime be a problem could be scan and , if they have a knife conceal on their person , it would be identify . about a year ago , that technology be emerge and I put the money behind it to develop it to the point where it could be deploy . I be tell by the company do that , and by Home Office official , that by about spring 2025 , a version of that technology would be available that could be use experimentally on the street . I would be grateful to know , perhaps in an intervention from the Policing Minister now , whether that work have be carry forward and whether that scan technology be ready to deploy . it could , I think , help to take knife off our street and save life . I would be happy to take an intervention now . indicate dissent . the Minister will come back to it later . it seem to I that the Government ' s good work in this Bill in criminalise the possession of knife with intent will be undermine if the police have to wait for someone to take out the knife and commit an attack before they can discover whether they have a knife . surely , if there be a separate offence arise from mere possession , as my right hon . Friend say , it be particularly important to enable the police to discover that someone possess that knife before they have have a chance to do harm with it . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . if we be to prosecute these offence , put more potential perpetrator in prison and , critically , protect the public , we need to detect more of the knife that be routinely carry on our city ' street . that mean more stop and search and the use of knife - scan technology of the kind I just describe to identify those knife before they be use . my right hon . friend put it very powerfully . the opposition may also be minded to table amendment on the setting up of a statutory national inquiry into rape gang . for some reason the Government have only set up local inquiry in five area . some local authority be refuse to hold inquiry , which be scandalous . about 50 town be affect , so inquiry into just five of they be not good enough . moreover , those local inquiry do not have the statutory power under the Inquiries Act 2005 to compel witness to give evidence . the chair of the Manchester local inquiry resign last year because , even then , public authority be cover this up . we need a national statutory inquiry , and we intend to amend the Bill to achieve that if the Government will not agree to one . local council and councillor , the police and the Crown Prosecution Service be all involve to a great or less extent in ignore or even cover up these terrible offence . we need to get to the truth . thank you for give way . we as a Government be take very seriously the culture of child grooming and gang . in your previous role as Minister for crime and policing — order . you say " your " — I be not the Minister . a short and sharp intervention , please . in the right hon . member ' s previous role he attend 352 meeting . could he please explain why not one of those be on child groom ? the hon . Lady will know that child grooming fall under the portfolio of the Safeguarding Minister who , during the Conservatives ' time in office , have dozen of meeting on that topic . I have multiple meeting on Operation Soteria , which be design to combat rape and serious sexual assault . I think that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be keen to move on to Back - Bench speech , since there be so much interest in this Bill . there be a lot of really good thing in this Bill that my right hon . friend have not mention , particularly around tackle violence against woman and girl , with the legislation on stalk . some of that work be carry out cross - party over the past few year , such as on increase the age of consent for marriage from 16 to 18 , and tackle force marriage issue , hymenoplasty and virginity testing , which I help put through in the last Parliament . do my right hon . friend agree that we should try to convince the Government to introduce legislation around first cousin marriage — a very serious issue — and include in this legislation some of the sexual offence that relate to that ? I support my hon . friend ' s proposal around first cousin marriage . the health implication be deeply alarming . we could take that forward in the Bill and put it to a vote of the House . lastly , will the Policing Minister provide an update on the use of technology to combat crime , particularly the use of retrospective and live facial recognition , which enable the police to catch criminal who would otherwise not be catch ? she know that I support that strongly , and I would gladly support she if she want to continue that work . will the right hon . member give way ? I have to finish now . I be glad to see so many familiar clause in the Bill . the opposition broadly support the intent of the Bill , but what really matter be delivery — make sure that those record police number mean that we catch criminal and increase the conviction rate . those police number and the result that they deliver be the yardstick by which the Government will be measure . I look forward to scrutinise the Bill as it pass through the House , and to table constructive amendment during its various stage . rise — there be a five - minute time limit . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I can not possibly do justice to the Bill ' s many need and well - craft measure in the few minute I have , so I will just talk about its effect on the justice system and raise a couple of specific concern . the Bill introduce a number of new criminal offence — I have count 27 — and make change to exist offence . the Bill be be consider at a time when there be significant uncertainty about how the criminal justice system will operate in the future . there be two reason for that . first , the criminal justice system be in a bad way . last summer , prison reach bursting point , and emergency measure be need to ensure that convict offender could be send to prison , rather than release . secondly , in December , it be announce that the Crown court backlog have reach a record level of 73 , 105 case , despite the previous Government set a target of reduce it to 53 , 000 case by now . in response to both those crisis , the Government have commission wide - range review : one on the criminal court , chair by Sir Brian Leveson , and one on sentencing , chair by David Gauke . both review be likely to have a significant effect on the justice measure in the Bill . the new criminal offence in the Bill will come into effect at a time when the criminal justice system be in flux . Parliament will be ask to consider whatever proposal the Government decide to take forward from the review . we be legislate to create a number of new offence , but it be difficult for anyone to know what their effect will be . those be both problem leave for the Government by the previous Government , but those difficult matter need to be address , as both issue be go on at the same time . I turn briefly to knife crime , which I mention in my intervention . between April 2023 and March 2024 , 262 people be kill by sharp instrument . Home Office statistic can identify the type of sharp instrument in 169 of those case ; in 165 of they , it be a knife . where the type of knife be identify , 109 be kitchen knife . in other word , two third of the identify knife use to kill people in that year be kitchen knife . there be a grow campaign to phase out kitchen knife with pointed tip as an everyday household item , and to introduce kitchen knife with rounded tip . pointed knife be much more likely to pierce vital organ and sever artery , and those injury be far more likely to be fatal . of course , there be million of pointed knife in drawer all over the country . the safe knife group , of which I be a member , support a pilot scheme in which point kitchen knife would be convert into safe , rounded - tip knife . the Government could encourage manufacturer to replace pointed knife with rounded knife and discourage the sale of pointed knife by create a price differential . they could also support the launch of a knife modification scheme to change pointed knife to rounded knife and collect more datum on the type of knife use in any knife - relate crime . that be now happen for homicide , but we ought to extend it . I be pleased to say that not all of that require legislation — we do not need to add to the weight of the Bill — but those be all matter that need consideration . I be grateful for the indication that the Home Secretary give early . finally , I will speak about something that should be in the Bill but be not : the law as it apply to Gypsy and Traveller community , who face many inequality and prejudice . they be seemingly sanction by the previous Government by the inclusion of part 4 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which give the police extra power to ban Gypsies and Travellers from an area for 12 month , along with power to arrest and fine they , and even seize their home . a High Court ruling in 2024 determine that those power be incompatible with the european convention on human right . the Bill be the first vehicle that could rectify that injustice . will the Minister , in wind up , indicate whether the Government will attend to that ? they clearly have to , because of the determination of the High Court , so the soon that be do , the well . the future of a very vulnerable community that be very much discriminated against depend on this . I hope the Government will , as they be do in so many other way , correct the fault of their predecessor . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Lisa Smart . there be element of this Bill that we liberal Democrats welcome ; there be also some that we would not spend this much parliamentary time on , and some that we raise a weary liberal eyebrow at , while we dust off the well - wear reason why civil liberty really do matter to all of we . the big disappointment for we be the miss opportunity — the topic not cover and the chance not take . we welcome the opportunity to scrutinise the Bill as it work its way through Committee and beyond . we will push the Government to go far in some area ; in other , we will suggest that they take themselves off for a little lie down in a quiet room , as they seem to have get themselves a little overwrought . the key thing that Lib Dems will be push for be a serious commitment to restore proper community policing , because without that , we simply will not deliver the frontline police that my constituency and community across the country need and deserve . we all agree that everyone should feel safe in their own home and their neighbourhood , but after year of conservative mismanagement , that be not the reality in too many of our community . the previous Government gutte neighbourhood police by slash over 4 , 500 police community support officer since 2015 . it should come as no surprise that 6 , 000 case be close every day without a suspect even be identify , or that just 6 % of report crime result in a charge . it be really important that we reflect on the impact of that under - investment in neighbourhood policing , and specifically on the cultural feeling of insecurity , and people ' s feel that crime will not be respond to . that have pervade every society . I hear that on the doorstep every time I go out . it will take a long time for we to get back from that . I completely agree with the hon . member that while crime stat be important , the way people feel about crime also be hugely important for all our community . the issue be feel acutely in constituency like mine . in Hazel Grove , in town and village such as Marple and Romiley , shop worker report that they face a real surge in shop theft . many tell I that they have no expectation that the police will respond . even charity shop have be burgle . these organisation just can not afford to absorb the loss . another persistent concern raise by my constituent be the blight of illegal off - road bike . I know that problem be feel in all our constituency . from Offerton to High Lane , resident feel intimidate by this antisocial and often dangerous behaviour . local officer tell I that although they do not lack the power to act , they lack the tool , resource and capacity to enforce exist law , so we will scrutinise the Government ' s proposal on this , especially as they relate to under - 18 . the new Government must return to the neighbourhood policing model , with bobby on the beat who be visible , trust and properly resource . any element of the Bill that do that will receive Lib Dem support . what else do we support in this Bill ? part 4 deal with the criminal exploitation of child and other , and it be welcome . part 5 seek to update the law on sexual offence . these part will of course need close scrutiny to make they as effective as they can be , but they have Lib Dem support . if this be a Lib Dem Bill , we would not be talk quite as much about criminalise those who climb on specific war memorial , and we would protect the important right to protest , rather than make it hard for this right to be exercise . we be surprised and more than a little bit disappointed that there be no mention in the Bill of bring in domestic abuse aggravate offence . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for the work he have do in this area . we all agree that domestic abuse devastate live , and that the criminal justice system must properly recognise its severity . too many abuser escape appropriate justice because domestic abuse be prosecute under general offence such as common assault or grievous bodily harm , which fail to capture the full nature of the crime . we urge the Government to back this change and ensure that victim and survivor receive the protection that they need and deserve . I be sure that my hon . friend will have more to say on the matter in due course . I want to be clear about what the hon . Member say a moment ago . be she say that climb on and desecrate our war memorial be acceptable behaviour , and that she would be happy for that to carry on ? that seem to be what she be say . I be sure that be not the case , but I would love to hear her clarification . it be always a genuine pleasure to be intervene on by the hon . Gentleman , and I be grateful to he for rise to his foot . what I say be that if this be a Lib Dem Bill — I look forward to one come forward in the fullness of time — we would not spend as much time talk about this as a criminal act . there be many priority for the Government , and I will talk about a number of measure that we be disappoint not to see include in this 340 - page Bill , at the expense of the issue he raise . for example , we have wait with bated breath for the new Government to crack down on water company that pollute our river with impunity . nowhere be that issue clear than in my community ; sewage have be dump in our river , and part of the Chadkirk country estate , a beloved green space in my constituency , be turn into a sewage swamp after heavy rainfall in the new year . the field beside Otterspool Road , which the council plan to transform into a well - keep community meadow , be flood with raw sewage . current law allow the water company to get away with that . liberal Democrats will continue to push to make sewage dump a specific criminal offence , so that water company executive can be hold accountable for the damage they do to our community . the Government ' s failure to reference rural crime even once in the Bill be unacceptable . I hear the Home Secretary ' s response to the intervention by the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , who be no long in his place , and it be indeed welcome that a rural crime strategy be on the way , but we Lib Dems will push for a commitment to this issue in the Bill . rural crime be not an inconvenience ; it be a grow crisis . the National Farmers Union report that the cost of rural crime soar to over £ 52 million in 2023 , with organise gang target farm machinery , vehicle and gps equipment , yet few than 1 % of police officer be in dedicated rural crime team . I hear that for myself when I meet a dozen local farmer at Far Benfield farm in Cowlishaw Brow last week . I clearly hear about the impact that organise fly - tipping and organise equipment theft have on farming family . finally , there be a gap in the Bill where a discussion of regulate or legislate for live facial recognition should be . the Liberal Democrats have be clear that the technology be a threat to privacy , be discriminatory and do not make our street safe . the previous Government push ahead with its use , despite serious concern from human right organisation , legal expert and even their own independent biometric commissioner . the police should focus on evidence - base crime prevention , not roll out flawed and biased surveillance technology . any use of it by the police must be transparent , unbiased and regulate . we can see police force come up with their own rule within which to operate . it be long past time for the Government to set the framework . the system be use be not biased . it have be test by the National Physical Laboratory , and the bias problem that exist seven or eight year ago have be resolve . the hon . Lady say that the technology be unregulate ; it be not . a Supreme Court case set out the parameter , and they be now enshrine in authorise professional practice , which be national College of Policing guidance . I do not recall hear a question from the shadow Home Secretary , but I be sure that he would welcome the matter be far clarify in the legislation . he say at the Dispatch Box that live facial recognition be not mention in the Bill . I agree . I be sure that we would both welcome scrutinise it , perhaps from different starting point , but end up with a situation in which our police force be confident that they know exactly what the rule be , and exactly how to make good use of any new technology come through . the Government and this Bill have the potential to deliver real change , but only if the Government listen . that mean a return to proper neighbourhood policing , to give rural police the resource that they desperately need , and to protect civil liberty . it be time for the Government to show that they be serious about prevent crime and enable our police to act when crime have be commit . all our community across the whole country deserve nothing less . rise — the time limit on speech be five minute . there be many area in which the british people have have to put up with decline and decay over the past 14 year , but the breakdown of law and order might be the most profound . victim have feel unprotected , criminal have go unpunished and crime have simply go unchecked . meanwhile , the law - abide majority have look on in horror and police officer have feel frustrated without the tool to act . I be delighted to support the Bill , which will start to turn the tide on 14 year of neglect . I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood police officer and put a name officer in every community ; to introduce respect order and real punishment for the so - call low - level crime , such as antisocial behaviour and off - road bike crime , that have plague our community because of the Tory amnesty ; and to protect retail worker , include by scrap the Tory shoplifter ' s charter , which decriminalise theft below £ 200 . I remember speak to shop worker in my constituency during the general election campaign . they talk about yob walk into shop , nick item off the shelf and walk straight out , because they know that the police would take no action . I welcome the Government ' s plan to create a new duty to report child sexual abuse , and increase sentencing for the monster who organise child grooming ; to crack down on knife crime and the sale of weapon to under - 18 ; to give police the power to seize and destroy bladed article ; and so much more — all within month of the Home Secretary take office . I urge the Government to go far , however , by strengthen neighbourhood policing , which be at the heart of their mission to take back our street . the increase power for police officer to tackle antisocial behaviour be among the most important measure in the Bill , but we must not stop there . pcso and local authority enforcement officer do vital work to support the police and be friendly face in our community . they , too , should be give power to deal with low - level antisocial behaviour and the yobs on our street . we can also make our street safe by introduce stand - alone deportation order for foreign national offender who endanger public safety . the Government have deport more than 3 , 000 criminal since take office , but often after several thousand of pound have be spend in the criminal justice system . I also welcome clause 105 , which require register sex offender to notify the authority if they change their name . that is , again , about help the public to feel safe and secure , as they will know that someone convict of sex offence be not hide among they , and victim will know that perpetrator be not repeat their crime somewhere and go undetected because of that ridiculous legal loophole . when we be elect , we promise our constituent that we would help they to take back control of their street . the first priority of any Government be to keep their citizen safe — at home , at the border and around the world — and it have be a source of national shame that we have not do that for the past 14 year . there be a lot of work to do to restore public trust , but through the Bill we will make vital first step towards protect victim , punish criminal and prevent crime . let I finish on this note . the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , say that the general election be unnecessary or regrettable , but my Telford constituent vote for change , and I urge the Government to get on with it . I will be as brief as possible because I know that other want to get in . let I start with a general point . I have sit here long enough — not today , of course , but over the year — to know that every Government come in with a criminal justice Bill , then another a year later , and then another , before the next Government come in and start with a criminal justice Bill . I will not get into a political knockabout on that , but , as member who have be here long enough will know , the reality be that there be always a reason why we need another criminal justice Bill , and so it go on . to be a little more rational about it , if pass law do the job of end crime , we would have manage it long ago . this be about how we deal with the thing that get behind the crime . the Centre for Social Justice recently publish a good report call the " Lost Boys " . it be about the generation , particularly post - covid , of young boy who have become dysfunctional with serious mental health problem , and who often end up on the street be suck into gang . the attitude and behaviour of those boy give rise to the violence and subsequent murder that take place on the street . put a knife into someone ' s hand do not make they a murderer ; put a knife into the hand of someone who have already be break in the wrong attitude — that be where murder and violence come from . I recommend that Ministers read that report , because it make staggering reading for we all . those young boy be become man . they will live in and out of prison , and violence , drug taking and drug abuse will be a part of their life , as will abuse towards woman . it be boy and man who be responsible for the crime . young woman and girl be a tiny proportion of the criminal — the problem lie with man and boy . that be critical . if we want to get ahead of this problem and solve knife crime , we must understand that crime be commit in the head and brain of those young boy , who be subsequently man , and the knife be only the final act . I say to those who recommend the rounding of blade , well perhaps , but a young guy will just go and grind that rounded blade into a sharp point and get on with it if that be what they want to do . nothing will get in the way of that . I simply make that observation . it be right that the Government be tackle assault on retail worker . I have struggle endlessly to get the police on to the street and to arrest people who be shoplift . People be not shoplift for a sandwich ; they be strip store of thousand of pound ' worth of good . it be a serious offence of antisocial behaviour , and anything more that the police can do to crack down on that be important , because it be the first crime that most of our constituent notice , and indeed fear . shoplifter threaten people in the shop and those serve they , and it be important that we get on top of the issue . I table an amendment to the previous criminal justice Bill on cycling and dangerous cycling . have that go ? I have also speak to the Department for Transport , and we need to sort out e - bike and those dangerous fast bike and cyclist on the road who commit offence . it would also help if it be make mandatory for all cyclist to have a bell , so that they could at least warn pedestrian of their approach . I take my right hon . friend ' s point into consideration . the point I be make be that we have have death on the street yet cyclist could not be prosecute for have kill someone , because we be still use a piece of legislation from the mid - 19th century to address offensive and wild carriage driving . that be not acceptable and it hardly ever convict anybody , so I encourage the Government to look again at dangerous cycling , because people genuinely abuse the Road Traffic Act 1988 and nothing ever seem to be do to they . that be particularly true for e - bike , which be very dangerous when use on pathway . even if people be not commit a criminal offence , they be cause major danger . antisocial behaviour be a big thing which our constituent notice ; they feel threaten by people who ride those bike on the pavement . it may seem a small thing , but it be not . I will end by congratulate the Government on introduce the offence of cuckooing . the Home Secretary will know that I table an amendment to the previous criminal justice Bill , and I be pleased that the Government have pick that up and put it into this Bill . there be big issue regard people who feel threaten by brutal individual who take over their house and commit criminal offence from there . in the end , some of those threaten people get arrest themselves , have have no control over that house . many of they have mental health problem ; many be stick in backroom and abuse themselves . have such an offence allow the police — I have say this all along — to move into the house if they have a suspicion that such thing be take place and deal with the issue straightaway . I congratulate the Government on that . the previous Government accept my amendment . hopefully , we can all join force . I have one question for the Minister respond to the debate . offender often use coercion , grooming and manipulation . the Bill refer to an absence of consent . do she think that an absence of consent alone will be good enough to convict people who have carry out coercion , grooming and manipulation ? that be the point I be slightly concerned about . I raise it with the Minister and I hope she can respond at the end of the debate . at the end of it all , a criminal justice Bill be a good thing . this be a huge bill with more than 300 page of measure , but I wish to focus on the extra power it contain to police protest , and particularly clause 86 and 95 , about which civil liberty organisation such as Liberty , Amnesty International and Big Brother Watch , as well as trade union , have raise loud alarm bell . I also wish to take the opportunity to recognise more broadly the dangerous direction of travel of the increase criminalisation of legitimate and peaceful protest in this country which , as many will recognise , be be mirror around the world . in recent year we have see the introduction of a vast swathe of anti - protest measure , include new police power that have be use increasingly to clamp down on freedom of assembly and expression . those power be be extend yet again in the Bill . the Tories ' controversial Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , the Public Order Act 2023 and the " serious disruption " regulation all bring in wide - range new power . those include allow the police to impose " condition " on any protest that be deem to be disruptive or to cause " serious annoyance " to the local community , and sentence of up to 10 year in prison for damage memorial such as statue . those of we who fight those measure tooth and nail have now see our fear realise , with clampdown on the right to protest peacefully . last month the aggressive policing of the national Palestine protest lead to the arrest of an estimate 77 protester . even member of this House be call in for police question , as be an 87 - year - old Holocaust survivor who be carry flower to lay for the dead child of Gaza . we can not underestimate the chilling impact that that heavy - handed policing of peaceful protest will have on our basic right and freedom . from strike worker to the national Palestine demo and farmer ’ protest , huge demonstration and protest be become more commonplace across the political spectrum , as people across the country and beyond feel that they be lose their voice in their workplace and the political sphere . instead of continue down that dangerous road , we should be take the opportunity that the Bill present to roll back some of those power , defend our civil liberty , and restore our proud tradition of freedom of speech , expression , and assembly . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I be not take intervention — sorry . in this country we have a proud tradition of stand up for what we believe in , but that have increasingly come under threat , and measure in the Bill continue on that trajectory . I hope that the Minister and Government will take those point on board and consider amendment in Committee to roll back some of the draconian anti - protest legislation and restore our civil liberty — move on which I be sure we can find common ground across the House . lastly , I want to turn to the provision in the Bill that will far criminalise Roma and Traveller community , and the impact that certain clause will have on Gypsy , Roma and Traveller community such as those live on the Tara Park site in my Liverpool Riverside constituency . in particular , I want to raise concern around clause 3 in part 1 of the Bill , which extend police dispersal power and , as the Traveller movement have state , risk lead to even more heavy - handed policing of Gypsy , Roma and Traveller community . as with the anti - protest provision in the Bill , we must see such measure in the broad context of the increase criminalisation of already marginalise community . as such , I hope the Government will go back to the drawing board and consider use the Bill to repeal section 60C to 60e of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 . this Bill be the first under labour of its kind for a generation . let we use it as an opportunity to protect our most marginalised community and defend civil liberty . thank you for give I the opportunity to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to thank Surrey police for all they do to keep we safe in Reigate and Banstead . I welcome much of what be in the Bill and I will not repeat what have already be say . instead , I will focus my remark on what I believe be require to tackle the scourge of commercial sexual exploitation in this country . it be easy for people to think that sexual exploitation do not affect they and that it do not happen in their neighbourhood , but it be more common than many realise . it be happen behind close door on very normal , everyday street . sexual exploitation , often of young woman , be an awful crime that destroy life before they have barely have a chance to begin . exploit repeatedly , day in , day out , those young people be treat as merchandise , with the sole purpose of turn a profit for pimp and trafficker . it be incumbent upon we to break the business model , start by outlaw the advertising of individual for prostitution . classify ad site , like Vivastreet , be rife with it . they be the Etsy of sexual exploitation , fuel sex trafficking by provide a convenient centralised platform for sex buyer to access what they want in their local area . buy sexual service can be as easy as order a pizza . although prostitution be legal , pimping , which be the provision of a prostitute to perform a sex act with a customer for gain , be not . there be often tell - tale sign on the advert , like the same phone number be use for multiple ad , that the woman be not act freely and willingly , and that they be under the control of a pimp , who be profit from their exploitation . such site have have year to get to grip with it , but still not enough be be do to weed out those advert . however , we must take some responsibility too . hon . member will no doubt be stagger to hear that such advertising of prostitution be entirely legal , because legislation have not keep pace with technology . advertising prostitution in a phone box be illegal under section 46 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 , yet when the same advert be online , it be not illegal . that be utterly absurd . in 2023 , the Home Affairs Committee cite evidence in its report on human trafficking that 75 % of victim of traffic for sexual exploitation be advertise online . the cross - party group conclude : " website advertising prostitution significantly facilitate trafficking for sexual exploitation . " I strongly urge Ministers to take this opportunity to close that loophole . there be a similar issue with the regulation of online pornography compare with offline pornography . our current law have not be update quickly enough to recognise the huge shift online and the need to apply the same standard across the board . a survey by the Children ' s Commissioner in November 2022 find that one in 10 child have see pornography by the age of nine , with half have see it before they turn 13 . the impact of that travesty can be clearly see , with 47 % of young people between the age of 16 and 21 state that girl " expect " sex to involve aggression . huge damage be be do to young woman and man by this damaging content , which normalise and sexualise the choking and strangling of woman during sex — illegal in offline pornography but not online pornography . although not illegal per se , degrading act , like spit on woman , be commonplace in online porn , so be it any wonder that we be see such disdain for and poor treatment of girl in our society ? if we be serious about tackle the issue and halve violence against woman and girl , we must crack down on online porn and ensure it be regulate to the same standard as that which be offline . the independent pornography review , lead by Baroness Bertin , recommend that there be parity of regulation between online and offline pornography , which I very much welcome . the main statutory regulator of offline pornography be the British Board of Film Classification . it be responsible for classify pornographic content before it can be publish and ensure it do not contain illegal content . any such offline illegal content can not be sell or supply in the UK , and the same rule should apply online . that simple change could be transformational if effectively execute and properly enforce , although I recognise the technical and practical challenge of try to regulate the worldwide web . I thank the Secretary of State for listen to my two ask . I look forward to hear from she whether she be receptive to accept amendment to ban online prostitution advert , and to bring the regulation of online pornography in line with that for offline pornography . when I be serve as a police officer , the demand on police be change rapidly , and they continue to do so . during my time in the police service , we see big increase in the reporting of domestic violence and sexual offence . neighbourhood policing be decimate as the police scramble to keep up with the huge increase in the reporting of these high - harm , previously hide offence that be now , thankfully , no long tolerate in our society . however , at just that time , the Conservatives be busy slash police budget . the police workforce shrink by 20 , 000 officer across the country , a statistic that hon . member will be very familiar with . less talk about , but just as important , be the fact that our already ancient technology system fall far behind the criminal we seek to catch . the police national computer , the database that hold arrest and conviction datum for offender across this country , celebrate its 50th birthday last year . the call handling system use by my old force , the country ' s big , be 40 year old last year . I welcome this Government ' s focus on policing , which be vital in create a fair country where everyone feel safe and secure in their local community . the Bill signal our commitment to rebuild neighbourhood policing , and to modernise our police service in order to provide the tool require to keep up with change crime pattern . I welcome the modernisation of our criminal law in the Bill . the legislation finally take stalk seriously , make it easy to tackle spike and provide common sense power to go after the thief use tracking datum . I also welcome the focus on shoplifting and antisocial behaviour in our town centre , with the introduction of new respect order for persistent offender , as promise in our election manifesto . every frontline police officer know that a huge proportion of crime be commit by a tiny proportion of the population . through a relentless focus on those individual , we can make small town , like those I represent in Nelson , Colne , Clitheroe and Barnoldswick , safe and welcome for the law - abide public once again . I hope the Bill be the start of a debate about what we want our police to do and where our service be well place to act . we need our officer to have the backing of this place to tackle both the high - harm offence , such as serious violence , domestic violence and sexual offence , but also the common , low level crime that blight our community . if everything be a priority , then nothing be ; if we can be clear - eyed about where the police should focus their time and effort , then we can set they up to succeed and we can rebuild the public ' s confidence that the police can keep they safe . I will use my time to talk about domestic abuse . my mum and I know all too well what domestic abuse look like , but I be sorry to say that the law do not go far enough to recognise that crime . currently , there be no specific offence of domestic abuse in the law , which leave many survivor without the respect and protection that they deserve . instead , many domestic abuser be convict of offence such as actual bodily harm , grievous bodily harm , assault or battery that do not reflect the full gravity of the crime . someone could be convict of abh for domestic abuse , but they could also be convict of abh for a brawl in a pub with a stranger they have not meet before . the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 go some way towards recognise domestic abuse in the law . it define it formally and create a number of offence , such as coercive and control behaviour , but it do not provide a specific offence of domestic abuse , lead to all sort of problem . for example , the Government ' s early release scheme , which they have to implement in light of the state that the last Government leave our prison in , let out as many as 3 , 000 people early . the Government make a commitment to try to exclude domestic abuser from be release early , but it be not possible to comprehensively do that , in the word of the Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , because people can be exclude from early release only on the basis of the offence that they commit and nothing else . well , there be no offence of domestic abuse in the law , so many domestic abuser — people who be convict of abh , say — be release early . one survivor affect by that situation be Elizabeth Hudson . her abuser , her ex - husband , hold a knife to her throat , among many other terrible incident at home . he be convict of actual bodily harm , and he qualify for early release under the standard determinate sentence 40 % scheme . be we to create a specific offence of domestic abuse , we could exclude those people from such a scheme . specifically , if we create an offence of domestic abuse - aggravate GBH , abh , assault , battery , criminal damage or whatever it may be , in exactly the same way that we have racially and religiously aggravate hate crime , we would be able to protect survivor . another advantage of be able to recognise domestic abuse in that way — which this legislation , in all its 106 , 220 word , do not yet do — be that we could properly cohort those individual . I ask the Ministry of Justice how many domestic abuser be in prison at the moment and what their reoffende rate be . that be very simple and basic . the response be : " it be not possible to robustly calculate the number of domestic abuser in prison or their reoffende rate . this be because these crime be record under the specific offence for which they be prosecute " — that is , there be no specific offence of domestic abuse to convict those people of . in the light of those challenge , the like of Refuge , ManKind , Women ' s aid and many more organisation — whether it be lawyer , academic or survivor themselves — be back my proposal to create a set of domestic abuse - aggravate offence in the law . I also extend my thank to those member on the Government Benches who have privately write to I to express their support for the proposal that I be champion and for proposal that I hope the Government will accept in their Crime and Policing Bill throughout its passage . we need to ensure that we properly respect and protect survivor in Eastbourne and beyond , and I hope that member across this House will work with I to help to make that a reality — my door be always open . our community deserve to feel safe on our street , in our home and in our shop . while I be refer to shop , it be only right to place on record the tireless campaign that USDAW have do to get a specific offence for an assault on shop worker . that just show the good of our movement . the profile , perception and presence of the police need to be restore . we need police on our street ; they need to have the power to do their job , and people need to feel safe again . our police station in Corby be close down in 2017 . the perception be that the police be go and that their presence be disappear , because all people do be drive through what use to be their police station and the profile that go with that . where something be formally open , all of a sudden it be shut . our dedicated response unit be move out at the same time , and all we have leave be a police hub on the upper floor of a public building that be sometimes open only two day a week . we have people on bail be tell to take selfie and send they to a number to demonstrate and prove they meet the condition of their bail . that be not good enough for the people of Corby and East Northants . many people have lose faith . why ? because for more than a decade , they have be let down . they call 999 and no one show up . they report a crime and nothing happen . they see criminal get away with it again and again . here be the truth : when policing be cut , crime go up , and everybody pay the price . thousand of officer be rip off our street , police station be close down , pcso be cut and entire town be leave without proper policing . that be not good enough for the people of Corby and East Northants . People feel like the system have give up and do not feel safe in their community . the Bill toughen up police so that crime have real consequence again . it give the police strong power to tackle antisocial behaviour by introduce respect order and strengthen exist power , as well as remove the need for the police to issue a warning before seize vehicle be use antisocially . the Bill be a key part of deliver the Government ' s safe street mission . alongside it , the Government will recruit 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood police officer , ensure that every community have one . the 2025 - 26 final police funding settlement also provide up to £ 19 . 6 billion for police in England and Wales , include £ 193 million for Northamptonshire force — an increase of more than £ 11 million . as I say , this be about profile , perception and presence . that be why I be not only urge member to back the Bill , but lead the campaign to bring a police station and dedicated response unit back to Corby . the Government have ensure that the money be there to use , and there be consensus in the constituency on the need . we have business line up to support we and massive support from people in the constituency , who have sign a petition for the return of their dedicated response unit and police station . with this Government and this Bill , and the funding that they have provide , now be the time for we to deliver . there be much that be good and necessary in the Bill , and I welcome the fact that 51 of its 137 clause will apply to Northern Ireland . I have some disappointment about some of the clause from which Northern Ireland be exclude — in particular clause 90 , which relate to the desecration of war memorial . we have have a spate of such incident in Northern Ireland ; therefore , I be disappointed that that clause do not apply to it . in relation to the all - important matter of child sexual abuse , part 5 of the Bill apply to Northern Ireland , with the exception of clause 36 . I ask the Minister to look at why that be , because to apply the rest without clause 36 be quite incongruous . in clause 37 and so on , we will rightly make it illegal to have a paedophile manual to describe how to make child sexual abuse image , yet clause 36 , which make it an offence to possess a child sexual abuse image generator , do not apply to Northern Ireland . how can that be right ? there be a logic that be absent there : clause 36 must apply if the rest of the part be to apply . I trust that that be an oversight that will be rectify . in clause 123 , we have hide away something of particular interest to many in Northern Ireland : for the first time , it will be an offence to put something on a lamp post or to have a banner that glorify a proscribe organisation . that be a good and necessary thing . I welcome the fact that that be the intent . the explanatory note tell we that that be exactly the purpose of the clause : it would , for example , " enable the seizure of a flag or poster which arouse reasonable suspicion the individual who display it be a member or supporter of a proscribe organisation " . that be good , but it focus attention on the failure of the Bill to deal with the inadequacy of the offence of glorification of terrorism , which be too limp and largely unused . we will arrive at a situation in which somebody can not legally put something on a lamp post or put up a banner that say , to use the republican mantra , " up the Ra " , which mean , " up the IRA " — that organisation that murder thousand of our citizen — and that be good , but under the glorification of terrorism legislation , they can say it . that hideous , horrible republican mantra , " up the Ra " , which be a chorus from a republican song that glorify terrorism with lyric like , " the Brits will never leave until they ' re blow away . Ooh ah up the Ra ! SAM missile in the sky , " be glorification of terrorism — of course it be . yet under our legislation , it be not define as glorification of terrorism , because a person have to be advocate that which they would emulate and encourage other to engage in terrorism . some might think that be the case . if we take the offence describe in clause 123 and make it apply to " that which promote the interest of a proscribe organisation " , we would have do the right thing , but that language need to be transfer across to the glorification of terrorism legislation . why should it be right for it to be illegal to have a banner that say " up the Ra " but legal to address thousand of kid and sing " up the Ra " , as happen every August in Northern Ireland ? that disparity need to be reconcile and deal with . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate on this incredibly important Bill . like many of my constituent , I welcome the measure the Government be take to tackle serious crime and antisocial behaviour in order to make our street safe . I pay tribute to the police — another public service that have be undervalue and underfunde for well over a decade . they put their life on the line to keep we safe and uphold the law . many measure in the Bill will directly impact they and my constituent , many of whom have become know to I through casework . when I have knock on door in my constituency , resident have tell I about the nuisance of off - road bike that have blight our street and , often , our green public space — our park — and intimidate the public . often , those bike and their owner be know to the police , but they lack the power to do anything other than give the owner a simple warning . I be pleased that the Bill would enable the seizure of vehicle that be be use antisocially . the other issue that I hear about most often on the doorstep be fly - tipping — the disrespectful fly - tipping that be engage in by so many organised criminal . a few year ago , Gravesham borough council start a fly - tip enforcement team . it investigate many people and take many to court . three year on , 386 community protection warning have be issue , we have put people in prison , and 50 fly - tip fine have be issue . that be incredible ; it be what should be happen across the country , and I be grateful that the Bill look to strengthen antisocial behaviour power to deal with fly - tipping . that be incredibly welcome . as a new MP , I hold many surgery — as do many Members present — and I have be shock by the terrible experience that some of my constituent have have to face . I pay tribute to they for have the courage to come forward and tell their story . I have hear from woman deal with stalking by an ex - partner who have change their life routine for fear of attack and , as such , I welcome the Bill ' s strengthen of stalk protection order . I have hear from a retire paramedic , Peter Sheehan , who be violently assault after simply ask people in his woodland to stop their dog tear up the forest floor — it be a simple ask . after three year of legal issue , the man who seriously assault Peter be give a two - year suspend sentence and fine £ 750 . the impact on Peter , who already suffer post - traumatic stress disorder from his work as a paramedic , be significant , and that money still have not be receive . we must let people who have experience crime see the justice they deserve . their trust in the criminal justice system must be restore , and they must know that if they call the police , they will come . there be consequence for crime , and this Bill be the first step towards back people , not criminal . there be much in this Bill that I welcome , because of course it be announce by the last government . however , this Government need to go far , and we will push they to do so . a major part of the Bill be its increase focus on neighbourhood policing , which be commendable . I have always advocate in this Chamber for great level of neighbourhood police on our street and more visible police in our community . I pay tribute to my own neighbourhood police team in Aldridge - Brownhills , who serve my local community day in , day out . they be truly locally base officer who care about our local community , and I thank they for all they do on our behalf . sadly , my neighbourhood police team will soon find itself without a permanent , dedicated home , because the Labour police and crime commissioner have decide to sell off the family silver right across the west midland . as well as sell off the police station in Aldridge in my patch , he be sell our next near police station in Sutton Coldfield . he have already sacrifice the next near one in Kingstanding — that building be go to become a Domino ' s Pizza takeaway . the Government want more police officer . that be great , but in the west midland , their own police and crime commissioner do not want to house they . it be unacceptable that police station across the west midland be slowly be phase out , diminish the role of neighbourhood police , all at a time when more power be be suck towards central Birmingham and the PCC headquarters at Lloyd House . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will not , because of time . that headquarters have benefit from a staggering £ 33 million - worth of upgrade decoration as a result of local community lose their local police station — include the former Brownhills police station — in phase 1 of the closure programme . surely , that be not right . I draw the Minister ' s attention to several write parliamentary question to which I do not believe I have receive a full answer — in particular , my question concern the funding of the propose 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer . while those new officer be welcome , as I have state , the Government have not yet fully say how they will be fund after the first year , so I would be grateful for clarity on that . it be imperative that there be certainty that those be fully fund new officer who will be add to base budget for future year , not a one - off Government expenditure , after which the local taxpayer will pick up the tab through an increase in the precept . the Government face similar question regard their decision to fund national insurance increase . once again , they have be circumspect in their response to my question in Westminster Hall and to write parliamentary question . it be very important that the Minister come clean today and clarify that the grant give to police authority to cover the Chancellor ' s job tax be not just a one - off , but will be add to those authority ’ base budget . as the Minister be very aware , if that be not the case , this will be yet another stealth tax by the back door by this government , punish our constituent . there be so much in the Bill that I would like to talk about , but before I conclude I will touch briefly on knife crime . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to halve knife crime , which come on the back of a series of measure pass by the last Conservative Government . sadly , in 2017 , my constituent James Brindley lose his life to knife crime in Aldridge . since then , his parent have dedicate their life to help eradicate the scourge of knife crime . they have establish the James Brindley Foundation to help educate young people across the borough of Walsall to turn their back on carry a knife . back in August 2022 , I be really proud to be present at the unveiling of one of a number of knife bin across the borough , fund through that foundation with help from local business and sponsor . James ' s parent have a simple ask , and I will be a bit cheeky and press the Minister on it today : will she work with her colleague in the Department for Education to see whether knife crime prevention could be consider for inclusion in the national curriculum ? my constituent demand safety , which be why the last Conservative Government fully fund 20 , 000 new police officer . we welcome the 13 , 000 new police officer , but my constituent want they to be fully fund and house in the neighbourhood . the Bill fail to give all the guarantee that I be look for . on that basis , I hope the Minister can provide I with some clarity when she sum up the debate . rise — order . we have a very oversubscribed debate , so it be unlikely that everybody will get to speak . I be bring in a four - minute time limit with immediate effect , just to try to get more people in . much within the Bill will bring significant positive change to community like mine in Hemel Hempstead , where crime and , in particular , antisocial behaviour continue to be a major issue . under consecutive conservative Governments , criminal get an easy ride . the Conservatives leave a great mess , and this Bill help to fix that . I could speak at great length on many part of the Bill , but I will focus on two that be almost always at the top of my postbag in Hemel Hempstead : antisocial behaviour and the current epidemic of shoplifting . I recently meet a couple call Gary and Margaret — not their real name — whose case shock I . for two year , Gary and Margaret have be harass , include verbal abuse , trespassing and the damaging of their property , by an offender who live on their street . the family feel unsafe and isolated , with the harassment worsen the mental health of their eight - year - old son , who suffer from severe anxiety and be too scared to play outside . they inform I that they have be in constant communication with the council and the police , but have face rejection from the local council ' s antisocial behaviour department , which state that they would not intervene due to the low - level nature of the antisocial behaviour . it be not just antisocial behaviour affect people in Hemel Hempstead ; we also face an epidemic of violence against retail staff , as other member have mention . I meet employee from the Co - op in Queens Square in Adeyfield , and I have also meet people from the post office in the same square . I be grateful to those from the Co - op for the time they take to show I their store , include their CCTV room , but I be shock by what I see there : an entire table of cd after CD , each contain evidence of shoplift in the store , with many people brazenly walk out of the shop , not even attempt to conceal their theft . what be more disturbing be what one of the store employee tell I . a shoplifter have be catch , and the store have manage to get the police and the criminal justice system to take the case to court . that brave employee have be to court to testify against the shoplifter . unfortunately , the case be throw out and the perpetrator let off and able to walk free . even more shockingly , the employee have to sit on the same bus home as the person she have just give evidence against . thankfully , provision in the Bill will make a difference for that employee , for Gary and for other who have be the victim of crime and antisocial behaviour . first , clause 1 and respect order will give the police and local authority what they need . I have in the past ask for Hemel Hempstead to be consider for a respect order pilot , and I hope the Minister will forgive I for make another pitch for that today . it disgust I that hard - work people in Hemel Hempstead pay for their shopping while other can simply storm out without pay . it disgust I that people in my constituency have to put up with antisocial behaviour on an almost daily basis , while the perpetrator walk away with impunity . I have be out with the police for ride - along , the purpose of which be to see at first hand the challenge that the police be face . I have have meeting with Police Federation rep , so I be well aware of the extra equipment and support that they need . I will continue to do everything I can to support those brave police officer face antisocial behaviour , and I be strongly in favour of this Bill , which I believe will give the police extra power to do more to crack down on these yobs . there be much more I would like to say , but much like our police force under George Osborne and Theresa May , I have have to subject my speech to brutal cut , so I will finish there . there be much in the Bill with which my party agree . in fact , many of its provision be write by my party in government , so it be strange to hear the more partisan remark from the Home Secretary early in the debate . after decade in which crime be fall , that happy trend have sadly begin to reverse . the Home Secretary note that overall crime increase by 12 % in the last year , but she do not admit that it be still far low than when Labour be last in office . however , there be obviously much to be do . the sentencing guideline publish last week explicitly instruct judge that a pre - sentence report will normally be consider necessary if the perpetrator of a crime be from an ethnic minority , cultural minority , faith minority community or be female , transgender , a drug addict or a victim of modern slavery , traffic , or exploitation . the guideline be clear that minority should receive less punishment than white people , especially white man . the provision about slavery , trafficking and exploitation be an invitation for lawyer to help illegal immigrant to escape the reach of the law . that be not the first official direction to tell judge to put identity politic before the once sacred principle of equality before the law . last July , the Judicial College ' s " Equal Treatment Bench Book " say that " in order to treat some person equally , we must treat they differently . " put that principle into practice , the bench book warn , for example , that the " family impact of custodial sentence be particularly acute for black mother , as far more black … family … be head by a lone parent " . similar attitude exist in police . the " Police Race Action Plan " , publish by the College of Policing , promise to stop the over - policing of black community and complain that such community be over - policed , but under - protect . the action plan note that black people be more likely than white people to be murder and to be victim of knife crime , but it fail to add that black people be more likely to commit these crime , too . order . I remind the hon . Gentleman that we be talk about the Second reading of the Crime and Policing Bill and its content . indeed . I find it baffle that we be debate the future of the criminal justice system and not talk about the erosion of the principle of equality before the law . disparity in policing and criminal justice do exist — order . I remind the hon . Gentleman again that , in order to speak in this debate , he need to stay in scope of the content of the Bill in front of we . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be go to turn to some specific measure in relation to police reform and the Bill . accord to the Government ' s impact assessment , the Bill will " provide an additional 13 to 55 prison place " , yet the Government expect to see 5 , 000 additional crime record by the police annually , result in 400 prosecution and 300 conviction per year . those number do not add up , unless the Government intend to continue their policy of release prisoner early . pass legislation be not a substitute for genuine and sophisticated police and criminal justice reform , and I will make some suggestion to the Government . first , we should abolish the National Police Chiefs ' Council , which represent centralised unaccountable power , and transfer its function to more accountable entity . the College of Policing should be direct by the Home Secretary to ensure that force focus more clearly on crime fighting . we need to reduce the size of the Met in London , with its national responsibility transfer to the National Crime Agency . the Government need to give police chief the ability to clear out fail officer and recruit talent from all walk of life . in the Met , there should be few deputy assistant commissioner and few commander . training need to be professionalise and well record , and workforce planning need to be improve . there should be well use of productivity - improve technology and streamlined process from arrest to prosecution . we need to reform the police grant to make sure that force focus on strategic threat . new technology mean that fraud , identity theft and cyber - crime will present a huge challenge . we can no long expect police force to recruit generalist officer , hope that they can all offer the perfect blend of leadership , empathy , strength and investigatory skill . instead , we need great specialisation . as I say , it seem crazy that we be debate this Bill without debate whether we remain equal before the law . there be much to be welcome in the Bill , but I hope we will see far great energy in the undeniably tough job of police reform . crime in Hyndburn and Haslingden be currently out of control . robbery have skyrocket in my constituency by 75 % in the past year , which be far bad than the already shocking 17 % increase that we have see across Lancashire . shoplifting have soar by 70 % , which , again , be significantly bad than the 23 % rise across the county . those number be not just statistic ; they represent victim — business owner whose livelihood be threaten , family who feel unsafe and community tear apart by lawlessness . indeed , just last week local business in Accrington see around 10 break - in . almost half of my constituent — 44 % — will experience violent crime . [ Official Report , 25 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) that be unacceptable , and I be speak here today because I refuse to accept it any long . just over the weekend , an awful video have sadly be circulate on social medium of yet another terrible incident of violent crime in Hyndburn . this government ' s Crime and Policing Bill be the big crackdown on crime in decade . we be take back our town centre from thug and thief and restore respect for law and order , give our community and police the tool they need to fight back . for too long the crime that have make Accrington ' s town centre almost lawless , the so - call low - level offence , have be ignore . when shoplift , antisocial behaviour and street crime go unpunished , our high street suffer , our economy decline , and our community start to lose hope . Accrington be once a thrive hub . it have be neglect for too long , but these new power for the police be key to turn that around . the Bill deliver real action . the police will no long need a warrant to search premise when steal good be track electronically , and there will be no more safe haven for criminal . respect order will clamp down on public drinking and drug taking , ensure that our street be no long place of disorder . officer will have the power to seize nuisance vehicle — such as the off - road bike I see on Friday tear up our park in Rishton — on the spot . crucially , the day of treat theft under £ 200 with effective immunity be over . stealing be steal , and criminal will be hold to account . it be also welcome that the Government listen to the campaign organise by the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and other shop worker for the introduction of a new offence of assault a shop worker in this vital Bill . the Labour Government be not just tough on crime ; they be invest in solution . I welcome the provision of 13 , 000 new police officer to ensure that every community have its name police officer . this be part of the Government ' s £ 200 million investment , which will deliver a 6 . 6 % funding uplift in Lancashire . enough be enough : the people of Hyndburn and Haslingden deserve safe street , a thrive town centre , and the right to live without fear . the Bill deliver that , and I be proud to support it . crime and police in London be at a crisis point . figure show that Government funding for the Metropolitan police have fall by more than £ 1 billion in real term since 2010 , and those cut mean that we do not just need more bobby back ; we need more beat . park police no long patrol , and now we see the prospect of safe school officer across London be move out of school , where they would be work with young people at risk of gang or county line , to back - fill neighbourhood policing team . community policing be in tatter , officer number be insufficient , and pcso number in London have fall by more than 3 , 000 in the last 15 year , from 4 , 247 in 2008 to just 1 , 215 in 2023 , which mean that almost three out of every four officer have be lose in that time . while we Liberal Democrats broadly welcome many aspect of the Bill , we be fundamentally concerned about the likelihood that without enough officer on the ground , community policing will continue to suffer . over the year , successive Labour and conservative Governments have introduce their own version of a crime and police Bill , but London nevertheless record more than 15 , 000 knife crime incident , nearly half a million theft and more than 24 , 000 case of sexual violence last year . it be simply common sense that if we want to get a grip on these awful incident , which undermine the very fabric of a trust society , we must restore community police . for Londoners , that mean sort out recruitment in the Met across the whole of London . it mean end the practice of abstract police officer from outer borough to assist inner one , and instead focus on recruit more officer to be visible , engage , and dedicate to protect the community that they serve . I can not see the many welcome part of this Bill be implement effectively in my constituency and across London if that be not the case . the Bill , in its current form , should go far and fast in restore proper community police , reform stalk law to support victim , and implement a meaningful public health approach to knife crime . I have speak about both those issue a number of time in the House , and have receive very positive response from the Minister . I be encourage to see that assault against retail worker be to be treat as the grave crime that they be , but these provision should go far to protect tradespeople from harm wherever they work . tool theft be a devastating crime that cost tradespeople million last year . research from NFU Mutual show that one in three tradespeople now live in constant fear of violent thief . some have be brutally attack with crowbar and other weapon , just for try to protect their tool from be rip out of their van . at a " Stop Tool Theft " rally in Parliament Square last month , organise by Trades United , I speak to many tradespeople who have suffer theft and attack , and hear that they would not now let their vehicle out of their sight for fear of become victim . there have be discussion of well measure on the part of vehicle manufacturer to reduce the number of theft , such as well lock and keyless system security , but the description of people literally cut off the top of van to steal the tool inside demonstrate that such measure can only go so far to stop the theft . however , these attack on tradespeople be more than just theft ; they be an assault on their hard work and hard - earn livelihood . it be time to acknowledge the escalate danger that they face and provide strong legal safeguard to protect their livelihood and wellbeing , and I hope the Government will take note of that in Committee . this Labour Government have make the unprecedented commitment to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . I know that my colleague on the Front Bench take it extremely seriously , and I agree with they that it will require a transformative approach . I welcome the measure in the Bill to tackle intimate image abuse , stalk , spike and the sexual exploitation of child , which mark the beginning of the Government ' s work to make good their ambition by give victim the protection that they deserve and need . in that spirit , I believe that the Bill present an opportunity for the House to tackle commercial sexual exploitation — a key form and engine of violence against woman and girl — in give victim of the sex trade the measure and protection that they need , and I intend to table the appropriate amendment to reflect that . the majority of people exploit through the sex trade be woman and girl , while the overwhelming majority of people who pay to exploit they sexually be man . extensive evidence show that most woman exploit through this insidious trade be highly vulnerable before their involvement and suffer acute harm as a result , include a disproportionate risk of violence . I know that my right hon . friend the Policing Minister , who chair the Home Affairs Committee in the last Parliament , have do some excellent work in this area . sadly , the demand for sexual exploitation be not be deter , and victim themselves face the threat of criminal sanction . the Bill give we an opportunity to change that : to end impunity for punter who pay to abuse woman , to take concrete action against pimp website , and to remove the threat of criminal sanction from victim to offer those vulnerable woman the support that they need . the Bill do much for victim of crime and abuse , and it be evidence of the Government treat violence against woman and girl as the emergency that it be . I believe that by strengthen the response to commercial sexual exploitation we can make significant headway in halve that violence . speak of highly vulnerable woman — whose plight drive much of the work that I do — I want to say something about abortion . the law underpin abortion date back to 1861 , before woman even have the right to vote . under that cruel and outdated law , about 100 woman have be investigate by the police in the past five year alone , and another woman be set to go on trial in April . the woman catch up in this law be very vulnerable and often desperate , but they be subject to the same law that apply to violent partner who use physical abuse , coercion or poisoning to end a pregnancy without consent . the law should be a tool to protect those woman , not to punish they for the effect of the abuse that they have suffer . Westminster vote to repeal the law criminalise woman in Northern Ireland in 2019 , but they remain in place in England and Wales . there should be parity in the law across the UK so that my constituent have the same right as my colleague ' constituent in Northern Ireland . abortion remain a free vote issue , and I recognise that any change in the law in this area must be lead by Back Benchers . my right hon . friend the Minister be commit to this change before the election last year , and member on both side of the House support her amendment to remove these woman from the criminal law . I hope that the Bill will give we an opportunity to revisit this issue in the same collegiate way . I welcome many of the measure in the Bill , particularly those concern knife crime and the protection of shop worker who all too often bear the brunt of antisocial behaviour . however , one of the big deterrent for criminal be the certainty of be catch , and reduction in police number nationally be as wrong as they be locally . in Avon and Somerset , the former conservative police and crime commissioner cut pcso by a further 80 last year — a massive 28 % reduction — and close our Taunton police station . [ Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I welcome clause 4 ' s provision on public space protection order , which I will come on to . I welcome the commitment to deliver 13 , 000 extra officer of various kind , but worry for I be the fact that my constituent have come to see I about their relative who be serve police officer . civilian have be replace by officer in uniform do the same civilian job , just so that it can be claim that police number have increase . I hope the Minister will make sure that that do not continue to occur with the new recruitment , which be very welcome . unless officer be see in our community and on the street , they will not deter or catch the criminal we need they to catch . last autumn , I be contact by business in Castle Green in Taunton , which be at their wit ' s end because of the antisocial behaviour in the historic centre of our county town . I contact the chief constable straightaway . I be really grateful to Avon and Somerset officer for the effort they have put in , as I be to the chamber of commerce in Taunton , which have raise the general issue of town centre crime and convene the safe street forum that I attend last week , but it be clear that we need to deter antisocial behaviour and crime where it be take place . that be prove by the fact that Lib Dem - run Taunton town council have just appoint a street marshal , who be on duty in our town centre . I spend the afternoon with Nick last Friday . he be do an excellent job and cover a huge range of work , from people climb all over the rooftop to retrieve thousand of pound ' worth of stock by simply ask the person responsible to hand it over . he must have be quite persuasive in ask the individual to do that . I congratulate Nick , our street marshal , but when I return to Castle Green with he , it be clear that the antisocial behaviour problem there have become intractable . I therefore suggest that we need to work with Somerset council to get a public space protection order , and I hope the Government will support its enforcement . too many of our great community event be mar by the antisocial few , and we need to tackle that . we need the public space of Castle Green , with its superb independent market , our famous Castle Hotel , the schedule ancient monument , which be the castle itself , and the Museum of Somerset where soon people will be able to see the Chew valley hoard of silver coin from the Norman conquest . I can not use those coin to pay for the enforcement of the public space protection order , but I hope it will have Government support so that we can ensure that key public space be not subject to conquest by those who would disobey the law , wreak havoc among local people , damage livelihood and tarnish the generally superb reputation of our county town . I promise my constituent more police officer in Stockton , Billingham and Norton , and we be deliver on that . I promise a crackdown on antisocial behaviour on the high street , and we be deliver on that . I promise a name police officer in every neighbourhood , and we be deliver on that . this be a serious Government roll up their sleeve and get on with deliver on the issue that matter most to the people to Teesside . I have visit corner shop pick up the piece after be attack by balaclava - clothe thug . I have speak to union and retail worker about the devastating impact of shoplifting , theft and assault on shop worker . our high street should be thrive , but too often they be overshadow by antisocial behaviour that keep family away . crime erode confidence in our community , leave people feel unsafe in their neighbourhood and make it hard for business to thrive , and nowhere be this more obvious than in the illegal use of off - road bike . for too long , these bike have be a menace as they maraud through estate , intimidate resident and be use by criminal to evade police . People have have enough . I promise to come down hard on crime , increase police number , and make our high street and community safe , and that be exactly what we be do . with £ 2 . 4 million invest in neighbourhood policing , Cleveland police , under our Labour police and crime commissioner Matt Storey , be deliver on that promise with 40 new officer on our street , increase the visible police presence in our community . they be use new tactic to stop crime in its track , deploy police drone to track off - road bike in real time . if criminal think they can evade justice , they be wrong . their bike will be track , seize and take off our street . my hon . friend be give an excellent speech about the challenge we face on Teesside . just today , I hear from James in Easterside , who say that in two hour there be not 15 minute when an illegal off - road bike , quad or e - scooter do not pass . do my hon . friend agree that we need to seize such bike , crush they and make our street safe again ? I be sure that James in Easterside will be pleased to learn that Cleveland police have seize 359 vehicle link to crime and dangerous driving since January alone , which be already make a big difference . crime across Cleveland be now at its low level in five year follow a more than 9 % reduction , which mean nearly 6 , 000 few victim of crime . this be what a proactive police and crime commissioner , a Labour Member of Parliament and a Labour Government work together look like . we be put police back at the heart of our community , and ensure that they have the necessary power and the backing of a justice system that actually work . we be introduce respect order to tackle the bad antisocial behaviour offender , and stamp out issue such as public drinking and drug use to ensure that our town centre be free from harm and nuisance . new offence , such as child criminal exploitation and cuckooing , will crack down on drug dealing . we will protect our high street by end the effective immunity for anyone catch shoplift good worth below £ 200 and introduce a new criminal offence to well protect retail worker from assault . Stockton , Billingham and Norton deserve safe street , and we be deliver . it should be clear to my resident that this Government and I , as their MP , be on the side of law and order . although we be see green shoot of progress , there be still much more to do to reclaim our street and town centre . the job be not do yet , but we be make real progress . together , we will take back our street and ensure that our town be place of pride . today ' s legislation contain welcome provision to address some of the behaviour that plague my constituent , which be allow to flourish under the previous Conservative Government . my constituent will welcome a serious and renew focus on combat shoplifting and antisocial behaviour , because the Conservatives decimate our police community support officer — in Surrey , they fall by 29 % between 2015 and 2022 — and erode the close relationship between the police and the community they serve . ultimately , the provision in this Bill that be intend to make place such as Esher and Walton safe must be back by a genuine and sustained commitment to community policing , and by give officer the time and resource to build trust and understanding with those they protect . in the past 12 month , arrest make by Surrey police for shop theft have more than double . this be not merely a case of officer solve a high percentage of crime ; in fact , the number of theft detect by the police have also more than double . surge level of shoplifting be utterly corrosive for high street in place such as Esher and Walton . they impose cost on retailer and may undercut resident ' faith in law enforcement and the ability of politician to get thing do , so I hope the Government will pursue this issue with urgency . the same be true when antisocial behaviour be not deal with . I have receive far too many email and letter from constituent struggle with the conduct of neighbour . in such case , the action of a few can impose severe strain on so many . as one constituent write to I , there be an issue of fairness : ordinary people come for a quiet life , have work to do and have be leave exhaust by noise , disruption and even threaten behaviour come from a small group . I recognise that this Bill accordingly highlight housing provider as relevant agency with a role to play in tackle antisocial behaviour . however , when people feel threaten , there be no substitute for recognisable neighbourhood police with deep link to the community . give the criminal sanction attach to breach of a respect order , can the Minister assure the House that community police will receive funding in line with the vital role they have to play in ensure that the Government ' s new order do not become meaningless ? finally , I will address the protection of police officer . the police deserve protection from abuse . the Public Order Act 1986 be enhance in 1998 to allow racially and religiously motivate abusive language or behaviour that be direct at emergency worker to be treat as an aggravating factor . however , there be a loophole in the legislation such that if this particular form of abuse occur when both party be in the perpetrator ' s private dwelling , it be not treat as an aggravating factor . that be wrong . it leave the mistaken impression that there be some circumstance in which the racial abuse of emergency worker be acceptable , and it fail to deter such behaviour . will the Minister therefore commit to re - examine that issue and explore the possibility of finally remove the anomaly ? I have share before with the House that I use to be a police officer , and I work for three force across England and Wales . that have give I a strong understanding of the challenge face by both officer and the public in tackle crime . it be partly due to this experience that I fully support the Bill and the Government ' s commitment to make our community safe . in my constituency of the Forest of Dean , crime and antisocial behaviour have a direct impact on family , business and community . it be crucial that our police force have the right power , support and resource to tackle these issue effectively . the Bill empower our officer , give they the tool and the confidence that they need to make swift decision and restore public trust . those be thing I wish I have have more of when I be serve . the Bill also address persistent antisocial behaviour with the introduction of the respect order , which will help restore order and send a strong message to offender . it strengthen measure against theft , allow police to enter property without a warrant to search for steal good that have tracker on they . another key aspect of the Bill be its focus on domestic abuse . in Gloucestershire as a whole , a third of all arrest make in January relate to domestic abuse , and I think we would all agree that this be unacceptable . the Bill include crucial provision to support victim and improve the management of such offender , which be vital for both victim and law enforcement . another important factor for I be that the Bill focus on tackle child sexual abuse . by introduce the mandatory duty to report , it will ensure that no case be overlook . have work in the police but also in school , I have see at first hand how important it be to act quickly when it come to protect child from sexual exploitation . another mantra of mine , which I hope be reflect in the Bill , be that prevention be always well than detection . that apply to any crime , but it be especially true of this hideous one of child sexual exploitation . the duty to report will help ensure that child be less vulnerable . finally , I urge all member to support the Bill . it will not only empower our police , but support victim , take strong action against those who endanger our constituent ' safety and that of our child , and drive real change in our street . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . on the whole , the Bill be to be welcome . a number of the provision be already in place in Northern Ireland , such as the offensive weapon penalty , and there be other that the Northern Ireland Executive be in the process of introduce . in my intervention on the Home Secretary , I welcome the 51 clause that require a consent motion , because they be the sort of provision that we want in Northern Ireland as well . on the thing that be outstanding , the Home Secretary kindly say that she would , through the Minister and the Assembly , take they far , so that be also good news . there be other measure that I agree with and some that I believe do not go far enough , such as the provision on policing and investigation . I think of the absolutely heartbreaking interview with David Amess ' s daughter about the refusal to carry out a public inquiry into her father ' s murder by an isis supporter . David Amess be my friend , as he be to many in this House , and we be the poor for his passing . with all due respect , I believe that the decision not to carry out an inquiry be the wrong decision . I hope this Bill , and perhaps the clause on investigation in part 13 , may lead to further power be available for family to seek an inquiry into why the police have cease their investigation . David Amess ' s family deserve that inquiry and this House deserve that inquiry , but I will leave it at that . I welcome the shoplifting provision , and I very much welcome those on knife crime , which have be a scourge across this great nation , and the Government have accept the need for such legislation . I wish the tightening of the provision on child sexual exploitation be not necessary , but it certainly be . between 2022 and 2023 , record crime relate to child pornography be up by 40 . 6 % , which be a shocking figure . as a father and a grandfather , such statistic upset I , but as a parliamentarian , such statistic galvanise I to ensure that we shut down this horrific industry , include by jail all those involve in share video or produce they . none of those crime be victimless , and we must take stride to address that . consequently , I welcome those provision . no Bill can ever be perfect , and there be amendment to be make , but it be clear that our system currently allow too many criminal to slip through loophole , and the police need great power of investigation and of drug testing as well . security must , however , be balance with — and the Bill should not impinge on — the exist right of british citizen . the right to protest be a vital mechanism for freedom of speech , but it must be safe protest . I speak as someone who have protest for nearly all my life , and we have live in a nation and a country where protest become the name of the game . I have to say that those be always peaceful protest — I underline that very quickly — but a balance must be strike . I look forward to the Minister outline how we can protect our freedom in this Bill , such as the right to have a religious belief and to express it in a balanced way , and not be persecute or discriminate against for that reason . we also need protection for our service personnel , include by provide support in relation to the vexatious allegation that we be see in Northern Ireland . we will not recruit police service or armed force personnel if they know they will be abandon and hang out to dry at the first hint of an allegation . the Bill must strengthen that protection . that be one of the thing I look forward to try to do . there be much in the Bill that we should welcome , and the Home Secretary and the Government be definitely on the right road . we will also see a difference in Northern Ireland , and the Bill be good news for everyone in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I enormously welcome this Bill , in which there be so much that will make a real , positive difference for my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire . due to time constraint , I will have to skip through a lot of the praise I have for the Bill and move straight to an area where I would like to have a conversation and a dialogue with the Minister about what we can do , and that be the area of mandatory reporting . I enormously welcome the fact that this Bill will finally introduce a statutory duty to report the possible sexual abuse of child when those who have responsibility for child be make aware of it . it have be a long road . in March 2018 , the previous Conservative Government say the case for mandatory reporting have " not currently be make " and that they would not introduce the policy . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , chair by Alexis Jay , show how misjudged that position be . I thank my hon . friend for support I in my debate last week on Professor Jay ' s recommendation for the Church of England . do he agree with I that , alongside the Government implement those recommendation , it be critical that faith organisation implement they as well ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I thank he for that intervention . as a society , we must move towards ensure that child be protect . when it come to the detail , I be not fully sure that the Bill , as currently draft , deliver on the Government ' s pledge to implement the iicsa recommendation . that be mainly because , on my reading , it do not create criminal sanction for non - compliance , which be a key part of the 13th iicsa recommendation . the only consequence spell out in the Bill for failure to report be that someone could be refer to as their professional regulator , where relevant , or to the Disclosure and Barring Service , which , to quote the Bill ' s explanatory note , will " consider their suitability to continue work in regulated activity with child . " that be all really positive , but we have to go a little bit far . as currently draft , be the Bill enough to tackle the chronic under - reporting of sexual abuse identify by the Jay inquiry ? the new offence of stop someone else from report child sexual abuse be very welcome . for example , it should stop manager pressure people who work under they not to report such abuse , but I do not think that it will cover such case in religious group . as an example , I would like to talk about the religious organisation in which I be raise , the Jehovah ' s witness . Most people know very little about they , but they be a very insular religious community with a deep distrust , in many case , of secular authority , much of which come from the fundamental nature of some of their belief . witness have a mindset in which the first port of call for any issue with another member of the faith be their local congregation ' s body of religious elder , who be man — always man — appoint from within their rank . the organisation deny that it stop these elder from refer allegation of sexual abuse to the police , but number speak louder than word . almost 10 year ago , the Jehovah ' s witness be one of the case study examine by an australian royal commission on institutional response to child sexual abuse . the commission find that , in Australia alone , allegation have be document by religious elder against 1 , 006 individual , and not a single one be report to the police . in the UK , elder sometimes say that it be a victim ' s absolute right to go to the police , which be often the organisation ' s response to such criticism . but behind the scene , they heavily discourage it , tell victim that publicity would bring reproach on God ' s name . this secretive attitude be well exemplified by a recent speech by a member of the religion ' s govern body : " suppose that someone be convict and put in jail , or someone be find guilty by man , as Jesus be . it do not mean that he be guilty in the sight of God . " I should flag that he be not specifically refer to child sexual abuse , but that attitude be pervasive . I describe this example to highlight just how critical it be that the duty to report be back up by criminal consequence for ignore it , because some of these organisation will do anything to avoid compliance . be the Minister willing to meet I to discuss this issue in more depth , and how we can address it ? I would also appreciate it if she could comment on the scope of the individual that the Bill place under a duty to report . I be not convince at the moment that many religious leader — who often hold very significant power and influence , as I have outline — will be include . this go back to the IICSA report , which recommend that the duty to report should fall on anyone who work in regulated activity , but also on anyone in a position of trust over a child , as define by the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . on my reading , the Bill do the former but not the latter , as currently draft , and address this by use both criterion could significantly strengthen the legislation . I welcome this Bill , which contain very powerful provision to progress measure outline in the manifesto on which Labour Members stand to make our street safe and tackle crime . I look forward to vote for it this evening . I rise to support this Bill , which will provide the necessary tool to restore public confidence in law and order . as a former warrant police officer , council portfolio - holder for enforcement and chair of Medway community safety partnership , I have be work with and within my community to challenge many of the issue that this Bill will counter . I thank Kent police and Kent county council staff for all the work they do every weekend , every day and every hour to help and support our resident . however , this Bill do not come without context . for over a decade , the previous Government chip away at our criminal justice system . they cut police funding . we all remember the Police Federation ' s " cut have Consequences " campaign , and the previous Government slash officer number before recruit more officer to low level per capita . they slash pcso number and weaken council enforcement team . court delay skyrocket . Probation be privatised , then nationalise and then privatise again . legal aid be gutte . prison be leave full . these reckless act have fuel antisocial behaviour and shatter public confidence in law enforcement . do my hon . friend share my shock that Cumbria police do not hand out a single penalty notice for disorder in 2023 ? that be down from 1 , 000 issue in 2010 . do he also share my enthusiasm for this Bill ' s measure to introduce respect order ? I could not concur more . Police funding and police officer number have result in few fine be issue for many type of crime . in fact , the Bill will give the police more power to challenge nuisance biking and other offence . the Bill be an absolutely necessary first step . on Saturday , I visit quite a few retailer in Wokingham . there be no police presence at all in the town , despite crime occur hourly in our shop . someone be always shoplift . Thames Valley police have only 198 police officer per 100 , 000 people , which be well below the national average of 245 . do the hon . Gentleman agree that be not enough ? I agree that insufficient police number in recent year result in a shoplifter ' charter under the last Government , when people be allow to shoplift up to a set amount . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) for her Westminster Hall debate last week , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) for his ten - minute rule Bill on nuisance biking . the number of reckless biker and boy racer who tear through our street and churn up our park have significantly increase in previous year . under the previous Government , the weak section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2002 effectively allow these biker to get away with a slap on the wrist . I welcome the measure in this Bill that will allow these vehicle to be seize , which will send a message that those who be catch with these vehicle will lose that asset immediately . kent police call for these power when I go on an operation in November and witness the cat - and - mouse tactic of perpetrator and the resource need to impose these extremely weak penalty . Knife crime have surge since 2010 and disproportionately affect young people . the Bill give the police new stop - and - search power in high - crime area , allow law enforcement to be much more proactive in intercept potential threat . I welcome this measure , specifically in area of high knife crime in the urban centre of Chatham and Aylesford . the digital age have produce new avenue for crime . as many colleague have mention , that include child sexual exploitation , as well as exploitation and violence against woman . the Bill will introduce more power to challenge stalker and strengthen protection against child sexual exploitation . I be a former teacher , and I have to look at safeguard case involve online activity on a weekly basis . without these additional power , it will be increasingly difficult to catch the malign influence that be harm our young people . I believe that the Bill will also enhance police transparency and accountability . it improve police training , focus on de - escalation technique and mental health awareness . it equip officer with the skill necessary to handle a wide range of situation with sensitivity and professionalism . we know police officer do this every day , but we also know that the diversity of challenge they face require new training . as colleague have say so eloquently , domestic violence be often a hidden crime that leave victim feel trap and powerless to escape . the Bill strengthen the legal framework for protect victim by introduce new provision for protective order , include the ability to ban a perpetrator from return to a victim ' s home even before their trial . it also mandate well support for victim , offer increase access to legal and social service . this Bill be not just about law ; it be about life , safe street , protect community , and justice that truly serve the people . it represent a forward - thinking , balanced approach to law and order and public safety . it provide our police with the power they need to combat crime , support our justice system to deliver fair and effective sentence , promote great community engagement and , most importantly , ensure that victim of crime and our community receive the care and protection they deserve . I be pleased to support the Bill , which will be welcome in urban and rural community across Buckingham and Bletchley . give the time constraint , I will focus my remark on part 3 , on the protection of retail worker . I have a particular interest in Britain ' s 3 . 5 million retail worker , not least because my mum be one of they , have work on the shop floor at Morrisons for over 20 year . during that time , she have see it all — the good , the bad and the ugly . in my conversation with she , particularly over the last decade , two theme have become much more prevalent , and they have already be raise by member on both side of the House . the first theme be the increasingly casual and habitual nature of shoplifting and other retail crime . datum from the British Retail Consortium suggest that this be already cost business across the country more than £ 2 billion a year . in the Thames Valley police area , retail crime rise by over a third between April 2023 and February 2024 . this year alone , the Co - op store in Winslow have face two violent raid aim to remove its cash machine . this be not just petty crime ; too often , it be organise . it be this kind of embolden criminality that must be stop . such activity be not just a blot on a company ' s balance sheet ; it punish good - faith customer and demoralise the worker , who take pride in the work that they do . that be why I welcome the repeal of section 176 of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , to finally call time on Britain ' s open invitation to criminal to steal good worth £ 200 or less . secondly , I want to touch on the grow occurrence of abuse and the threat of violence face by too many shop worker in their workplace . in a 2024 survey of USDAW member , more than two third of retail worker reveal they have be verbally abuse , almost half have be threaten , and one in five have be physically assault while do their job . that be clearly totally intolerable . nobody in this country should go to work fear for their own physical safety . I believe that we in this House , with our security guard and our armed police , have a particular duty to ensure that those who work in our shop feel just as safe as we do . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , just because there be so little time and too many people want to speak . that be why the Bill ' s introduction of the new offence of assault a retail worker be so important . it be also why I welcome the new respect order , which will give the court the power to ban repeat offender from retail premise . ultimately , this be a Bill that deliver for retail worker and ensure they be give the respect and dignity they deserve . that be why I will be support it tonight . I begin by declare an interest : I be proud to be married to a serve Cheshire police officer . in the year end September 2024 , there be 1 million incident of antisocial behaviour , 490 , 000 shop theft offence and more than 55 , 000 knife or sharp instrument offence . those be not just number ; they be real people , real business and real community who be let down by the previous Government . in my constituency , Cheshire police officer continue to go above and beyond . day in , day out , they put themselves on the line to protect we , despite rise demand and the failure of the previous Government to support they . I thank they for their dedication , service and unwavere commitment to keep my constituency , town and village safe . cheshire police have lead the way in tackle some of the key issue that we be discuss today . in February , the force receive praise follow an inspection by his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service , which commend it " on its excellent performance in keep people safe , reduce crime and give victim an effective service . " I be in no doubt that that success be down to the leadership of Chief Constable Mark Roberts and the hard work of cheshire police officer , staff and volunteer . I welcome the tough new action against perpetrator of stalk . the Bill take a range of new measure to strengthen enforcement and well protect victim , such as make it easy for court to issue stalk protection order , introduce a new offence of spiking , and improve information sharing with victim . I pay tribute to cheshire police ' s Detective Sergeant David Thomason for his many year of work in this area , include the creation of cheshire ' s anti - stalk unit , which see police , mental health professional , outreach worker and victim advocate work together to protect victim of stalk and give they enhance support , as well as to tackle the behaviour of stalker and the root cause of their offending . DS Thomason have long be a lead advocate in this area , and I be delighted to see the Government give stalk the attention it rightly deserve . the theme of this year ' s National Stalking Awareness Week be " health response : spot stalk " . like other form of violence against woman and girl , stalk be a public health issue and require a whole - system approach . through training , guidance and improved referral pathway , the goal be to support the healthcare sector and ensure that no victim of stalk fall through the gap . will the Minister say what action be be take to ensure collaborative work with healthcare colleague and the delivery of a whole - system approach ? as a member of USDAW and a Labour and Co - operative MP , I also welcome the new offence of assault a retail worker , which will give worker in shop up and down the country the protection they need . this be an area I have long campaign in . I have speak to many retail worker in my constituency , include at the local Co - op store in Latchford , where I hear about the devastating impact that assault and abuse have have on their life . for too long , retail staff have be work in fear of the next incident of abuse , threat or violence , and the Bill provide a great opportunity to make a real difference to the retail industry and to worker ' life . this Labour Government be deliver where the Conservatives fail . this be a Bill that take crime seriously . it be a Bill to rebuild public confidence , make our street safe and give our police the power , support and resource they need to protect our community . the 317 page of the Bill make satisfying reading for this former Crown prosecutor — satisfy because I know it be pack full of measure that will make the street safe for my constituent . Amber Valley be a brilliant place to live , but sadly it be not without incident of antisocial behaviour . that be an important issue to my constituent , which be why I will focus what little time I have this evening on part 1 of the Bill . I have hear the concern of resident in our town and village about car and off - road bike be drive in an antisocial manner . I have listen to the frustration of police officer , who explain to I how they be hamstrung , unable to do anything but issue warning . the Labour - control borough council have make good use of the public space protection order available to it , include by issue fine for car cruise across Amber Valley and disperse troublemaker in Heanor marketplace . the Bill will mean that troublemaker can be disperse for long and that the police will finally have the power to immediately seize and crush their car and bike , give resident confidence that the police will , at long last , have the tool they need to crack down on such antisocial behaviour . antisocial behaviour come in many form and be often a legacy of Tory austerity . youth provision have be drastically cut back by Conservative - control Derbyshire county council . youth service be a crucial pillar in Amber Valley , link young people with the wide community and the neighbourhood police , as I see recently at the Railway Carriage in Ironville . this environment help to steer young people away from choose crime . this Labour Government understand that we need to give our young people chance , which be why , alongside the Bill , we be work at pace towards our opportunity mission , provide more apprenticeship and skilled job for our young people . we know that antisocial behaviour be often commit by a small number of repeat offender , young and old alike . the Bill will make it possible for individual who persistently commit antisocial behaviour to be make subject to a respect order without wait for they to be convict of a criminal offence , thus speed up the response , not least because it will avoid the huge backlog in the Crown court that we inherit from the Tories . we must not forget that people who repeatedly act in an antisocial manner often have underlying issue or trauma drive their behaviour . whether with alcohol awareness class for those who persistently drink and be aggressive in our park , or drug treatment order for those who steal to fund their habit , these tough new order will tackle the root cause of such behaviour . the 13 , 000 additional police officer and respect order be central to our safe street mission , but the order will work only if the resource be available to support offender to deal with their issue and change their behaviour , and I urge the Government to ensure that such provision be in place . antisocial behaviour be often describe as low - level crime , but it do not feel low level to the people who have to endure it . the people of Amber Valley can be confident that this Government have act on their concern and that the antisocial behaviour will be stop . I wholeheartedly support the Bill . I speak in full support of the Bill , which be a crucial piece of legislation that will help to deliver on the Government ' s safe street mission . I be incredibly proud to stand on a platform of secure the safety of my constituent . it be the first responsibility of any Government to keep their community safe , whether nationally or internationally . our community deserve safety , security and respect . too often , antisocial behaviour , violent crime and lawlessness undermine the very fabric of our society . I have see that recently in Wildwood and Highfields and Western Downs in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , where confidence in public service have be erode by antisocial behaviour . the Bill take decisive action to restore public confidence in police and protect those most vulnerable to crime . the Bill strengthen police power to tackle persistent offender , introduce respect order to hold perpetrator accountable and remove the bureaucratic barrier that delay much - need enforcement . whether it be vandalism or the reckless use of vehicle , our response must be swift and effective . furthermore , we can not discuss crime prevention without address our duty to young people . too many of our youth be draw into criminal activity , whether through exploitation , gang violence or knife crime . blame be often put in the wrong place ; we need to tackle the adult who exploit those young people . the Bill introduce tough measure to combat child criminal exploitation , ensure that those who manipulate and abuse young people face the full force of the law . at the same time , we must invest in preventive measure — education , youth service and intervention programme that divert young people away from crime and towards opportunity . in my professional career , I work with child and young people , and I know how amazing they be when they be give a chance . the Government will make sure that no child be leave behind . another key pillar of the Bill be community police . our police officer do an extraordinary job under immense pressure , yet public confidence have erode . the Bill equip our police with the tool they need — great power to tackle serious crime , retail theft and violent offender — while ensure robust accountability . by support our frontline officer , we send a clear message that law and order remain at the heart of our national priority . I be particularly pleased to see the name police officer guarantee , as my constituent in rural village and settlement often tell I that they struggle to feel connected to the police , with long wait for their call and a lack of oversight or regular patrol in their area . that be why I recently ask the Home Office in oral question whether rural community such as Tyrley in my constituency would receive the name police officer guarantee ; I be delighted that the Policing Minister confirm that they would . the Government be commit to deliver the safety for rural community that we so desperately need . the Bill protect victim , punish criminal and strengthen the foundation of a safe society . it ensure that our high street , our town and village , and our home be protect from those who seek to harm or exploit . I urge hon . member to support it in deliver justice , security and respect for all . I speak in support of the Bill , not just because it be the big package of measure on crime and police for decade , with 50 new law to cut crime and make our street safe , but because those new measure will tackle antisocial behaviour , shop theft and street crime head on by give the police and our community new power to take back town and city centre , such as Newport , from thug and thief . those be great reason to welcome the Bill , but I also welcome it because it contain some of my own work . last year , I introduce my first private Member ' s Bill to the House : the Community and suspend Sentences ( Notification of Details ) Bill , which seek to amend the 2020 sentencing code to create a duty on offender to notify the responsible officer of any change of name or contact detail if they be sentence to a community order , a suspend sentence order , a youth rehabilitation order or a referral order . too often , at the moment , such offender be able to change their name and slip under the radar to avoid scrutiny , and potentially go on to reoffend . chapter 4 of part 5 of the Bill mean that my private Member ' s Bill have be note and incorporate into the legislation . I be pleased that the Government be commit to utilise good idea from all area , include the Back Benches . I do not wish to praise only the element of the Bill that I contribute to , because it will seek to address some other serious issue . I particularly welcome the introduction of respect order to stamp out issue such as public drinking and drug use . that will be particularly welcome in Cross Keys in my constituency , where resident ' life be blight by such antisocial behaviour outside their home and along the canal — a natural beauty spot that be also suffer from individual drink and take drug during the day in full view of passersby . another issue that affect my constituent be off - road biking , which be dangerous and cause a great deal of damage to our beautiful countryside . I welcome the police ' s new power as a result of the Bill to seize vehicle and to stop off - road biking and the dangerous use of e - scooter on pavement . remove the need for police to issue a warning before seize off road bike and e - scooter be particularly welcome , and great news for the people of Argoed and those live near Mynydd Maen in my constituency . I must also mention the need to protect shop worker , because shop staff be a particularly targeted and vulnerable group . in introduce the new offence of assault a retail worker , the Government be show that they be serious about tackle issue in community to take back our shop and street by confront violence and antisocial behaviour head on . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on safeguarding in faith community , I be also pleased to see a new duty in England for adult work in relevant activity to report instance of child sexual abuse , as already mention . the Government be work hard to implement the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , after year of inaction by the previous Government . finally , I be also pleased to see the new offence for spiking , which be predominantly an offence commit by man against woman . violence against woman and girl be endemic in our society , and we need to take it seriously and tackle it directly . I be sad to say that that have not always be the case . there have be some solid campaign , such as StopTopps , but place the emphasis on the potential victim can not solve the issue . the Bill make a difference , and I thank the Front - Bench team for their diligence in bring it forward . I could go on , but I be mindful of time and the need to get other speaker in , so I close by welcome the Bill and urge all those involve to get it through the necessary stage and on to the statute book as quickly as possible . on Friday , I attend an event organise by Age UK Mid Mersey at the Mansion House in Windle in my constituency , take question from service user and volunteer . it be no surprise to I that crime and policing , and specifically the threat of antisocial behaviour , be raise by those present . old people tell I that they be scared to leave their home , especially after dark . for their sake , and for all those in our community , we need to take our street back . the Bill be a step towards do that . many of the Bill ' s welcome measure be aim at tackle what , for too long and by too many , have be think of as low - level crime . antisocial behaviour , whether public drinking , drug use , vandalism or off - road bike tear up sport pitch and park , be completely unacceptable . it blight our community and can ruin life . People in St Helens North have great pride in where they live , but that have be test too often by a mindless minority . in recent week in Blackbrook , I have hear report of some young people target bus and shop with object , even cause some bus to be divert . they be a minority , and I know most young people will be just as appal by that sort of behaviour as most people of any age , but it be totally unacceptable . the introduction of respect order will help to address some of that by target repeat offender and ensure that they face real consequence . Most of all , restore neighbourhood policing will send a message that we will not stand for it . another crime that for too long have be see as low level and have be effectively decriminalised be shoplift . my mum be a shop worker , work in what be then the Co - op on West End Road in Blackbrook . she regularly encounter shoplifting — and , I be sad to say , much bad . she be assault at work , as be many other woman she work with . when it come to violence against shop worker , we need the police and business to take every possible step to protect worker and customer , and to punish those responsible . I strongly welcome the proposal in the Bill . People in St Helens North deserve and demand to feel safe . the Bill contain many step in the right direction to ensure that crime do not dictate the way that we live our life , and that those responsible face the consequence of their irresponsible action . our police must have the resource and the power to tackle antisocial behaviour and violent crime — both prevention and punishment . it be about protect our community and ensure that they be place to live , work and raise a family in peace . that be all most of we want , and we need to deliver it . I rise to support the Bill , much of which be fulfil labour ' s mission to make our street safe by deal with what sometimes be call low - level criminality but , in reality , be crime that make people feel unsafe in their own community . whether shoplifting , public drug and alcohol abuse , online harm or antisocial behaviour , law breaking must always be deal with and never ignore . I warmly acknowledge , in particular , the propose change to the law on retail crime . sadly , law breaking be commonplace in retail . many year ago , when I be a student work at a clothing shop in the centre of Glasgow , my colleague and I have to deal with threat , intimidation and even the prospect of be stab with needle . I have see at first hand how that kind of intimidation can affect people in their work environment . I go to the Co - op in Morpeth in my constituency recently , where I hear from USDAW colleague and Co - op staff that the situation face retail worker have only become bad , with worker at time face industrial level of shoplifting and threat of physical harm . that be why I welcome the removal of the Tories ' de facto £ 200 floor on shoplifting prosecution , as well as the new offence of assault a retail worker . as hon . member have say , no one should have to fear for their safety in order to make a living . however , I would welcome assurance from the Minister about some of the process outline for the new respect order . the Bill define antisocial behaviour as " conduct that have cause , or be likely to cause , harassment , alarm or distress to any person " . I run a homelessness charity , and I can envisage a possible scenario in which a tenant with the potential to be troublesome be issue with a respect order that would bar they from enter the tower block in which they live . let we imagine that they do not have alternative accommodation , so they enter the flat anyway . upon do so , they could be arrest , charge , put on trial and issue with a prison term . this hypothetical tenant may not be a saint , but it would be a surreal outcome in which a criminal be make out of someone who be simply try to go home . I would appreciate some alleviation of my concern on this matter . stick with antisocial behaviour , I also know from my time work in homelessness that , alongside law and order , we need other tool to help those with multiple and complex need . a Northumbria University research report that I commission in 2022 demonstrate that 94 % of those face homelessness have experience serious trauma during their life . that trauma underlie the often chaotic and unpleasant behaviour that we see in our town and city . some of those who be cause misery to other be themselves deeply traumatise by the abuse , violence and neglect that they have experience or continue to experience . we should remember that be homeless itself be a trauma . we can most successfully address that behaviour by take a trauma - inform approach and by offer appropriate support service . it be not about be soft — crime be crime — but if we genuinely want to stop the cycle of offend , we need multiple option at our disposal , include supportive option . when we witness antisocial behaviour , we should of course firmly say , " you must not do that or there will be consequence . " but we should also ask , " what happen to you that lead you to this point in your life ? " even as we pursue a much - need focus on antisocial behaviour and crime , I would welcome clarification that traumatise people who be often stick in a loop of fail system will receive the support that they need . the Bill will do a lot of good , and I be sure that the Minister will be able to put my concern to rest . the measure in this Bill be very much need by my constituent . one of the first piece of casework I deal with as an MP be of young child ride recklessly around on small motorbike with no helmet . my constituent Helen be at her wit ' end with the dreadful noise and the fear that one of the child or a pass pedestrian might get hurt . I recently ask for an update , and her husband Malcolm tell I that although there have be some relief recently , they be concerned that the light night will bring more problem . what frustrate they be the wait for a police response . recently in Morecambe we have a gang of lad cause havoc on the Branksome estate . follow report of they threaten people and cause damage , the police give chase and seize one of the bike . early that day , a town centre playground be take over by people on bike , with report that they be be " purposefully menacing " and that their bike have damage the grassy area near the playground . it be simply luck that no one be hurt . in Morecambe , local organisation be come together to tackle the menace of antisocial behaviour . the Safe Morecambe initiative — which bring together Morecambe police , the Morecambe business improvement district , the city council , the town council and other key stakeholder — be form last November . its member collaborate to ensure a safe and welcoming environment for resident , business and visitor . I meet one of they , Tim Barbary , to discuss the coalition , and I will continue to support they , include by support the continuation of Operation Centurion , for which I be glad to say that funding have continue . our high street in Morecambe have also be badly affect by theft . the Conservatives write off a lot of this as low - level , but it be not . certain part of Morecambe and some rural area have suffer terribly with fly - tipping . I be glad to see all these issue cover in the Bill , and that the Labour Government be focus on the issue that matter to my constituent . the Bill will make it easy to seize bike and scooter that be be use antisocially . it will enable strong action on all type of antisocial behaviour . it will provide for statutory guidance on fly - tipping and an extra 13 , 000 police officer on the ground . finally , I would like to flag the decimation of youth service under the last Conservative Government , which have mean that so many young people , especially those struggle without strong family role model , have be leave not only to be suck into the grip of antisocial behaviour but in many case to be groom into far more serious criminality . I have already express interest in my constituency become a pilot area for the national youth strategy programme , as I believe that good youth service not only ensure that young people be able to reach their potential , but have a wide knock - on effect on our constituency . all in all , I be very pleased that this Labour Government be take the concern of my constituent in Morecambe and Lunesdale seriously , take strong action to tackle the blight of the misuse of bike and scooter , take theft on our high street seriously again , get tough on fly - tipper and clamp down on the wide antisocial behaviour that we see in our constituency . I be pleased to speak in support of the Government ' s Crime and Policing Bill , the most comprehensive package of such measure that we have see for decade . as a member of the Justice Committee , I know that it will play a crucial part in tackle the serious violence and high - harm offence that have plague our community for far too long . I will focus my contribution on knife crime . in my own constituency we have see at first hand the impact of knife crime on our street and the fear that local people feel as a result . however , we be also witness some remarkable local initiative that be make a real difference in our fight against it . last year , the Knife Angel , a 27 - foot - tall sculpture make from over 100 , 000 seize knife , visit Colchester . it be a powerful symbol of our city ' s commitment to tackle knife crime . stand underneath our iconic Jumbo water tower , the Knife Angel serve as a poignant reminder of the life lose and the urgent need for action . it bring our community together , foster the share determination to address this issue head on . I pay tribute to the Daily Gazette in Colchester for its campaign that run alongside that striking exhibit . I also pay tribute to the work of Essex police in tackle knife crime . its violence and vulnerability unit bring together partner from across the county . it use data evaluation , target intervention and communication campaign to support young people to stay safe and to keep they away from the exploitation and vulnerability that can draw they into crime , as we have hear so many member talk about today . finally , let I highlight the incredible work of a man name Peter Dutch and the ALB — the anti loo roll brigade — in Colchester . on another occasion I will happily explain the story behind that name . it have be pivotal in recent month in divert young people away from trouble and be build local alliance to provide counselling , youth project and other positive alternative to crime . these local initiative in Colchester exemplify the kind of community - drive effort that be essential for tackle knife crime . the Bill will provide the necessary national tool that we also need to amplify those effort and make our street safe . I urge member across the House — there be not so many on the Opposition Benches right now — to join I in support the Bill . ensure the safety and security of our community be one of the most fundamental duty of government . when that duty be neglect , the consequence be real , widespread and deeply feel by everyone — especially the most vulnerable in our society . in recent year , that neglect have reach the point where local authority such as Doncaster city council have have to step in to take up the slack . I recognise the work it have do , which have include fund additional police and expand CCTV network to support the police in their work . from walkaround with the police , councillor and business in area such as Thorne , I know the impact that rampant crime be have on our high street and town centre . shop owner and worker feel under constant fear of attack . that be wrong . that be not good enough for the people of Thorne , not good enough for the people of Doncaster East and definitely not good enough for the people of the Isle of Axholme . I be proud to be part of a Government who will clean up our street and rid they from the thief and the thug . I be glad to see that , with the Bill , the Government be take antisocial behaviour seriously . it be too easy to write off ASB as nuisance or annoyance , but it be very much more than that . continual antisocial behaviour can go on for month or even year , make people ' s live miserable . it be describe to I at a recent surgery as a " live torture " . the introduction of respect order be a welcome addition to the tool available to authority to tackle persistent antisocial behaviour and take strong preventive action . I particularly welcome the provision in the Bill that will allow for the instant seizure of motorbike without the need for previous warning . like many of my hon . friend , I represent a rural area . I know from speak to farmer in the Isle of Axholme how unsafe they can feel when they know that help be a long way off . I have hear from farmer in Hatfield about the attack on animal that they have suffer from recently . the new power in the Bill to track steal farm equipment will help both to deter criminal and to stop they in their track before they can profit from their crime . I ask the Government to keep in mind as the Bill progress through Parliament how those ambition will be successful in a rural context . finally , I turn to fly - tipping . every part of my constituency suffer from fly - tipping , which be often do by organise professional group make money by pass themselves off as legitimate waste removal company . they will stop fly - tipping only when it stop be profitable for they . a boost to the use of power to seize vehicle link to fly - tipping and to issue fix penalty notice for fly - tipper be a good step in the right direction and certainly very welcome . at home , at work and at leisure , my constituent in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme should feel safe and be safe 24 / 7 . for that reason , I hope that every hon . member in the House will join I in vote for the Bill tonight . I pay tribute to all the amazing speech we have hear from Labour Members . it can be see from how many of we be still here , hour into the debate — in contrast to the opposition — how seriously the Government and the Labour party take law and order . I absolutely agree with all those speech , but because of time I will focus on violence against woman and girl . woman in Milton Keynes be scared of go out , scare of go to the police and scared of go home , which be still the most dangerous place for a woman . violence against woman and girl slowly become consequence - free under the previous Government . under the Conservatives , only 2 % to 4 % of report rape ever make it to trial . conviction for domestic abuse halve under the Conservatives , and femicide , of which there have be 95 , include two in my own constituency over Christmas , have continue to happen and not be take seriously enough . I be really proud of the Bill ' s and the Government ' s commitment to protect woman and girl and halve violence against woman and girl . I pay tribute to the Milton Keynes portion of Thames Valley police , who have be central to ensure that Milton Keynes become the first white ribbon city , despite the conservative police and crime commissioner , I want to talk about stalk and how important our measure be on that . if I have have time , I would have share my own story of how I be stalk . my stalking happen in person , but more and more of it be happen online . I be interested in hear from the Minister about how the Bill will help to tackle that . spike unfortunately continue to rise . just two week ago , a young woman in my constituency approach I after be spike at a Slug and Lettuce on her 20th birthday — she end up in hospital . we have talk a lot about measure to protect woman from be spiked , but what be we do to tackle the availability of the drug use in spike ? finally , I want to talk about be online . hon . member on the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee will have hear the weak and disappointing answer from representative of the major social medium firm which be use the umbrella of " freedom of speech " to allow threat to woman in online space to continue . they be also use that to spread pretty radical pornography . I want to understand how the Bill will fit with the cross - Government plan to tackle violence against woman and girl . in my last few second , I will highlight two law that be still on the statute book that I would like the Bill to repeal : the Abortion Act 1861 , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) ; and the Vagrancy Act 1824 . both of they target the most vulnerable in our society and should be repeal . crime and antisocial behaviour affect the whole community in which they take place . they erode social cohesion , trust and pride in a place , drive people away from our town centre and make they feel insecure in their own street and workplace and even in their own home . I be therefore pleased to speak in support of the Crime and Policing Bill , which be the large package of measure on crime and police for decade . crime and antisocial behaviour increase under the previous Government , despite what the shadow Home Secretary say . the reality be know by my constituent . in the year end September 2024 , the Home Office record the high ever increase in shoplifting offence . USDAW find that one in five shop worker have be physically assault in a year . instance of theft from a person increase by 22 % . in my community of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , I have hear from many constituent who be worried about rise level of crime — knife crime , shoplifting , burglary , phone theft and car theft , to name but a few . on Sunday alone , 21 constituent write to I to share their concern about burglary in South Ruislip . the news be deeply distress to my constituent , many of whom feel unsafe in their own home and believe that the police do not have the resource need to protect they . that simply can not go on . increase in antisocial behaviour be a symptom of a society in distress . far too often it be dismiss by the last government as low - level crime — they be unwilling and unable to act . I welcome the measure in the Bill to introduce respect order on the bad offender , ban persistent offender from our town centre . that be welcome news for many of my constituent who have contact I about such activity in Uxbridge town centre and Yiewsley high street . critically , the Bill will also keep my constituent safe and protect they from armed burglary . it will create a new power for the police to seize , retain and destroy bladed article and create a new criminal offence of possess a bladed article with the intent to cause harm . it will also ban the possession and distribution of electronic device , which be far too often use in vehicle theft , and create a new target power for the police to enter premise and search and seize electronically track steal good , from mobile phone to steal vehicle , end the terrible situation that my constituent have report where they can track their steal phone or electronic item but the police be unable to go in and get it . I hope , too , that we will look at international vehicle crime and tough measure at our port , to stop the rapid removal from the country of steal vehicle . as well as tough law , the police must also have the resource they need to apply they and a return to proactive neighbourhood policing . although the uplift in police funding , include to London police force , in the last year , be incredibly welcome , significant pressure on London policing remain , so I hope we can continue in this Parliament to increase the resource of the Metropolitan police . unfortunately , my predecessor , while Mayor of London , close a number of police station and police counter . I welcome the present Mayor of London ' s commitment to keep Uxbridge police station open , and I hope we can work together to reopen the front counter and the custody suite . I strongly support this Bill and the new measure and increase police power , along with the uplift in funding already agree by this new Government . these measure will help to restore trust in the police and improve the safety of my constituent , and I wholeheartedly support they . this Bill present an opportunity to confront the challenge face our community , protect the most vulnerable and ensure that justice serve everyone . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl , to tackle antisocial behaviour and to halve knife crime . this be a positive step forward , strengthen protection for the public and address some of the damaging policy of the previous Government . I must therefore turn my attention to the impact of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . in its rush to extend police power , this legislation have have a devastating effect on Gypsy and Traveller community . the Act introduce a new criminal offence relate to trespass , and grant sweeping power to ban those community from area for up to 12 month , as well as power to fine , arrest , imprison and seize the home of Gypsies and Travellers . under these provision , sanction can be enforce base on damage , disruption or distress , often root in subjective perception of harm . this mean that entire community could face eviction or banishment from area , with little regard for the cultural context or the lack of alternative place to settle . these measure be a grave injustice and an affront to the right and dignity of those who follow century - old way of life . it be concern that , in the suppose pursuit of law and order , the previous Government overlook fundamental human right protection . I must stress that the impact of these measure be not theoretical ; it be real and it be be live . it be affect family , child and entire community . human right body have raise their concern . the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination , in its formal recommendation , have call for the repeal of the provision in question and , importantly , the High Court , in its ruling in 2024 , find that certain provision in the Act be incompatible with the european convention on human right . this Parliament have a duty to address these human right violation and to correct the injustice do . the Crime and Policing Bill offer we the opportunity to right the wrong of the past , to restore fairness and to ensure that we have law that respect the right of all people , regardless of their heritage or way of life . this Bill could be the mean by which we address the discrimination face by Gypsies and Travellers . we need bold action to ensure that their tradition be protect . all people and all community have the right to fair treatment . if we really want to stand for justice and human dignity , that must apply to all , so as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Gypsies , Travellers and Roma , I urge the Government to undo the harm of the previous legislation . let we stand for equality under the law and protection for all who live in the United Kingdom . I declare an interest as a member and former employee of the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers . I welcome the Bill bring forward by the Government . I want to discuss three broad area : antisocial behaviour ; retail crime ; and measure to end commercial sexual exploitation . antisocial behaviour have be an increase concern for my constituent in Edinburgh North and Leith . over the past few month , they have relay to I their concern over a group of young people who have be dub the " baby gang " . their name might not seem threaten , but their action be . the action of the " baby gang " have alarm my constituent and make they afraid . the tragedy be that many of the gang member be only in their mid - teen . during the general election campaign , constituent tell I repeatedly how they be feed up with off - road bike be use in park and on pavement . that be why I be so pleased to see that the Bill will include provision to tackle not only antisocial behaviour but the use of off - road motorbike use in this manner . these issue be devolve to the Scottish Parliament , so I hope that the Scottish Government — although they be not represent here tonight — will look closely at these measure . on retail crime , I congratulate the Government on the measure in the Bill to tackle the unacceptable attack and assault on shop worker . the provision in part 3 of the Bill replicate legislation that have already be bring forward by a Member of the Scottish Parliament , my colleague Daniel Johnson MSP , when he secure the Protection of Workers ( Retail and age - restrict Goods and Services ) ( Scotland ) Act 2021 . we be begin to see the positive impact of the legislation and the effect it have have in shop and supermarket across Scotland , which be evidence in the datum . in USDAW ' s late Freedom from Fear research , 77 % of shop worker across the UK report abuse , 53 % report be threaten and 10 % report be assault . the datum from Scotland be low , demonstrate that within only a few year the introduction of a specific crime be help to create a safe working environment for shop worker . I be proud that this Bill will extend this protection , because protection at work should not be limit by postcode . the Bill have no specific measure to reduce prostitution or sex trafficking . in 2023 , the Home Affairs Committee find that legislation be need in this area , as a report from the inquiry on human trafficking find that the collaboration between the National Crime Agency and the Home Office on pimp website have produce no evidence of improvement . I believe that the Bill should go far in tackle this exploitation . it could afford the Government the opportunity to take the action require to reduce demand and to tackle pimp website . I would be grateful to hear from the Minister whether the Government would look favourably on amendment that seek to make profiting from the prostitution of another person a criminal offence . this Bill will go a long way in reduce crime , and I hope that when we next consider it in this place , it will contain measure that reduce the commercial exploitation of woman . antisocial behaviour ruin life . on Friday , I hold an event at the Field Lane estate in Calder Valley , the first in a series of event across my constituency to listen to member of the community about antisocial behaviour , and their story be heartbreaking . family be be terrorise by problem resident , child be scared to go to school and resident fear for their property and personal safety . all the while , people have no trust that make report to the police will bring an end to the fear their family be face . sadly , this lack of trust become all too common a feature in community under the last government . they know that , no matter how many report they make or how much evidence they have , the police will either not turn up or turn up late and then not take people seriously , after the last Government hollow out our policing service . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital for member from the previous Government to be here to listen to the testimony of our constituent about how the last Government fail they on so many facet of tackle crime ? I absolutely agree that the last government fail people on tackle crime , particularly due to its hollowing out of the police . indeed , in West Yorkshire alone , within just six year of the Conservatives take office , over 1 , 200 police officer have be let go , and 1 , 000 of those be in frontline role , leave their number even more deplete than the Opposition Benches . when the number rise back again , it be just not the same because the previous Government fail to recognise that police be more than just a number on a spreadsheet . they get rid of 1 , 200 officer who know their community , who add local intelligence and understanding of the local nuance , and who have experience support those neighbourhood . we lose the heart of neighbourhood - base policing — the good tool to combat antisocial behaviour — and one of the good reassurance that evidence can have . the lack of local knowledge be why we have see over 3 , 000 report of antisocial behaviour in Calder Valley in three year , ruin life . the lack of trust in police be why I know that so many more incident simply go unreported . after 14 year of the last Conservative Government allow antisocial behaviour and other crime to grow unchecked , I be proud that this Labour Government be restore respect for law and order , stand with and bring community and police close together , with name officer in every community , back by £ 2 million of funding to kickstart recruitment for the new neighbourhood police officer . the Government will end the impunity that criminal feel they can operate under by give officer strong power to tackle antisocial behaviour , violent crime and persistent offender who make people ' s live a misery . against a backdrop of the lack of trust in our police service that be allow to fester over 14 year , this Bill be an important step in the process of rebuild trust and confidence and why , on behalf of my constituent from Calder Valley , who have suffer because of antisocial behaviour , I be back the Bill to take action today . in Ashton , Orrell , Platt Bridge , Hindley and Hindley Green , one issue dominate life for so many : antisocial behaviour . for month , I have be promise my constituent the measure in the Bill , and I thank the Home Office team for the hard work require to bring it to the House so quickly . to my mind , the Bill be one of the strong example of this Labour Government deliver for work people on the issue they care about . the Bill take tough action against serious crime — drug , knife crime and terrorism — but I want to talk about a different , more everyday type of crime . these be the crime that make life demoralise and sometimes frightening for many people , and that shape how people feel about their town centre , community and security . it be the fly - tipping in Bickershaw that make parent stop their kid play outside . it be teenager throw mud at car in Hindley , and group intimidate people by the shop in Winstanley . some of the tough call I have receive in this job have be people ring to tell I that thug have destroy a local sport club : Ashton Town — an arson attack — Hindley FC , and Wigan Cosmos , as well as St Jude ' s pitch be destroy in minute by vandal on dirt bike . those club be great community asset where kid that I represent learn to become Wigan Warriors , or the elderly play walk football — place where people feel pride in their community . I have support fundraiser to help those club , work with local councillor and warrior player to help St Jude ' s build a fence to keep the bike out , but local resident should not have to reach into their already stretch pocket . our street should not feel so unsafe that people resort to self - protection . we be one of the world ' s large economy and great democracy . that be why I welcome the measure in the Bill , such as new power to seize bike that wake people up at night , as they do to I this Saturday . every time one of those bike tear past I in the town centre , I hold on to my kid that bit tighter . the Bill matter because it be about stand up for the good , hard - work people who love their town and want to feel pride in they again . it be about what it mean to feel respect for those who we stand by and live near , and it show that the Labour Government will not tolerate those who make other ' live a misery . the respect order , for example , be wisely name , because vandalism , thuggery and mindless destruction be about a lack of respect for our public space and for each other . the Bill empower group in society — police , council , housing association — with restore that respect , ask they to say , " enough be enough " and to take control of their community . I want to make a wide point about respect in our society . often when I be travel on the bus or train , someone be play video loudly on their phone without headphone . that be not illegal , but it be off - put , because it force whatever that person be do on to everyone else , as if they somehow own our share public space . it demonstrate a lack of respect for our public realm and for those around we . in the end , the strength of our community and our country depend on the respect , and even the love , we have for one other . that be what resilience be in a community . over the last 14 year , the Conservative Government have allow that respect to erode . too many no long trust that the law will be uphold and apply equally and fairly to everyone , and that erode people ' s trust in one another . that be why antisocial behaviour be significant : it be about treat one another with a lack of respect , as if we do not care about the thing we have in common . only by rebuild and reinveste in our public realm , and restore the strength and integrity of institution such as the police , will we rebuild that respect and trust . the Bill take a vital step . it show that we stand with law - abide , hard - work people . it send a strong message to those who fail to recognise their responsibility . respect must return to our street , and this Bill will start to make that happen . I thank my right hon . friend the Home Secretary and the whole ministerial team for bring forward the Bill and make significant progress on our mission to make our street safe . I want to cover three area in which we promise change and we be deliver . the first be antisocial behaviour . we have hear much about it from across the House today , but it continue to blight my town centre . I hear time and again from constituent in Bournemouth West about how unsafe they feel , and antisocial behaviour be reportedly turn potential retailer away from the town centre . it be not just a question of low - level inconvenience ; it be a matter of people ' s everyday quality of life and the economic health of our town . the rise in street crime and shoplifting , and the persistent nuisance , have make many people feel that they can not enjoy the place they live in the way they use to . I have speak to retail worker and boss from the Co - op and other retailer , who have have to deal over and over again with the same people come into their store , sweep stock from the shelf and put their staff at risk . the Conservatives should be ashamed of that record . after 14 year , our community have be leave vulnerable , and an epidemic of crime and antisocial behaviour have be ignore for far too long . we be take action where the last Government fail to by remove the £ 200 shoplifting threshold , introduce 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer and increase police funding — include 6 . 5 % more for Dorset police — and introduce respect order , which will give police and local authority new power to tackle the bad offender and prevent they from enter our town and district centre . like many other , I also welcome the step in the Bill to immediately seize those awful off - road bike and dangerous scooter that cause such a nuisance , in particular up Kinson Road and Leybourne Avenue in my constituency . student at Bishop Aldhelm ' s primary school tell I this morning that those nuisance bike be destroy our woodland and protect heathland . secondly , the Bill address serious crime and violence , such as knife crime . we see knife crime far too often in Bournemouth . Less than two week ago , there be a brutal double stabbing , and it be one in a long line of horrific attack , include three fatality in the past two year . I welcome the work this government be do to prevent such attack with the creation of new offence , but despite the collaborative work of the police , the council and local charity , I also want to see a violence reduction unit in my local area . the Bill be not just about punish offender ; it also provide much - need support for those who want to turn their life around . some amazing work be happen in my constituency , particularly through Changes be make , which provide positive outlet for young people . I encourage the Home Secretary to look for opportunity to support activity like those and to collaborate with effective charity through the Young Futures programme . finally , it be about time that we strengthen law to protect woman and girl . just last week , I hold an event to well understand woman ' s perception of their own safety in the town centre and to highlight the way in which policing , the council , business and design can contribute to it . I welcome the creation of new spiking and stalk offence . it be shameful that previous government fail to make those change . I be proud of the Bill and the direction that the Labour Government be take . we be not just talk about crime , but take decisive action to reduce it . although it may be unrealistic to expect Conservative member to take responsibility and apologise for their failure — they would have to be in the Chamber to do that — perhaps they could join my constituent , who want to see cross - party support for these long - overdue change , in welcome the Bill . I begin my remark by reflect on the non - attendance throughout the debate of reform mp . it appear that they spend more time these day litigate against each other than they do legislate in this place . when I knock on door in Crewe and Nantwich or sit in my constituency surgery , I too often meet people who live in perpetual fear in their own community . the thing that those people have in common be that they want to see neighbourhood policing restore , and I be proud that this Government be commit to do that . anybody with a set of eye could see that neighbourhood policing be decimate under the previous Government , despite what the shadow Home Secretary say early . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , because I be conscious that other wish to get in . my constituent also tell I that they want to feel as if the police be equip with the power that they need to grip the problem that leave people fearful on the street or , bad , in their home . rise antisocial behaviour have be a scourge on our street , affect my constituent ' business , their livelihood and even their health . a young woman contact I recently about the young male who make she and her child ' s live a misery by bomb - knock and kick her door in the evening , and shout " bitch " as they pass her home . my constituent Steve tell I at my constituency surgery over the weekend that his family ' s life be be make a live hell by a small number of social housing tenant , and the housing provider have so far fail to take any action to address that . that be why I fully support the introduction of respect order , which will allow a number of agency , include housing provider , to place restriction on that kind of behaviour . I declare an interest : I start my work life as a shop worker , first in Woolworths — yes , I be old enough — and then in bet shop , a part of the retail sector that have , unfortunately , never be a stranger to violence and intimidation for worker . however , as I find out when I meet James , the manager of my local Co - operative store in Crewe , brazen crime and the intimidation of shop worker have become commonplace , even in our local convenience store . I believe that the Bill will make a last difference to the life of my constituent . business owner , worker and decent law - abide people just want to live in a community where they feel safe . these power be ambitious , and we must ensure that they deliver real , last change for the people who need it most . I be proud to speak in firm support of the Bill . many of my constituent feel that crime , especially day - to - day antisocial behaviour , have grow exponentially over recent year . it impact every part of my constituency , from the town centre in Ilkeston and Long Eaton , to village such as Draycott and suburban estate such as Cotmanhay . the Bill be about make people feel safe , so that Erewash resident from Sawley to Shipley View can live their life free from the fear of crime . as our local police force be gutte by austerity under the previous Government , so - call low - level offence such as antisocial behaviour , shoplifting and even burglary be increasingly ignore and functionally decriminalise by the conservative party . shoplifting be functionally decriminalise under the negligence of the previous Government , who set guideline state that it should not be deal with if good worth less than £ 200 be steal . although major supermarket and survive high street chain might be able to stomach that volume , our small business can not . how be those business mean to grow , how be investment mean to be make , how be town centre mean to thrive and how be people mean to feel safe when criminal and thief be give impunity by the previous Government ' s shoplifter ' charter ? the Bill repeal that thieve ' charter , which will surely come as a relief to business owner and the hard - work , law - abide majority of constituent in Erewash and across the country . Knife crime have more than double in Derbyshire in the past decade . the recent horrific stabbing and subsequent death of a teenager in my constituency have rightly give rise to a lot of anger in my community — some of which end up be direct at I , as people ask bluntly , " what be you go to do about this ? " that be why I will be very proud to vote for the Bill , which create a new offence of possession of a bladed item with intent to cause harm . it will give our police the new and strong power that they need to seize , keep and destroy knife confiscate from private property . finally , on violence against woman and girl , 13 , 000 stalking and harassment offence be record in Derbyshire in 2024 — the high figure in the east midland — along with more than 3 , 400 sexual offence . in that time , one of my great friend and constituent report to police that she have be follow and have sexual abuse shout at she . that abuse happen in broad daylight and in public , on West Park in Long Eaton . the Government ' s mission be to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . if we be to do that , our police will need the measure in the Bill . if we have now enter the decade of national renewal that the Government promise , yes we need to get the economy grow again , yes we need to get Britain build again , and yes we need to get the NHS back on its foot , but we must also ensure that crime be punish and that the police be give the power that they need to properly enforce against offender . we must take back our street and excise the rot . if we restore social order and respect for our community , we can fix broken Britain . I warmly welcome the clause in this landmark Bill that will give great protection to victim of stalk — include guidance for police about disclose the identity of online stalker to victim — and clarify what constitute stalk so that the police have no excuse not to pursue incident . some 91 % of victim survey by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust have suffer from mental health problem as a result of be stalk . be stalk be also an indicator of be at high risk of domestic homicide . it be vital that victim feel safe to report what they be suffer , which be why I welcome the opening of the purpose - build Acer House centre for victim of rape and sexual assault in York and North Yorkshire . it have be design in consultation with victim to provide a safe and supportive environment in which evidence can be collect , and people can receive immediate health care and a medical examination if need . accord to Women ' s aid , stalk by ex - partner account for the large group of stalking victim , with the vast majority of victim be woman . as with domestic abuse in general , rate of prosecution and conviction be shockingly low . in the year to March 2024 , North Yorkshire police record 1 , 045 stalk offence , but only 75 result in a charge or summon . in just over half the original case , the victim choose not to pursue the case . work by the Suzy Lamplugh Trust help to explain why , and argue that victim have be let down at every stage by the police , the CPS , and the court . the trust ' s super - complaint against the police in 2022 find that they be not even identify stalk case , and even when they be , they often do not properly investigate . the trust recommend that stalk protection order should be apply for and put in place at as early a stage as possible . after year of failure under the Tories , this Bill can not come soon enough for victim of stalk . new domestic abuse protection order have be pilot , which victim can apply for themselves . stalk victim also feel that their life be control by someone else , so give they the chance to apply for a stalk protection order would hand power back to they . I be so pleased that the Government be consider wide change to stalk protection order , and I invite the Minister to comment on whether they will look at allow victim to apply for they . to conclude , on behalf of my constituent in Scarborough and whitby I be proud to support the Bill . I firmly support the Bill — the most substantial of this Parliament so far . it will make street in Wolverhampton North East and across the country safe , and it be frankly shocking that many of the propose law be not already in place . just a glance on social medium will show doorbell footage of where our street have become a hunting ground for criminal . it be incredible that today criminal can carry sophisticated car theft device such as signal jammer , keyless repeater and signal amplifier , but unless they be catch use those tool in the act , they can not be arrest . that end with the Bill , because simply possess such tool will be a criminal offence . this be long overdue . More than 700 , 000 vehicle be break into last year , with 40 % of case involve those high - tech device . the Bill will introduce around 50 new law , finally crack down on crime and antisocial behaviour . some of the change prompt a question about why such law be not already in place . violent attack on shop worker will now be a stand - alone offence , and shoplifting will no long be dismiss as a low - value crime , with a £ 200 loophole fuel an epidemic of theft . new power will ensure that repeat offender be ban from retail area more quickly , and that they will stay away . illegal off - road bike ? immediate seizure . no more warning , no more second chance . if someone ride illegally , they will lose their bike , and instead of that bike be auction off and fall back into the hand of yobs , it will be crush . just last Friday I go out on a walkabout with the neighbourhood police in Wednesfield high street . Wednesfield be a safe area , with low crime than other high street in Wolverhampton and Willenhall , but I be appal to hear from shop worker about the brazen theft that they endure . I speak to a young lady who have just turn 19 and be petrify every time shop theft happen — and in her shop it happen every day . theft have become so normalise that staff be struggle to report every incident because they simply can not keep up . USDAW , the retail worker union , have be call for strong protection for year . it welcome the Bill , state : " tougher law be need to protect shop worker , and we welcome this legislation as a vital step in tackle retail violence . " West Midlands police now have 540 few officer than it do in 2010 . my hon . friend and neighbour from the west midland talk about there be 540 few officer in our area between 2010 and 2024 , and I be also concerned to see that the high level of knife crime in the country be reach in our part of the west midland . do she agree that since the Labour party have be elect , we have start to bring knife crime down , and do she welcome the fact that we be now on a trajectory to improve that situation ? I certainly do support that . the west midland be no long the knife - crime capital of the world thank to the effective work of the police , in partnership with local authority , the combine authority , our violence reduction unit , a lot of dedicated volunteer and our fantastic school . when it come to reverse the decimation of neighbourhood police , I be delighted that Wednesfield and Heath Town have recently receive an extra police officer and pcso , and Willenhall have receive a new pcso , but that be just the beginning . labour be turn this situation around and we will rebuild neighbouring policing , because that be how to prevent crime before it happen : good , old - fashioned community intelligence and presence . the Bill will make my constituent safe , and ensure that they feel safe . to the criminal who be get away with steal car , intimidate shop staff , tear up our green space with illegal bike and terrorise our community : enough be enough . I wholeheartedly support the Bill . perhaps the most pernicious effect of 14 year of Conservative Government be how they systematically undermine security in every part of our society , whether it be national security through the hollowing out of our armed force , financial security with our economy crash and wage stagnate , or security in our community . town centre be plague by antisocial behaviour , off - road bike terrorise estate and shoplifting be out of control . this Bill seek to deal with those issue . the consequence of that insecurity can be devastating . it breed fear , anxiety and division , and it open up a political space into which populist , with no real answer , can enter to further their own selfish ambition . speak of populist with no answer , Reform Members have not spend a second in the Chamber during today ' s debate about antisocial behaviour in our community . for far too long , the entrance to Hartlepool ' s shopping centre on York Road , know locally as " the ramp " , have be plague by individual who seek to intimidate and disrupt the daily life of decent , hard - work people . I be feed up of hear family and pensioner tell I that they be too scared to walk through our town centre . whatever the personal challenge of that small minority of disruptive individual , they have no right to make the people of Hartlepool feel unsafe in their community . as chair of the Safer Hartlepool Partnership , I have propose a comprehensive action plan for the police and council to implement , include a range of target intervention design to tackle the issue head - on , which the Bill enhance and extend . one key measure be the use of public space protection order that allow we to prohibit certain behaviour in and around a particular geographic area . the Bill reinforce that tool by increase the maximum fine for violate such an order from £ 100 to £ 500 , ensure strong deterrent against antisocial behaviour . I be also push for the great use of enforcement power , include dispersal order , which the Bill extend from 48 hour to 72 hour , and community safety accreditation scheme , which grant police enforcement power to council , shopping centre and other security team , help to free up police resource that , again , the Bill extend and strengthen . the introduction of respect order , which be new civil behavioural order that allow court to ban adult offender from engage in specific antisocial activity , will be a huge tool in Hartlepool . breach a respect order will be a criminal offence , enable police to swiftly intervene and prevent further disruption . importantly , those order can also include positive requirement , compelling offender to address the root cause of their behaviour , an approach that will be particularly useful in the community that I represent where drug - relate issue be often at the heart of the problem . I welcome the Bill ' s measure about off - road bike , which terrorise many community in Hartlepool . I have already speak to the Minister about further power that I would like to see include in the Bill to enhance it . the Bill also tackle wide issue , such as closure order , shoplifting , fly - tipping and child protection . those be not easy problem to fix , but with this Bill , we now have the tough set of enforcement power ever introduce by a Government . it be our duty to ensure that we use they . the legacy of the Conservative Government ' s 14 year in power be one of failure to keep we safe , and it be feel every day in my constituency of Ealing Southall . on Guru Nanak Road , King Street and Western Road in Southall , drug dealing be a common sight and make the area feel unsafe for everyone . the police do not have enough resource , so the Singh Sabha gurdwara have have to employ its own patrol , at a cost of thousand of pound , to keep its worshipper safe . Hanwell clock tower have become a magnet for street drinker . the police try to move they on , but they just do not have the power under the weak law leave by the Conservatives . in west Ealing , drug dealer openly ply their trade , even sit in resident ' front porch when they be out , while the police can not do much about it . across London , it be not safe to take a phone call on the street , as people be liable to have their phone snatch . on top of that , fly - tipping increase by one third under the previous Government , make local neighbourhood feel neglected and unloved — of course the drug dealer , phone thief and street drinker move in . under the last Labour Government , there be six police and community support officer for every single ward in Ealing Southall , but the Conservatives cut £ 1 billion from police in London , so we be lucky to have a couple of local officer per ward . they be not dedicate to the area , like they use to be — they get pull to Brent , Harrow or central London . under the previous Labour Government , the police also have strong power ; the Conservatives actually reduce police power . Labour have already start the work to bring back neighbourhood policing and to recruit 13 , 000 new officer , with £ 320 million of extra funding for police in London . we will ensure that police officer get back out on the street , instead of do admin work like they be do under the previous Government . this Bill will give those new officer the tough power they need to tackle antisocial behaviour and crime , with 50 new law to make our street safe . our new respect order will mean that the police can stop street drinker from congregate at Hanwell clock tower and stop drug dealer from come into west Ealing and Southall . if people break respect order , the police will now be able to arrest they immediately and take they to court , where they can face up to two year in prison . the police will be able to drug test more people on arrest , and respect order will require that drinker and drug user access rehab service to break the cycle of dependency . the Bill will also give police the power to search a property without a warrant where they have evidence that there be a steal electronic device inside . I have my own phone steal a while back ; I could see on the internet that it be in east London , but the police could not do anything about it . this law will now mean that police can use " find my phone " app to go after phone thief and get steal property back . I be delighted that as part of this Bill , the Secretary of State will issue statutory guidance to local council to help to ensure a more consistent approach to fly - tipping . Ealing Council be the no . 1 borough in the country when it come to issue fix - penalty notice against fly - tipper , but it need help to do more . under the Conservatives , fly - tipping be allow to spiral and be see as a low - level crime , but it blight community . I know that this Labour Government be look at further step we can take to punish fly - tipper and to reduce waste in the first place . after 14 year of the Conservatives leave local people in Ealing Southall to put up with open drug taking , street drinking and snatch theft , Labour be give the police back the power and the resource to take the tough action need to make our street safe again . this Bill will be very much welcome back in my constituency , with this government introduce 50 new law that will help to cut crime and make my area ' s street safe . they include measure to tackle antisocial behaviour and stop theft , particularly in shop , and to tackle street crime head on , give the police in our community new power to take back town centre from thug and thief and tackle knife crime , violence against woman and girl , cyber - crime , child sexual abuse and terrorism . that say , I be particularly pleased to see that this Bill deal with one particular issue . illegal off - road bike and e - scooter be a significant concern to many people in Mansfield . antisocial behaviour connect to their inappropriate use be raise with I time and time again on the doorstep during the election campaign , and it be now raise in my casework inbox . I will share one such example , from a constituent who recently contact I about this issue : " only yesterday whilst out with my husband do ' grandparent school duty ' we be yet again place in a serious and dangerous situation . several youth appear out of nowhere wear balaclavas weave around our vehicle before race off in different direction . the silence of they mean you have no awareness of they before they appear in front of your car " . many constituent report similar concern , and be exasperate that nothing can be do to deal with the issue . enough be enough , and I be delighted to announce after discussion I have have with local officer in Mansfield that the police be launch a crackdown over the come week to tackle antisocial behaviour in my constituency relate to off - road bike and e - scooter . as part of this crackdown , officer be appeal to the public to come forward via a new dedicated police email address — set up with my office and by the 101 phone line — to report any illegal bike - relate antisocial behaviour . use that information , officer will take significant enforcement action to target those who be terrorise our community in Mansfield . I will be work closely with the police during that campaign , and will be hold a public meeting with they on 21 March to explain how it will work . I would be delighted to update the Home Secretary on its progress . More information will be release by my office in the come day , but this crackdown will rely on my constituent act as the eye and ear on the ground . without their report , the project will not be a success , so I urge local people in Mansfield to get involve . to conclude , my message to those cause misery in Mansfield be this : " we see you . the police be come for you , and our community will not let you get away with it any long . " I encourage all hon . member to visit we in Derby and in Derby city centre . they will find a city that be firmly on the up , with a bright future ahead . our city centre regeneration project be full steam ahead . we be create fantastic cultural and community hub in Derby , whether that be our multimillion - pound revamp of our market hall , the completion of the Becketwell live arena or the University of Derby ' s new business school , all of which be set to open their door in the come month . I want everyone in our community to be able to take a walk around our city and feel proud and safe . however , although we be rightly excited about the future that Derby hold , we have to acknowledge the problem that the city centre face . our pride be test when we see fly - tipping on the side of the road . it be test again when we be worried about walk on the pavement because e - scooter be be use antisocially , and it be test far for shop worker who be worried about go to work because the previous day they be threaten during a shoplifting incident . lot of fantastic work be under way on these issue at a local level , such as the work of our police and crime commissioner , Nicolle Ndiweni - Roberts , and of Derbyshire constabulary . they be clamp down on illegal e - scooter , seize and dispose of more than 200 since last November alone . however , I and my constituent know that more need to be do so that they can feel proud and safe in the city we call home . for that reason , I welcome the measure introduce in today ' s Bill , which will go far to protect city centre such as Derby and their resident from antisocial behaviour and crime . whether they be employee at our central Co - op in Osmaston or at the Asda superstore in Sinfin , it be right that this Bill will introduce specific measure to protect they from retail crime . shockingly , 18 % of shop worker be assault in 2023 . nobody should fear go into work , which be why I be pleased that this Bill will make assault a shop worker a stand - alone offence . may I associate myself with my hon . friend ' s remark ? do he find it as absurd as I do that under the conservative there be effective immunity from shoplift good under £ 200 ? that mean that shoplifting rise by 60 % . do he therefore welcome the fact that that effective immunity be end , and that we be introduce a new criminal offence that will protect shop worker from be attack and assault , include those in my constituency who have complain about that ? I thank my hon . friend for that timely intervention . it be important that the £ 200 limit be be scrap . I have speak to many shop worker across Derby who have say that , literally on a daily basis , people be walk into the shop , load their bag and walk straight out , almost apologetically . this Bill also introduce tough action on knife crime , more power to support council to tackle fly - tipping and measure to let police seize vehicle such as e - scooter much fast if they be be use for antisocial purpose . the Bill will tackle violence against woman and girl by introduce a specific new offence for spike . I want every single person in Derby — I be sure everybody in this House want this for every single person across the country — to feel safe and to enjoy our city and the place where they live . this Bill represent a huge step forward in achieve that , and that be why I fully support it . after 14 year of Conservative Government , antisocial behaviour have become far too common . last year , 36 % of people report experience antisocial behaviour . police power to tackle criminal behaviour have be consistently weaken . our community have be leave expose , and we have hear many powerful example of that from member across the House today . that be why the measure in this Bill be so badly need . shoplifting , casual drug taking , reckless driving and neighbourhood intimidation may not seem overly significant on their own , but when commit persistently , these low - level act of antisocial behaviour make our community that bit less safe , one crime at a time . speak to resident on the doorstep in Jennett ' s Park in Great Hollands recently , I hear how a spate of car theft be make people lose sleep at night . Bracknell Forest be an incredible place to live , with a comparatively low crime rate , but whether it be drug take in our underpass , motorised bike be drive around our footpath or shoplifting target our shop , our community be feel the effect of the Tories ' weak response to crime and antisocial behaviour . last year , shoplift in Bracknell and Wokingham go up by 46 % . that be not just in the town centre , but across Bracknell Forest , include in Sandhurst , where one local convenience store have be repeatedly target and their staff threaten . I have see it myself , sit in a caf é of a local supermarket with the manager and watching as a shoplifter walk out of the shop . they be know to the staff , but there be little they could do to stop the frequent theft . I thank Thames Valley police for the work they be do to tackle this endemic shoplifting , and I be pleased to say that the precipitous rise be now slow down . however , the police need the right power in place if they be to get to grip with the problem . that be why it be so welcome that the Crime and Policing Bill will introduce tough new respect order to ban repeat offender from antisocial hotspot . we be introduce a new criminal offence to protect retail worker from abuse , thank to the fantastic campaigning by the Co - op party and USDAW . this Bill will scrap the Tory shoplifter ' charter , which mean that , under the previous Government , anyone catch shoplift good below £ 200 could escape prosecution . many of my constituent be also concern by the increase number of casual drug user on our street . in September , a mother write to I with concern about brazen drug dealing go on near the town centre and the impact that have on vulnerable group in the area . I have also hear concern from local parent that drug dealer be target young people as they leave school . that be why it be so important that the Crime and Policing Bill will introduce new police power to make drug - testing suspect on arrest easier , and respect order to allow police to crack down on those repeat offender frequent the same spot . these new power be an important step in deliver labour ' s safe street mission . my hon . friend be do a great job in explain some of the new power that the Bill will give our police . Police officer in my area to whom I have speak find it absurd that it have take until now to do so . do my hon . friend agree that these measure be such common sense that no reasonable party in the House should vote against they ? absolutely — and it would be great to see more Opposition Members here to support the measure . the power introduce by the Bill be indeed welcome , but under the last government we see a reduction in the use of power that already exist . in 2010 , Thames Valley police issue more than 6 , 000 antisocial behaviour notice — penalty notice for disorder — but in 2023 they issue only 412 , which be a 93 % decrease . as I have say , these new power be an important step in the delivery of Labour ' s safe street mission , but as well as give police the right power to crack down on antisocial behaviour — as my hon . friend mention — we need to give they the right resource . that be why it be so important that this Government have increase police funding by more than £ 1 billion , and the budget of Thames Valley police have be increase by 6 . 6 % . our safe street mission will see 13 , 000 additional police officer on Britain ' s street , along with a name , contactable officer in each community . that will help people to feel safe in their community again . the Tories introduce chaos on our street and in our community , and Labour will do the hard work that be need to bring back order and security . as the daughter and niece of retired police officer and with a cousin , Alex , currently serve for the same constabulary , I want to start by say a huge thank you to Hampshire police . it be a privilege to speak in this debate on a Bill that seek to strengthen law enforcement and restore public confidence in police . it be about the real experience of our constituent who have suffer as a result of crime and antisocial behaviour , and feel that the system be fail they . for example , in the first nine day of the financial year , the store manager of a Tesco Express in my constituency log 22 incident of shoplifting , trespass , verbal abuse and threat of violence . the Bill will ensure that the police have a mandate to act swiftly , especially in instance of repeat and organise retail crime , regardless of the value of the steal good . another constituent ' s car have be vandalise twice , and one incident be so severe that the car be write off . vandalism be not a minor inconvenience ; it be costly and distressing , and leave people feel unsafe in their own community . car theft also continue to plague my constituent . one resident ' s car have be steal four time , and the daughter of another have have she mope steal twice , even have to recover it herself on one occasion . that be not to mention the number of " tradie " who be subject to tool theft . the Bill will empower police force to take property crime more seriously , make it easy to track and recover steal vehicle , and more importantly , ensure that victim of theft receive timely police response . the scottish estate in Cosham , the London Road in Northend , Allaway Avenue in Paulsgrove and Tangiers Road in Baffins be just four of the many place where e - scooter , bike and car race deafeningly and dangerously in my constituency . I be pleased that the Bill remove the need of the police to issue a warning before seize vehicle be use antisocially . this be the start of a real crackdown on vehicle be use to intimidate pedestrian and increasingly commit crime . antisocial behaviour be destroy the quality of life for so many people . one of my constituent , an 80 - year - old woman , have suffer relentless harassment from a neighbour . her garden have be vandalise , furniture have be throw , and she have be physically intimidate . the Bill give the police strong power to tackle antisocial behaviour , and strengthen the use of exist antisocial behaviour power . the shadow of knife crime hang over my constituency . in the past two month alone , and even today , there have be two stabbing and an attempt murder involve two teenager . parent be write to I , terrify for their child ' s safety and demand action . some have even raise concern about the advertising of chef ' knife on television . I welcome the fact that this Bill provide the police with the power they need to take knife off our street , enforce tough penalty for possession and intervene early to prevent young people from be draw into violent crime , because knife crime kill . finally , a father have reach out to I to say he be deeply concerned about the safety of woman and girl in Portsmouth . his 15 - year - old daughter , who love run , have be catcall and harass multiple time , and she have not report it because she believe it would waste police time . as we know , low - level crime against woman can be a gateway to more serious crime , and I welcome the fact that this Bill bring in new protection for woman . this be not a Portsmouth - specific issue , and it be not a Labour issue , which be why it be shocking to see the lack of Opposition Members in this place today . all our constituent deserve to live in safe community , and they deserve their mp to make change and put those change into action . it be a pleasure to speak in support of this vital Bill , which will see the Labour Government deliver on the promise make at the last election to return our town centre to our constituent and make our street safe . this Bill address press issue that have long plague our society , and its provision be both timely and necessary , particularly on the sexual abuse of child , knife crime and economic crime . first , on child sexual abuse , the NSPCC have find that over 100 child sexual abuse image crime be record by the police every day . that be a horrifying statistic , and it should focus the mind of all of we in this place , which be why support victim and survivor be rightly the cornerstone of this Bill . I very much welcome the step take to ensure that our criminal justice system , which be neglect for far too long under previous conservative Governments , be well equip to handle such case effectively . secondly , the Bill ' s measure on knife crime , which have devastate family and community across the country , will also safeguard our child . I be one of the mps for Croydon , a place that continue to pay the price for the previous Government ' s inaction on knife crime and youth violence . do my hon . friend agree that when it come to youth violence , we have to focus on prevention , and do he welcome the introduction of the Young Futures programme so that we can prevent young people from get draw into crime in the first place ? I absolutely agree that prevention be fundamental , especially when it come to youth crime . the senseless killing of seven - year - old Emily Jones in Queen ' s park , Bolton , in 2020 be horrify . Knife crime incident have be on the rise in town such as Bolton for a number of year , so we owe it to Emily and her family , and to all those who have be affect by knife crime , to take bold action and to take it now . to this end , I be pleased to see that the Bill introduce tough sentencing for repeat offender and strengthen the police ' s power to seize dangerous weapon before they be use to cause harm . thirdly , a number of the crime that I have detail be enable by economic crime , such as money laundering and fraud . indeed , we hear early from the shadow Home Secretary about crime statistic . what I would say to those on the Opposition Benches be that we have see a fraud epidemic over the last few year , and case be allow to spiral out of control under previous Conservative Administrations . frankly , they be ignore by the shadow Home Secretary when he be a Minister . indeed , April 2022 to March 2023 see 3 . 5 million case of fraud in this country — 40 % of all crime , accord to the ONS . by remove the ability of criminal to launder their ill - get gain in the clean economy , we can remove the primary incentive for the behaviour that drive so much of the criminal activity that we have be debate tonight . indeed , have spend almost 15 year tackle economic crime , I particularly welcome the new provision in the Bill to cap court cost for enforcement agency , which the conservative party never address . too often , our law enforcement body face intolerable financial risk when pursue the recovery of ill - get gain from deep - pocket crook with expensive lawyer . one minor mistake by the National Crime Agency or the Serious Fraud Office can wipe out a whole year ' s budget . that have have a chilling effect on the risk appetite of agency to tackle those suspect of serious and organised crime , which drive so much of the criminality that we be debate tonight . by introduce cost protection in clause 103 , the Government be rightly level the play field for enforcement agency and those who be charge . this will send a powerful message about the rule of law in this country , which be that no matter how rich or well connected someone be , if they be engage in criminal behaviour , justice will be do . we be in a very challenging place when it come to the public finance , and the tax burden bequeath by the conservative party to my constituent be already far too high , which bring I to a specific proposal that I would urge the Minister to consider as the Bill progress through this place . economic crime cost we around £ 300 billion every year , yet less than 1 % of police resource be dedicate to tackle it , so why not make the criminal pay ? a cross - governmental economic crime fighting fund would use the reinvested proceed of regulatory and criminal fine , asset recovery and defer prosecution agreement to provide sustainable funding and increase firepower for our enforcement agency ’ capability . I hope the Minister will respond to this ask for a sustainable and innovative solution in her wind - up . the Bill provide a much - need shake - up for crime and police in this country . it will return our street and town centre to our constituent and deliver justice where too often it be deny . I be very happy to be able to speak and to add my support to this Bill , and I appreciate the depth and ambition of the measure that have be bring forward . when I meet my local police officer in Bristol and South Gloucestershire , I see a committed group of man and woman completely dedicated to public service , but I also see that morale be low . police number in Avon and Somerset have fall , with the number of pcso drop from 424 in 2010 to 255 today . after 14 year of cut , officer question if they be appreciate . for our police , I hope that this Bill be see as a demonstration of the confidence that we have in they and the respect we have for the difficult job they do . I welcome the step take to let police get on with their job , include search premise where phone be geolocate , confiscate illegal road bike and introduce respect order , as well as lift the £ 200 cap on when officer will investigate shoplifting . there be also the new protection for shop worker such as the woman I have meet work in Boots in Kingswood and the PDSA — People ' s Dispensary for Sick Animals — charity shop in Kingswood , which be just two of the shop blight day in and day out by shoplifter . on a different aspect of the Bill , we have see the struggle and confusion in relation to police public order at protest . protest be a cornerstone of our democracy , but we have see example of protest that have become hateful , have incite violence and have become violent . fine for climb on war memorial and ban face covering will help maintain public order , and I hope the police know that they have our support to act when they see wrongdoing . as the Bill progress , I would ask Ministers to consider how robust the exemption be for face covering , as they may be open to misuse . for example , the health exemption could have very broad interpretation . on knife crime , officer in my patch certainly welcome the change , but they be concerned about how unscrupulous knife manufacturer could adapt to sell knife that , while technically legal , still glamorise violence . in the past year , I have get to know a woman call Hayley Ryall , the mother of Mikey Roynon from Kingswood , who be tragically kill at a birthday party when he be stab by three young man in June 2023 . Mikey be a beautiful young man , and he be just 16 when he be kill . with the ongoing trial of serious violence reduction order in Thames Valley , the West Midlands , Merseyside and Sussex come to their conclusion this year , Hayley have ask I when a decision will be make on the wide roll - out of serious violence reduction order and when that will take place . all these measure will only have the full effect if we have the officer on our street to police they . Avon and Somerset recently receive a £ 27 million uplift in funding , and I look forward to see this money use for more recruitment and to support our exist officer . there be much to fix — we all know that — and these measure go a good way to put the balance of power back towards law and order . I rise to support the Bill and to commend the Government for bring forward such a robust response to the scourge of retail crime that affect community across our country , include my constituent in Banbury , Chipping Norton , Charlbury and the village of north and west Oxfordshire . in my constituency , shoplifting offence increase by 25 % between March 2022 and March 2024 . this be a deeply concern trend , not only for shopkeeper but for the local community they serve . shoplift cost the average UK convenience store £ 6 , 259 a year . these cost be often pass on through the price that customer pay , or be reflect in the serious question that those shop face about their viability . the importance of our local shop ' financial viability be particularly pronounce in rural area such as Hook Norton , Enstone and Bloxham in my constituency , where they be not just business but essential service that form part of the fabric of the community . this Bill send a clear and powerful message that rise rate of shoplifting will not be tolerate under this Government . the removal of the effective immunity for shop theft under £ 200 will help to deter petty thief and repeat offender who have exploit that loophole . by close the gap , the Bill ensure that every crime , no matter how small and seemingly petty , will be take seriously . the measure outline in the Bill be precisely what shopkeeper in my constituency have be call for . not only do the Bill clamp down on shoplifting , but it introduce a new offence of assault a retail worker . this provision stand firmly by those who serve our community day in and day out . shop worker deserve to feel safe in their workplace , and this new offence rightly acknowledge the seriousness of the threat and violence they face on a daily basis . this comprehensive and well - consider Bill deliver on this Government ' s promise to make our street safe and to protect the people who keep our community run . I commend the Home Secretary , the ministerial team and the Government for their decisive action , which will benefit rural community , as well as community the length and breadth of the country . I urge all hon . member to support it . it be a pleasure to speak in support of the Bill , which respond to the concern of many in Leyton and Wanstead . in October , my Adjournment debate highlight the terrible impact of antisocial behaviour in Leytonstone , include in the Avenue Road estate , Selby Road and the surround area . despite good engagement from the police and council leader , resident still face hotspot of drug injecting , vandalism and abuse in public space . this create fear and make family feel that their street no long belong to they . the response of the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention be encouraging , commit to the respect order now in this Bill , and I thank she for her visit to Leyton and Wanstead last November . this Bill address key issue . the new legislation on cuckoo in chapter 2 of part 4 will tackle home use for drug taking , which be particularly see in area such as Leytonstone . respect order will enhance local initiative such as mandatory drug programme , Project Adder and address public drinking in area such as Jubilee Road . part 3 deliver on our pledge to introduce a special offence for assault on shop worker , and it strengthen penalty for shoplifting . persistent , violent shoplifting have take hold . a staff member at Church Lane Sainsbury ' s in Leytonstone say , " each and every day it ' s go mad . shoplifter roam the street from six in the morning every day . we be lose more than £ 500 . our safety be on the line . " in South Woodford , the Co - op have repeatedly be attack . when a constituent step in to help , they be threaten with a glass bottle . the nearby Boots have face repeat theft , with some shoplifter return four or five time a day . constituent describe the fear of retail staff and sadness that child might grow up see this situation as normal . it be not normal . we must ensure that our child do not grow up think that the high street be a criminal ' playground . we must ensure that no shop worker face daily threat . we must acknowledge the role that USDAW have play in address these issue . I ask the Minister to provide a view on how the law may be extend to protect transport worker , as propose by the Transport Salaried Staffs Association in its recent report , which highlight the extent of the violence its member face . I welcome the measure enable police to target location store steal good , which often double as hub for drug dealing . the Bill will enable more effective , co - ordinate police response , but we must go far . the return of 13 , 500 police officer be vital , as be our name neighbourhood police officer , but we must also reduce the high abstraction rate that remove those officer from our street . that be what the people of Leyton and Wanstead deserve , and I hope the Government will go far in this regard . I be proud to support the Bill today . in High Peak , our five major town — Buxton , Glossop , New Mills , Chapel - en - le - Frith and Whaley Bridge — have all be affect in different way by the crime the Bill seek to address . our town centre be the heart of our community . at their good , they bring people together and create a sense of pride and belong . when antisocial behaviour , theft and shoplifting be allow to take root , it affect not just the victim , but the whole community . sadly , the previous Government all too often write those crime off as low level and leave our community feel powerless . this Bill be for all the people I have meet on the doorstep and who have come to my surgery in High Peak — people who want a Government on their side , who would take these crime seriously . this Bill be for the retail worker and business owner who have to deal with shoplifting day in , day out . the previous Government effectively decriminalise shoplifting of good worth less than £ 200 , but this Bill will end the Tory shoplifter ' charter and go far by introduce a new criminal offence to well protect retail worker from assault . this Bill be for all those who want our street to be safe and pride to be restore to our community . at the end of February , derbyshire police have to put in place a dispersal order for two whole day in Glossop in order to tackle antisocial behaviour . the Bill will extend those power to 72 hour . through the new respect order , it send a clear message to persistent troublemaker : " we see you , we will disrupt you , and we will make your life as difficult as you have make the life of other . " do my hon . friend agree that it be good news that at last we have a Government who be do something about the scourge of off - road bike and dangerous e - scooter on the pavement and in our park by give the police new power to seize those vehicle immediately , instead of let the problem continue ? although this should have happen much soon , it will make the life of my resident in Chelsea and Fulham , and people across the country , happy and safe . order . by way of be helpful , I remind right hon . and hon . member that when they make intervention , they should address they to the Chair , and not to other member , so there can be no confusion in the debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I thoroughly agree that the new power will be hugely helpful , both in his constituency and in my own . this Bill be for our child and the most vulnerable in our community . the hot circle of hell be reserve for anyone who exploit and abuse a child . the independent inquiry into child sex abuse , which be set up by the Conservatives in 2015 , take seven year to complete and cost £ 200 million , make 20 recommendation . shamefully , the previous Government do not implement a single one . this Bill will right that wrong . we will introduce statutory reporting for instance of child sex abuse , groom behaviour will be an aggravating factor , and there will be new power to search for instance of child sex abuse on digital device of individual arrive in the UK . we will go far by go after the gang that seek to exploit child for criminal purpose . it be estimate that 14 , 000 child be at risk or involve in criminal exploitation , and sadly , some of those victim be in High Peak . from police and school , I have hear heartbreaking story of child be force into drug dealing , of home be take over by drug dealer , and of young life ruin . the weak law that the previous Government leave we mean that authority be powerless to act in many case . our new law will make it a criminal offence for adult to use child to commit criminal offence such as drug run , organise robbery and the new offence of cuckooing . the vile gang that exploit child in High Peak for criminal gain be the low of the low , and I will be support Derbyshire police to use the full extent of the new law to drive they out of our community . this Bill be for woman and girl . for international Women ' s day , I hold a joint event with Crossroads Derbyshire , an incredible charity that work to support domestic abuse survivor . crossroad have a new stalk advocacy service , fund by the Labour police and crime commissioner ' s office . the Bill will strengthen the police ' s response to stalk and give victim the right to know the identity of online stalker . let the message go out from here today to stalker : " there will be no hiding place for you on our street or online . " this Bill be for everyone who believe in the rule of law and that there should be zero tolerance for those who threaten our security and safety . it be for those who want to take back control of our street and community . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate as the son of a local bobby — my mum work for 20 year in the local police , serve her community , and I could not be more proud of she . my father , too , be a local bobby , as be his father before he , so my family have something of a reputation . I be , of course , delight to see the Government ' s recommitment to neighbourhood police after 14 year of neglect . my mum often speak about the importance of a neighbourhood police officer understand her community , who the troublemaker be , how to calm tension and how to make people feel safe . for people across my constituency , feel safe be what they care about most . they do not feel safe when they see rise rate of knife crime among our young people , or antisocial behaviour on our high street . they worry that they never see the police on the street any more . how we get into this situation be no mystery . cut to neighbourhood police by the last Government leave a huge gap in our community . before the recent uplift , the west midland have 700 few police officer than it do under the last Labour Government in 2010 . People in Halesowen want to feel safe in their home , on their street and in their public space . they want to trust that the police have the resource , funding and support necessary to do their job . two of my constituent , Mr and Mrs Lobodzic , have be in touch to tell I about the impact that antisocial behaviour have have on their life . resident of Cradley Heath , they have be subject to harassment , intimidation and unchecked antisocial behaviour , and they have feel unsafe in their own home . the lack of accountability for those responsible have leave they feel hopeless and abandon . the Bill take the essential step need to address antisocial behaviour such as that experience by my constituent . the new respect order can be impose on individual who have engage in , or threaten to engage in , antisocial behaviour . importantly , breach a respect order now constitute a criminal offence . for my constituent in Halesowen , that will provide much - need reassurance that their concern be be take seriously , and that those who disrupt the peace will face real consequence . Deputy Chief Constable Andy Prophet , who lead on antisocial behaviour for the National Police Chiefs ' Council , say : " respect order will give the police and council the ability to crack down on those who persistently make our street and public space feel unsafe . " although those measure be promise , it be important that they go hand in hand with another critical demand from my constituent : the visible presence of police officer . People want to see their local officer regularly patrol their street , just as my mum use to do . that be why I be pleased to see , alongside the Bill , the introduction of the neighbourhood policing guarantee , which will ensure the deployment of an additional 13 , 000 police officer , pcso and special constable into neighbourhood policing role . by reinforce community police , we will not only deter and prevent crime , but strengthen the response to emergency and enhance trust between the police and the public . in Halesowen we be fortunate to have dedicated and exemplary police officer such as Sergeant Nichola Chester , and pcso such as Nathan Fung , as member of our excellent but stretch neighbourhood team . it be vital that their effort be bolster with the resource and manpower that they need to maintain safety and security . the Bill be a critical step towards achieve that goal . the people of Halesowen deserve to live without fear , to walk our street with confidence and to know that their Government be steadfast in their commitment to their safety . the Bill , with its focus on tackle antisocial behaviour and reinvigorate neighbourhood policing , represent a decisive step in the right direction , and I be pleased to support it . I rise to support the Government ' s Crime and Policing Bill . the last time I address the House on police I share the fact that the borough of Redbridge , which I lead , once have five police station , but after a decade of conservative cut only one remain stand . that be not just a fact but a direct reflection of how the conservative party deprioritise police and fail to protect our resident , friend and neighbour . when we deprioritise policing , we do more than weaken law enforcement ; we allow crime to spiral out of control , we expose our community to harm and we erode the very fabric of our society . the Bill be a crucial step in reverse 14 year of neglect and ensure tough consequence for criminal behaviour . it tackle a wide range of issue , from knife crime to terrorism , but I want to focus on a matter that affect our daily life : antisocial behaviour . for too long it have be treat as low - level or even trivial crime , but in Ilford South and across the UK it be anything but trivial . it erode community trust and often pave the way for more serious criminal activity . we see antisocial behaviour on the ground , in the nitrous oxide canister litter our street . we see it in our local shop , where retail worker face shoplifter daily . we see it on our street , where young girl , often in school uniform , endure harassment from man much old than they . antisocial behaviour be not just an inconvenience but a warning sign . last year , two teenager stab staff member at Goodmayes station . they be also charge with a prior robbery incident at a nearby Tesco . that be what happen when we turn a blind eye to so - call low - level crime : it escalate , pose an even big threat to our community . that be why I welcome the Bill . it make a clear statement that antisocial behaviour will no long be tolerate . I be particularly pleased to see the scrapping of the effective immunity for shoplifting of good under £ 200 , and strong protection for retail worker against assault . when worker in our shop , supermarket and local business can not feel safe , and we can not feel safe do our weekly shopping , the system have fail . by end the decriminalisation of so - call low - level theft , we be ensure that our local town centre be protect to thrive . safety be about not just theft of property but the right to go about our daily life and walk our street without fear or intimidation . when I be leader of Redbridge council , we take decisive action to make our street safe for woman and girl . we be the first council to use public space protection order to punish those catcall and harass woman and girl . I be pleased to see the strengthening of those protection order in the Bill , and the introduction of respect order , which will ensure that community across the country have the power to tackle nuisance , harassment and intimidation on our street . we all deserve to feel safe in our home , on our street , in our shop and in our school . the Bill begin to turn our promise into reality . in common with hon . member from across the House , this debate be of paramount importance to the people in my constituency . the Labour Government have inherit a shameful legacy from the conservative party , which have 14 year to address criminality and antisocial behaviour but instead leave our community feel unsafe . the situation in Scotland have frightening similarity , with the SNP Government fail community across Scotland . since the SNP introduce its under - 22 bus pass initiative , many of my constituent have tell I that they be now afraid to visit Kilmarnock bus station or even use local bus service . this be not about demonise young people — far from it , as they be more likely to be victim of crime and antisocial behaviour than the perpetrator of it — but it be wrong to ignore the significant minority who make life a misery for other . Scotland badly need labour ' s respect order to effectively tackle the minority ' behaviour that have be intimidate our community for far too long . labour ' s respect order will deliver strong power for our police in Scotland , help they to keep our community safe , but , yet again , Scotland be be let down by the SNP and its inaction . similarly , the bus pass scheme , which should be something to be celebrate , have create a situation where people of all age be now think twice about use their local bus service . as my friend the Scottish Labour leader Anas Sarwar say , " under - 22 that be find to have repeatedly act violently on bus " should have their free bus pass take off they . that should be obvious — right should come with responsibility — and it be shameful that there be currently no mechanism to withdraw a free bus pass from someone who have be abuse one . that need to change . it be totally unacceptable to see chronic antisocial behaviour continue with no effective action from the SNP . the Crime and Policing Bill demonstrate that Labour be on the side of law - abide people , and I will be proud to vote for the Bill at the conclusion of the debate . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I take this opportunity to thank our brave , hard - work police officer , pcso , police staff and volunteer for the huge sacrifice they make to keep our street safe . I thank all hon . member across the House for their consider and concise contribution . the Bill cover a wide array of offence , and we all welcome that . tackle criminality mean equip the police and enforcement agency with the power that they need to lock up dangerous perpetrator to make our street safe . the Bill contain meaningful and impactful provision , particularly in relation to knife crime , car theft , retail crime , the sharing of intimate image , child sexual abuse , drug testing and cuckoo among many other . it be generous of the Government to hold the previous Conservative Government ' s work in such high esteem : in fact , about two third of the measure in the Bill be copy straight from the previous Government . as be say — I think on several occasion — it be a copy - and - paste job that even the Chancellor would blush over . I thank my right hon . friend the Members for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) and for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , alongside many other past and current member of the House , for their significant work in ensure that those offence be include in the scope of the Bill . that work will ultimately have a positive impact on the life of all our constituent . time do not allow I to talk through all the measure in the Bill [ Hon . member : " oh . " ] I know that hon . member be disappoint , but I will focus on a few important provision . first , let I turn to retail crime . as hon . member across this House may know , have serve as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the future of retail and as a former Woolies worker — no one ever question whether I be old enough — I have be very involved in the campaign to protect our retail worker . I have join the like of the hon . member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , Paul Gerrard from the Co - op , Helen Dickinson and the team at the British Retail Consortium , the Association of Convenience Stores , USDAW , numerous retailer and other who have work to deliver more protection for our retail worker . back in 2021 — during my slightly rebellious phase — I table an amendment that help we to make an assault on a person provide a service to the public a statutory aggravating offence . more recently in April 2024 , alongside a suite of measure design to tackle retail crime , we see the last Government agree to the creation of a stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker . I be glad that that will be take up by the incumbent Government and hope that it will have a real impact and improve the life of these important key worker in high street and store across the country . I have two concern , however , about the Bill regard retail crime . first , the previous Government ' s plan have propose to make it mandatory for the court to impose at least a curfew requirement , an exclusion requirement or an electronic monitoring requirement on repeat offender convict of shoplifting or the new offence of assault a retail worker and sentence to a community order or a suspend sentence . that have be welcome by retailer , but the Bill do not include any provision to this effect . I urge the Government to look again at this , to ensure that we be do all we can to protect retail worker and avoid what appear to be the watering down of potential protection . secondly , on the plan to remove the £ 200 threshold for shoplifting , while the rhetoric sound positive , it be untrue to say that theft under £ 200 be ever decriminalise . in fact , the Government ' s own impact assessment tell we that 90 % of charge for shoplifting relate to property worth less than £ 200 . there be a fear that measure will lead to further delay to justice be do while not lead to tough or long sentence . victim of retail crime deserve swift justice , not year - long delay while perpetrator continue to offend . I turn now to further legislative step that I hope Members across the House will find difficult to oppose . one hugely important measure be the introduction of a statutory aggravating factor , require sentence court to treat groom behaviour as an aggravating factor when consider the seriousness of child sexual offence . the opposition believe that the Government should go far and establish a national statutory inquiry , but it be right that they have bring forward this measure from the Criminal Justice Bill . it recognise the severity of the offence and ensure that third party involve in the heinous practice of these rape gang face justice and punishment . we must take every step possible to protect the most vulnerable and ensure that strong law be in place so that the terrible crime of the past can not be repeat . another key measure in the Bill , contain in clause 96 to 100 , expand the ability to conduct drug test upon arrest . the expansion of the drug testing on arrival programme , introduce by the previous Conservative Government , have already demonstrate the sheer number of individual find to be under the influence of substance when arrest . between March 2022 and September 2024 , police force report a total of 154 , 295 test to the Home Office . of these , 86 , 207 , or 56 % , be positive for cocaine , opiate or both . it be therefore right that we expand the drug testing programme to cover as wide a range of class b and c drug as possible , allow the police to access the information they need to manage offender appropriately within the criminal justice system . I also welcome the effort to tackle off - road bike . have see their impact on my constituent , I hope that during the passage of the Bill we might consider go even far , maybe even consider suggestion make by Government Back Benchers . we must use this opportunity to ensure that the police have the power they need , and to examine where further power be require to ensure that the law truly serve the victim of crime and provide a level of openness and transparency for our police force so that people can have confidence in our justice system . additionally , we should all want to see the police do what they do good : on the beat , prevent and investigate crime . their time should not be waste on matter that the public do not consider a priority . time and again , we see report of police officer be send to respond to incident that be not criminal in nature while serious offence on our street go unchallenged . the measure in this Bill to tackle antisocial behaviour signal an understanding that remove crime from our street must be a priority . however , we must consider whether more can be do legislatively to ensure that police time be use effectively . I must stress that all the well - mean measure contain in the Bill be meaningless without a well - fund police force . force be — [ interruption . ] force — some lead by Labour police and crime commissioner — be raise legitimate concern about the level of funding they will receive from the Government . any reduction in police number undermine every element of this Bill , weaken the police ' s ability to tackle crime across the country . the head of the Metropolitan police have raise his concern about potential job loss in our capital city — a city where 30 % of England and Wales ' s knife crime occur . I should note at this point that it be very welcome to see the Government reintroduce many of the measure on tackle knife crime put forward in the Criminal Justice Bill by the previous Conservative Government , include a power to retain and destroy bladed article on private property and to increase the maximum penalty for the sale of dangerous weapon to under - 18 . give that the financial pressure face by police force amount to an estimate £ 118 million shortfall , there be a real concern that the Government ' s action will contribute to a decline in police number . the Government ' s police funding increase mask the Chancellor ' s national insurance hike on our police force and their failure to build police pay award into the baseline . move forward , we will have ample opportunity as a House to scrutinise the legislation and consider potential improvement . read the impact assessment and economic note accompany the Bill reveal uncertainty about the effect of its various measure . notably , there be a lack of clarity regard the number of individual expect to be imprison for certain offence , with significant variation in the estimate provide . the Government must back our police over the criminal and demonstrate the political will to do so . they must provide police with the resource and robust power they need to keep officer on the beat , deliver swift justice for victim and , in turn , make our street safe . this Bill be a step forward . across the House , we all need to support our police officer to tackle the heinous crime — will the shadow Minister give way ? go for it . Hooray ! thank you . on swift justice , will the Opposition Front Bench bring forward amendment regard the shadow Home Secretary ' s position on citizen ' s arrest ? how many amendment can we expect to see about how the police should respond to citizen ' s arrest ? what the shadow Home Secretary be do in office be put more police on the country ' s street than ever before — 149 , 679 police officer . we hope the Government will maintain that as we move forward , but there be lot of question mark around that . we all need to support our police officer to tackle the heinous crime that we have hear about in the debate . I hope the Government remain open to consider measure propose by Opposition and Government Members who be committed to robustly tackle the very behaviour that this legislation seek to prevent . it be an honour and privilege to wind up the debate on what be , as the Home Secretary set out in her opening speech , a critically important Bill . it be critically important for all sort of reason , many of which have be highlight during the debate . it have be a wide - range discussion , which be unsurprise give the Bill ' s scope and breadth . there have be many excellent and powerful contribution , particularly from the Government Benches , with over 57 back - Bench speaker . there be a thread that bind all the Bill ' s measure together : this Government ' s unwavere commitment to the security of our country and the safety of our community and people we all represent . we be on the side of the law - abide majority , who have have enough after 14 year of conservative government . this Bill will support and progress our safe street mission , which be integral to the Government ' s plan for change . we be determined to rebuild neighbourhood policing , restore confidence in the criminal justice system and reduce the harm cause by crime . we have already take action to strengthen the response to threat , include knife crime , antisocial behaviour and violence against woman and girl , but to deliver the change that the british people want and deserve , we must go far , and this Bill will allow we to do that . it be evident from the debate that there be broad cross - party support for many of the Bill ' s measure . it have be helpful to have the insight and experience of hon . member who have previously serve as police officer — my hon . friend the Members for Pendle and Clitheroe ( Jonathan Hinder ) and for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) — as well as the wise word from a former Crown prosecutor who now sit on the Government Benches , my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . many of my hon . friend welcome the commitment to neighbourhood policing , the focus on antisocial behaviour , the introduction of respect order and the new power for vehicle be use for antisocial behaviour . in fact , there be a very long list of those Members : my hon . friend the Members for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) , for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) , for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) , for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) , for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) , for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) and for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) . they all speak with great passion about their constituency and the effect that antisocial behaviour have have on their community . similarly , many hon . friend speak about retail crime and the ending of the shoplifter ’ charter , and welcome the new offence that will well protect retail worker . we hear about that from my hon . friend the Members for Banbury ( Sean Woodcock ) , for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , for St Helens North ( David Baines ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) and for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) . member speak eloquently in support of the new offence to tackle child criminal exploitation , stalk , cuckooing , spiking and knife crime , include my hon . friend the Members for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) , for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) , for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) . I also pay tribute to the member who have campaign on these issue for some time , include the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and my hon . friend the Members for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) . the measure for which they have be campaign be in the Bill . I say to the right hon . Gentleman , who we recognise be a doughty campaigner , that we be certainly consider dangerous cycling in detail . in the limited time available to I , I will focus on a few of the point raise throughout the debate , but there will clearly be opportunity during line - by - line scrutiny in Committee to debate all the matter raise this evening fully and properly . I will start with the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who ask a number of question — some of which be not a surprise , give his focus on technology in particular . in his speech , he seem to be suffer from amnesia about what have happen to police and crime over the past 14 year . it be worth gently remind he that , in the period from April to June last year , when his government be still in post and , in fact , he be Policing Minister , police number be go down . I just think that I would gently remind he of that , because he obviously need a bit of help to recall what be happen on his watch . of course , neighbourhood policing be decimate under the previous Government . let I get to some of the specific question that the shadow Home Secretary want I to answer . we all agree that rough sleeping and nuisance begging be complex issue . we be work closely with the Deputy Prime Minister and her Department to ensure that such individual , who be often vulnerable , be appropriately support — that be set against our commitment to stand by the police and effectively tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . as it stand , the Vagrancy Act 1824 remain in force , and we know that police force in many area also use the ASB power to tackle the antisocial behaviour associate with beg and rough sleeping . the shadow Home Secretary also ask about the provision to compel offender to attend sentencing hearing . as announce in the King ' s Speech in 2024 , those measure will be introduce in the forthcoming victim , court and public protection Bill . will the Minister give way ? I would really like to get on actually . the shadow Home Secretary have quite a lot of time at the beginning of the debate , and I would like to respond to the Back Benchers who have spend many hour in the Chamber in order to make their point . however , in response to a question that he ask about knife scan technology , the Home Office be still work with industry partner to develop system that be specifically design to detect at a distance knife conceal on a person . that work be part of the Innovation competition that be launch last year , and phase one be expect to be deliver by the end of May , result in the first prototype system . facial recognition be mention by the shadow Home Secretary and a number of hon . member , and such technology be an important tool to help the police to identify offender more quickly and accurately . it be show significant potential to increase police productivity and effectiveness , and it could substantially contribute to our safe street mission . we need to support the police by ensure that they have clarity , especially where there be a balance to strike between ensure public safety and safeguard the right of individual . I will be consider the option for that , alongside broad police reform that will be in the White Paper later in the spring . public order , particularly the issue of protest , be raise by a number of hon . member include my hon . friend the Members for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and for Bristol North East ( Damien Egan ) , and the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) . the right to peaceful protest be a fundamental part of our democracy , and we be fully commit to protect and preserve that right . however , it be vital that we strike the right balance between the right to protest and the right of the wide community . I be sure we will debate that issue more fully in Committee . we will also be carry out expedite post - legislative scrutiny of the Public Order Act 2023 , begin in May . that process will look at how the legislation have operate since come into force , and we will consider carefully the output of that review . my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) ask I to confirm that any amendment to the Bill on the subject of abortion will be subject to a free vote . all woman have access to safe legal abortion on the NHS up to 24 week , include take early medical abortion pill at home where eligible . we recognise that this be an extremely sensitive issue , and there be strongly hold view on all side of the discussion . my hon . friend will understand that whip on the Government Benches be a matter for the Government Chief Whip . my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) speak knowledgably about the issue of mandatory reporting . he refer particularly to religious group and speak about the Jehovah ' s witness , and he ask for a meeting to discuss the matter far . the purpose of mandatory reporting be obviously to improve the protection of child , and our aim be to create a culture of support , knowledge and openness when deal with child sexual abuse . that be why we consider it more appropriate for those who fail to discharge their duty to face referral to the Disclosure and Barring Service , and professional regulator where applicable . those body can prevent individual from work with child , potentially lose their livelihood , which be a serious consequence . the strong possible sanction will apply to individual where deliberate action have be take to obstruct a report be make under the duty . anyone who seek to prevent a reporter from carry out their duty to report will face the prospect of up to seven year ' imprisonment . my hon . friend the Members for Gower and for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , and the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) ask whether the Bill could be use to reform our prostitution law . I assure hon . member that the Government be commit to tackle the harm and exploitation that can be associate with prostitution , and ensure that woman who want to leave prostitution be give every opportunity to find route out . the Government be closely monitor new approach that be be develop in Northern Ireland and part of mainland Europe , work closely with the voluntary and community sector , and the police , to ensure that the safeguarding of woman remain at the heart of our approach . the repeal of part 4 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 be also raise regard unauthorised encampment , include by my hon . friend the Members for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and for Liverpool Riverside . I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . the Government be consider the High Court ' s decision and will respond in due course . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) raise question about the application of certain provision in the Bill to Northern Ireland . I assure he and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who raise similar question , that we be continue to discuss with the Minister for Justice in Northern Ireland whether further provision in the Bill should apply to Northern Ireland . question about domestic abuse be raise by the Liberal Democrat home affair spokesperson , the hon . member for Hazel Grove , and by the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . as be discuss in the debate , domestic abuse cover a wide range of behaviour and be already consider by the court as a factor that increase the seriousness of offending , which may lead to an increase in the length of a sentence . I be sure that the Minister for Safeguarding would be happy to talk to the hon . member for Eastbourne about his specific concern about the current legislation . in conclusion , this be a wide - range and ambitious Bill . it have the straightforward purpose of make our country safe . it will achieve that by restore neighbourhood policing , by give law enforcement strong power to combat threat that ruin life and livelihood , and by rebuild public confidence in the criminal justice system . it be clear that people around the country want change . they want to feel protect by a visible , responsive police service ; they want to know that when our law our break , justice will be seek and serve ; and they want to have a sense of security and confidence , so that they can go about their life freely and without fear . that be why we have put the safe street mission at the heart of our plan for change , and it be why we have bring forward this Bill , which I wholeheartedly commend to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . crime and Policing Bill : Programme Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Crime and Policing Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 13 May 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . business without Debate Statutory Instruments ( Joint Committee ) order , that Ms Julie Minns and Gordon McKee be discharge from the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments and Andrew Pakes and Gareth Snell be add . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition - Reading Football Club I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of reading and supporter of read football club . over 600 people have sign the paper petition and over 10 , 000 have sign an online version , show the strength of feeling from local fan group who wish to keep our club alive . reading be not the only club to have suffer from ownership problem . in fact , too many club across the country have do so , show the importance of learn from our experience at Reading . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Culture , Media and Sport Select Committee and the Business and Trade Select Committee to launch an inquiry into the ownership and governance affair of Reading Football Club since 29 May 2012 on ground of public interest , with a particular focus on the governance of Reading Football Club since May 2017 . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of reading and supporter of Reading Football Club , declare that : ( i ) since 29 May 2012 , ownership of read Football Club ( " RFC " ) and its material asset have pass through a number of different owner , follow a period of sustained success under the custodianship of Sir John Madejski . ( ii ) the ownership change culminate in the ultimate beneficial owner of RFC become Mr Dai Yongge and Ms Dai Xiu Li in May 2017 . the Dais have oversee a deterioration in all material affair of RFC , prejudice the sustainability of RFC . ( iii ) the Dais express openness to sell RFC in September 2023 but no sale , or commitment to such a sale , have yet take place , despite numerous well - publicise expression of interest . ( iv ) the circumstance surround RFC ' s deterioration , and the lengthy , unsuccessful sale process conduct by the Dais be unclear , with limited information make available to stakeholder in RFC and misinformation rife . ( v ) under the Football Governance Bill , an " Independent Football Regulator " ( " IFR " ) will assume responsibility for regulation of professional football in England , include in relation to financial sustainability and fan engagement matter . ( vi ) an inquiry into the circumstance reference in paragraph ( iv ) above would likely identify area for consideration by the IFR which ought to be take into account in design the framework under which the IFR will operate . it will also help identify which stakeholder , past and present , be ultimately responsible for the deterioration of RFC , provide supporter of RFC and other stakeholder with a much - need explanation for the same , and contribute towards a successful outcome to RFC ' s current sustainability crisis . an inquiry can also help we know how to avoid this ever happen again to any other club . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Culture , Media and Sport Select Committee and the Business and Trade Select Committee to launch an inquiry into the ownership and governance affair of Reading Football Club since 29 May 2012 on ground of public interest , with a particular focus on the governance of Reading Football Club since May 2017 . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003051 ] Town Deal funding : Owens in Hastings Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I have call this debate about Owens in Hastings , the short - live family fun factory whose board - up front be a familiar and depressing sight to anyone who have walk through our town centre . we be certainly not the only town to have experience board - up shopfront , which have become all too common on high street around the country . the reason I be here speak about this at 10 pm be that Owens have come to symbolise for our community much more than a mere eyesore . under the Conservative Government ' s levelling - up plan , Owens receive £ 150 , 000 of taxpayer ' money . at the grand opening of Owens , it be reveal that the owner behind it be Lubov Chernukhin , a millionaire who have donate more than £ 2 . 4 million to the conservative party . do Ms Chernukhin , a millionaire owner , really need a top - up from the taxpayer to fund such a venture ? be that truly the good use of the money give to Hastings to improve our town ? none of that make any sense to my constituent . it get bad . Owens close shortly after opening , and the desert , board - up building now dominate our town centre in Hastings . the staff be lay off with no notice , and many people who supply the business and help with the building work have say that they have not be pay for their work . the closure of Owens , which be now cover in wooden boarding , leave a stain on our community . Owens have now be close for 18 month . what have Ms Chernukhin be do in that time ? the answer be : donate vast sum of money to the conservative party . it be a shame that no Conservative Members be here to hear this , because they might like to hear that the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who sit on the Conservative Front Bench , recently accept a £ 70 , 000 donation from Ms Chernukhin , who be clearly not struggle for money these day . in just the time since Owens have be close , she have donate more than £ 150 , 000 to the conservative party . ms Chernukhin should donate the money she receive from the taxpayer back to the people of Hastings — use well , it could go a very long way to fix our break pave stone and bus shelter . Lubov Chernukhin : we want our money back . until that money be repay in full to our community , the conservative party should not take a penny in donation from she . again , it be a shame that no Conservative Members be here , but I will be write to the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , urge she not to take any more donation until that be do . when she become the conservative leader , she say very clearly that her party would apologise for the mistake that it have make ; perhaps apologise to the people of my constituency be a good place to start . I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate . one of the thing I see , which she perhaps see as well — it be the thrust of where she be go — be that the town deal fund the Government offer give great opportunity to council . I know that they do the same in my council area , where we develop an evening dining culture and a coffee culture , but it take the council be the body ensure that the money be spend where it should be spend . do the hon . Lady see the good thing that can come out of the town deal funding ? do she agree that we should all look at and focus on the good thing ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his passion about his area and about improve it . it be so true that where money be spend properly , in conjunction and collaboration with the priority of local people , we see people really feel a difference in their community . that be why when I speak to my constituent , it be so frustrating for they . we all know that we could have spend £ 150 , 000 so much well , which be where that frustration come from . we be leave with a board - up , huge building in the centre of town that we have to walk past , and we be remind of that failure every time . the Guardian have also report that Lubov Chernukhin ' s involvement in Owens be at least part fund by a £ 1 . 5 million loan from a British Virgin Islands company , sunny Gulch Village Ltd . that company be previously own by her husband , Vladimir Chernukhin , a former deputy Finance Minister in Putin ' s Russia and former chairman of a russian bank . in a 2018 court case , Lubov herself confirm that Mr Chernukhin have maintain " excellent " relationship with " prominent member of the russian establishment " . be that really the company that the conservative party want to keep , and be that really a suitable donor ? there be also serious question to answer about what due diligence be do under the last government before taxpayer ' money be hand out in this way . the money be part of the town deal fund under the last government . the plan for spend that money be mean to have be scrutinise by a board that be representative of the local community , but when I have speak to local businessman and woman who sit on that board , they have tell I that they be give very little information about the project and pressure into sign they off . one ask repeatedly to see the full business case , but be tell that they could not because of commercial sensitivity . why do the previous Government design such a process for spend taxpayer ' money with so little transparency for we , the taxpayer ? local business also can not understand why the decision be take to subsidise a commercial venture when they themselves have have to work so hard to get their business off the ground , with no help from the taxpayer . Genecon , a consultancy , be pay by the town deal board to examine the business case for each project , but no research , analysis or figure have ever be share . do Genecon ever do that due diligence ? all project be sign off by the then level up Department ; what check and due diligence be do by official and Ministers on those project to ensure that our taxpayer ' money be be spend wisely ? it seem that in the case of so many levelling - up project , proper process be not follow . anyone who speak to any charity apply today for public money will be tell about all the paperwork those charity rightly have to go through . why be the bar set so low for a venture such as Owens ? move forward , it be vital that the same mistake be not make . under this Labour Government , we have a brilliant opportunity to breathe life back into our high street , sort out our empty unit and get our local economy move . I be really grateful to the Minister for the Labour Government ' s confirmation that Hastings will be one of the 75 town award £ 20 million in funding toward those aim over the next decade . the Government have rightly say that that money should be spend on the priority of our community , whether that be break pavement , broken bus shelter , or open up important community venue such as St Mary in the Castle . I will be publicly ask my constituent how they think that money should be spend , and put on pressure for we to spend it properly . the Labour Government be also give our community important new power , such as high street rental auction . these will give local leader the power to take action on property that have be leave vacant for over a year , grant local business and community group the right to rent empty commercial lot at market price . lastly , I put on record my thank to the journalist involve in expose this scandal . it be only because of the work of journalist at local publication such as the Hastings Independent Press , as well as at the Guardian , that we know what have go on . never again should taxpayer ' money be waste in this way . for that reason , I be also refer the case of Owens to the National Audit Office , and I ask it to investigate . the lesson from Owens must be learn . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) on secure this evening ' s important debate , and I thank she for speak so powerfully on behalf of her constituent . she be a passionate champion for Hastings , and be lead the charge to ensure that not a single penny of Government investment in that town be waste . we have a number of thing in common ; we be both Labour and Co - operative Members of this House , but we be also both in Hastings and rye on 8 September 2022 when the late Queen pass away . apart from the profound sense of how important and significant that day be , what be very clear from speak to those who be now my hon . friend ' s constituent be the high regard she be hold in . I be glad that that be reflect in the result of the election . before I turn to the main subject of the debate , I will speak about the funding that the Government be put into my hon . friend ' s constituency . last week , my Department announce up to £ 20 million of funding and support for Hastings through our new plan for neighbourhood . it will help build a thriving Hastings , strengthen the local community and allow resident to take their own decision on thing that affect they . we be also give Hastings £ 15 million for our community regeneration partnership , which will help provide more affordable housing in the town and fund improvement at the Hollington youth hub . those investment come on top of the £ 24 . 3 million town deal for Hastings . our town deal be base on local partnership and local decision making , and they be lead by local town board . I know my hon . friend be a member of hers , and I know that she champion her area extremely well . I be pleased to see that the town deal in Hastings be well into delivery and be begin to deliver result on the ground , although I hear her concern about Owens entertainment centre , which I will turn to in more detail . when my hon . friend raise this issue in the House last year , I be disappointed to learn about the closure of Owens and any money waste under the previous Government . although the decision to invest in the project be take by Hastings borough council and the town board , it go without say that it be deeply disappointing when project fall through . I understand that the project at the former Debenhams site be due to bring the building back into use and create more leisure facility and , importantly , local job . follow the closure and the company responsible go into administration in October 2024 , the owner have retake possession of the building and the space have be re - advertise for lease . I hear the concern of my hon . friend and her constituent loud and clear regard her constituent rightfully get their money back . although the funding come from the UK Government , the responsibility for local town board management sit with the town board and formally with Hastings borough council as the accountable body for the town deal . I understand that Hastings borough council issue legal letter last year regard potential action to recover the £ 150 , 000 from the town fund that be allocate to CFEC Ltd , which run Owens entertainment centre during this time . I will be direct , as my hon . friend be direct , and say that there be plenty of unanswered question . what we do know be that the Conservatives , when they be in government , receive £ 2 million in donation from its owner . we also know that under their watch , this now - close amusement centre receive more than £ 150 , 000 of taxpayer ' money . the simple question we do not yet know the answer to be : why ? why might this millionaire Tory donor have need a top - up from the taxpayer to open a bowling alley ? there be concession owner in the dark , ticket holder confuse and , importantly , 31 staff member without a job . I be sure they would like to know the answer to that question , too . I be also sure they would like to know whether the Conservatives , give what have now come to light , have any intention , for the benefit of the local community , of return all or part of the donation that they receive ? follow the news that CFEC Ltd have go into administration in October ' 24 , a claim be lodge with the administrator to recover the £ 150 , 000 . my official will continue to stay up to date on the situation through our town deal monitoring and regular conversation with the council . on town deal more widely , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) be pleased to offer an extra year for delivery recently , take the end of the fund to March 2027 . we all want to see quick result , but colleague in this House and in council have reiterate how challenging it have be for project , especially with cost inflation . this Government have listen , which be why there be now an extra year of funding to get those project over the line . my official be work with area where the extra year be take up to ensure that delivery stay on track . let we now look at the broad picture . the last Government tie place up in knot with their short - term initiative and funding pot , all with very different rule and timetable . far from drive growth , that bog place down in bureaucracy , complexity and uncertainty . move ahead , we will set out a refreshed approach to local growth funding in the multi - year spending review in the spring — an approach that simplifie fund , with less red tape and more local choice . this government ' s define mission be growth , and we be determined that nowhere will be leave behind . together , we will work in partnership with people on the ground and with local authority in Hastings and in every corner of the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .