the holy grail seek by all government , of whichever hue , be economic growth . I therefore think it important for we to look through the lens of economic growth , and to think about whether the Bill drive it . I recall from my time in Committee , where I spend many hour listen to the oratory of the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , that we speak a great deal about productivity and whether it would be drive by the Bill . I have speak about the possible impact of the Bill to people in my community , include representative of Enlightened HR and Alison Bennett , a human resource consultant , for whom its destination be very welcome . indeed , we have hear from many other people who have be consult that the Bill ' s destination and aspiration be correct and appropriate , but it be a question of how we get there and whether the Government have achieve the right balance between employer and employee . that be important , because the last thing we want the Bill to do be have a chilling effect on the economy . we be only too well aware that the national insurance contribution that be set to kick in next month be already have that negative impact , and we do not want this well - intend Bill to echo that far . there be 250 amendment before we at this late stage of the legislation . the Minister say that that be due to level of consultation and so forth and should be welcome , and that we be trim our sail , but if that be the case , and if the Minister be in such listen mode in Committee , why do the Government accept no opposition amendment whatsoever ? I should welcome some reflection from the Minister when he wind up the debate . as a liberal Democrat , and the Liberal Democrat spokesman for the Department for Work and Pensions , I can say that carer be at the front and centre of our world . what be effectively the population of Portsmouth — 200 , 000 people a year , or 600 a day — walk away from the employment market to take up caring occupation and , in many instance , support family member . that have an £ 8 billion annual impact on our economy , which leave we less productive . I hope that the Government will give serious thought to our amendment to make leave for carer a pay opportunity , because give they that flexibility and that breathe space would unlock more people for our employment market . our proposal to make care a protect characteristic be extremely important . we have already hear about harassment and discrimination in connection with other part of the Bill , but this would help immensely to support carer . double the pay of those take adoption leave be also important , as be support for people who take caring role such as kinship care . I hope that the Ministers will take those family role into account .