may I first thank the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for bring the Bill before the House , and all the other hon . member who have speak on this important matter today ? he have be incredibly constructive and pragmatic in our deliberation on what we should do in this area , and I thank he for that . it be always a pleasure to work with he on this issue , and we have work together on a number of issue over the year . I would like to express my wholehearte agreement with the intent behind the hon . member ' s Bill . his speech be incredibly touching and he speak passionately about the need for the Bill , but also about the devastating impact on individual . his point about the future plan of one ' s life suddenly go to ashe be incredibly powerful , and I express my sympathy for Mr Thorpe , whom he refer to in his speech . it be always a great pleasure to take forward legislation that make a meaningful difference . I be lucky enough to take through Parliament two private Member ' s Bills prior to become a Minister . one be on parental bereavement leave , and people ask , " why do this not exist in the first place ? " when people say that to we , as I be sure they have say to the hon . member about his Bill , we know we be on the right track . in my experience , we normally do not do these thing on our own — we do they jointly — and his work with my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have be really important in bring the Bill forward . it be clear that we should look at what more we can do to support employ parent who lose their partner around the time of their child ' s birth and who do not currently qualify for statutory leave entitlement because they do not meet continuity of service requirement — that is , they have not be in the job for the require length of time to qualify . the principle of this Bill have support across the House , and I be pleased to hear that reflect in the debate . again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe , who have long campaign on this issue . we meet his constituent in my early day as a Minister , and I thank he for bring it to the House ' s attention . we be always keen to do something when we could , and I be delighted to say that we now have the right time and space to do this . it be a pleasure to meet he and his constituent Mr Horsey , who be in the Gallery today , in the Department the year before last . I be sure the whole House will join I in express our condolence to Mr Horsey for the loss of his wife Bernadette and in send our good wish to he and their son Tim . I will take the time to address some of the point raise by hon . member today , but I will first put on the record why the Government support the intent behind this legislation . lose a partner be a truly devastating experience for anyone . the combination of the terrible grief and , as my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) say , loneliness in these situation — the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , call it " unimaginable " , which be an apt description — with the challenge of care for a new baby must be incredibly hard . my deep sympathy go out to anyone who find themselves in this terrible position . the United Kingdom have a generous range of entitlement and protection design to support parent to balance their family and work commitment and maintain their place in the labour market while raise their child — for example , maternity leave and pay , paternity leave and pay , and share parental leave and pay , among other . maternity leave be rightly available from the first day of a woman ' s employment , recognise the special circumstance of pregnant woman and new mother . parental leave and share parental leave be not day - one leave entitlement for mother , father and partner ; all parent must meet continuity of service requirement . as such , if a mother die in the first year of a child ' s life , a father or partner who have not meet continuity of service requirement for paternity leave or share parental leave will not have the statutory right to take leave so that they can care for the child . in those tragic but , thankfully , rare circumstance , they will need to rely on the compassion of their employer to provide they with adequate leave and job security . as the hon . member for Ogmore say , though , some of these people be fall through the crack . the intent of the Bill be to provide more support for the grieve and survive parent when their spouse or partner have tragically pass away . the legislation will support people in those terrible circumstance to take time away from work to care for their new baby , without the risk and associated stress of be make to return to work before they be ready to do so . I be delighted that the Government be able to support this positive development in the parental leave and pay system . however , as be the case with any legislation , it be crucial to ensure that it be not only well intentione , but practical and effective in achieve its intended effect . it be therefore important that I set out to the House today , as I have previously discuss with the hon . member for Ogmore , the Government ' s view that the Bill will require amendment in Committee to fully achieve its intended change and operate effectively alongside exist parental leave legislation . I be delighted that the hon . Member have agree to work with I to do that , and that we have a share understanding of the need to create a legislative framework that not only support family in their time of need , but do so in a way that be clear , fair and effective . committee stage provide we with the opportunity to fine - tune the detail of the Bill and address any potential gap , issue or inconsistency to ensure that it achieve its intended purpose . I will , of course , provide more information on the necessary change ahead of Committee stage , but I will take a moment to highlight some of the area in which we be consider amendment . first , we will need to consider what type of parental leave good meet the intention of the Bill . secondly , we will need to analyse whether it be right to confine its scope to the death of the mother , or whether it should make broad provision for the death of other parent . thirdly , we need to make sure that the change we make integrate well into the wide framework of parental leave legislation . finally , we intend to remove the pay element from this entitlement — I will explain why shortly . the hon . member for Ogmore and I be in agreement on the removal of the pay element . as member will have see , the text of his Bill do not refer to pay , although I hear and understand his clear ambition to include it at a future stage . I concur with his point , though , that we should never let the perfect be the enemy of the good . all the UK ' s statutory parental pay entitlement have a continuity of service requirement , include statutory maternity pay , statutory paternity pay , statutory share parental pay and statutory adoption pay . they be design to ensure that a parent have make a reasonable contribution towards their employer ' s business before that employer be require to administer statutory parental payment . continuity of service requirement be design to achieve a balance between the need of employer and those of work parent . I will be able to give more detail in Committee on the change we intend to make to the Bill . in the spirit of collaboration , I encourage all member to engage constructively in Committee . our priority be to work together to deliver a piece of legislation that meet the need of bereaved family , provide they with the support they require during one of life ' s most challenging chapter . in response to the shadow Minister ' s point about worker ’ right , the Government be commit to support the participation and progression of parent in the labour market to ensure that it be fair and work for parent . our 2019 manifesto pledge change to enhance worker ’ right and support people to stay in work . the Government have deliver on those commitment by support a package of six private member ' bill help new parent , unpaid carer and hospitality worker ; give all employee easy access to flexible working ; and give worker a right to request a more predictable working pattern . we have be pleased with the successful progress of that legislation through Parliament , where it have receive cross - party support , result in six act successfully receive Royal Assent . the Government have already make good progress on lay secondary legislation in due course to implement those new act . the Employment Relations ( Flexible Working ) Act 2023 , for example , will give all employee with 26 week ' continuous service the right to request flexible working , empower employee to ask for a working arrangement that suit they and their unique circumstance . I take the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) about homeworke . flexible working do not necessarily mean homeworke ; it can mean different working time to suit people ' s parental responsibility — for example , different time during holiday — and it do not necessarily mean that people have to work from home . he be right to say that worker should work where they be most effective , and where employer require they to be . the Protections from Redundancy ( Pregnancy and Family Leave ) Act 2023 will provide great protection to woman who be on maternity leave or an employee who be on adoption or share parental leave in a redundancy situation . that legislation will help to clamp down on poor or inappropriate practice , such as discriminate against pregnant woman or new mother , or wait for a woman to return from maternity leave , and when the current protect period end make her redundant . the Employment ( Allocations of Tips ) Act 2023 will make it unlawful for business to hold back tip , gratuity and service charge from employee , ensure that staff receive the tip they have earn . this package of legislation will increase workforce participation , protect vulnerable worker , and level the play field , ensure that unscrupulous business do not have a competitive advantage . the legislation build on the strength of our flexible and dynamic labour market , and give business the confidence to create job and invest in their workforce , allow they to generate long - term prosperity and economic growth . protect and enhance worker ’ right while support business to grow remain a priority for this Government . we be determined to build a high - skilled , high - productivity , high - wage economy . a key part of the UK ' s economic resilience be our strong , flexible , and dynamic labour market . it be a labour market that give business the confidence to create job and invest in their workforce , and allow they to generate long - term prosperity and economic growth . it be a labour market that rightly bear down on unscrupulous employer , and protect those keep to good working practice , promote more competition in UK market to build a high - skilled , high - productivity , high - wage economy .