much like one of Clwyd East ' s famous son , John Prescott , who hail from Prestatyn , I do hope my maiden speech pack a punch . give that the custom in a maiden speech be for the new Member to talk about some of the good bit of their constituency , come back from a summer of attend carnival , f ê tes , agricultural show , a classic car festival , a duck race , fun day and dog show have make my job today a little easy . today , I be go to take the House on a whistle - stop tour of Clwyd East , a place that it be my great privilege to represent . it be apt that I give my maiden speech in a debate about great British Energy , as Clwyd East boast on its coastline the port of Mostyn , with Gwynt y M ô r wind farm , a UK leader in offshore wind power , and North Hoyle offshore wind farm , off the coast of Prestatyn . both demonstrate the transformative nature of offshore wind for our country , through the energy that they generate and the local employment that they provide . great British Energy will see that go even far , tackle the climate crisis and create good - quality , long - term , sustainable skilled job in north Wales and across the UK . prestatyn ' s beautiful stretch of coastline be not just useful for produce clean energy ; it be also a hub of tourism , with its blue flag beach , beautifully keep station and public garden , and high street with lot of brilliant local business . though I be proud to be the first MP for the new constituency of Clwyd East , I pay tribute to my predecessor in this part of the seat , Dr James Davies , the former MP for the Vale of Clwyd constituency . from Prestatyn , James use his time in Parliament to be a dementia champion , and serve his country in Government . Holywell be the next major town along the coast . St Winefride ' s well , the Lourdes of Wales , bring in thousand of visitor a year . there be the old water mill at Basingwerk Abbey , base at Greenfield valley , fame for its cotton and textile mill in the 19th century , and latterly for its brilliant heritage trail , wonderful dog walk and very challenging parkrun . Holywell High Street be also home to Holywell Area Community Museum , which feature my great - grandfather ' s St John Ambulance uniform and my great - uncle ' s mining helmet from the Point of Ayr colliery . Clwyd East have a proud mining heritage , with most family near the coast have link to the Point of Ayr or Bettisfield colliery . that heritage also form an important part of my upbringing , and be the reason I be so proud of labour ' s commitment to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . as the 684th woman to be elect to Parliament , I would like to pay tribute to Eirene White , a trail - blazer and — like yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker — a Deputy Speaker who be integral to labour ' s commitment to equal pay , as the 58th woman elect to Parliament . Clwyd East have a vast and diverse geography , contain coastal town , the clwydian mountain range and the many unique village at its base . these village provide much in term of innovation and activity , through the brilliant initiative they champion and fantastic event that they hold — from community - own pub and shop to agricultural show and music festival . hail from the small village of Bagillt , I be immensely proud to have such a wealth of impressive , small and mighty village in my constituency . farming be central to the economy and culture of Clwyd East , with 68 % of the constituency serve as agricultural land . in May , I head to Clawdd Offa farm , near Northop , to meet National Farmers Union county chairman David Williams and his family on their dairy farm . after a brief chat , we head out into an enclose field full of cow . in one of the more surreal moment of be a parliamentary candidate , I look out in front of I and could not help but observe aloud , " why would anyone want to spend their day in an enclose space with horde of rowdy , low mammal ? " , to which David reply , " I quite agree Becky — you must be mad ! " move south , Clwyd East ' s small town be Caerwys , which play host to the very first Eisteddfod , and be also the home of Dr Tim Erasmus , chair of the Caerwys Historical Society and my very much admire former politic teacher . next be the historic market town of Mold , a town very close to my heart as it be where I spend many summer perform with my dance school at Theatr Clwyd and where I go to sixth form at the Alun school . the Alun school work to give its student the good opportunity to succeed — something that I be firmly committed to . maximise opportunity for young people be a passion that I know I share with one former predecessor from the Delyn constituency , David Hanson — after all , I first come to Parliament on work experience with David 13 year ago . so committed be David to provide opportunity for young people that he be continue to monitor and support my development by join the other place as Lord Hanson . I be so proud and excited to work alongside a political hero of mine under a new Labour Government , whose resolve to do the very same thing 32 year ago pave the way for I and a generation of young people to access opportunity and succeed . between 2019 and 2024 , Delyn be serve by Rob Roberts . I be hearten by Rob ' s local root and close tie with the community that bring he up , as well as his keenness to work with community council and his proud use of the Welsh language , have go to the Welsh - medium school Maes Garmon . Fel mae nhw dweud , " cenedl heb iaith , cenedl heb galon . " as well as have educate two mp , Mold be also the home of Daniel Owen square ; Bailey Hill , or Mold castle ; and a thriving number of independent shop and business . with a summer recess of sample cake at local f ê tes have take its toll on my waistline , I be grateful to the brilliant independent clothe shop that have save the day , include Simmi , where I find the perfect outfit to make my maiden speech in . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you ; that be very kind ! as be the case throughout the constituency , people in Mold take great pride in their town and contribute to the roll series of event and festival throughout the year . I be also privileged to represent the beautiful town of Ruthin , with its rich history and endure architecture . as well as Ruthin castle and its resident peacock , the local community have work to make sure that Ruthin ' s old courthouse , jail and market hall be restore and open to the public . Ruthin also host the incredibly popular Ruthin festival , a fantastic annual event run by local volunteer and proudly conduct yn Gymraeg . head over the horseshoe pass , the final large town of the constituency be Llangollen . as the host of the annual Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod , Llan be proud to be the place where " Wales welcome the world " . I do have ticket to the Eisteddfod this year — a night of west end musical number on 4 July — but clearly the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) have other idea . with Llangollen in my constituency , I must hold the title for the constituency with the good and most varied day out . where else could you expect to ride on a heritage steam train in the morning and head just 10 minute down the road to kayak across an aqueduct with UNESCO world heritage status in the afternoon ? llangollen railway and the Froncysyllte aqueduct be only part of what Clwyd East have to offer . if you be feel a bit dizzy at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be because you have just travel about 40 mile in — hopefully — around eight minute . whether it be support local business to thrive , improve public transport , keep our community safe , improve people ' s right at work or help young people to fulfil their potential , I will do all I can for the people of Clwyd East , and I will work tirelessly to repay the trust that they have place in I .