Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — hs2 : cost what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Transport on the cost of hs2 . the Chancellor launch the efficiency and saving review in the autumn statement to focus on the Government ' s priority and identify way in which to work more efficiently and help to manage budgetary pressure from high inflation . the Secretary of State for Transport and I discuss the cost of hs2 during the review , which help to inform the decision to rephase certain part of the project as part of balance the nation ' s book . the travel between north and south be the bit of transport infrastructure that work ; it be the travel across the north that do not work . what would the cost of HS2 have to reach for the Government to conclude that it no long represent value for money for the taxpayer , or be the Government pursue the essentially socialist policy that they will keep pay for this ridiculous white elephant irrespective of the final bill ? I take the precaution of research my hon . friend ' s interest in this subject , and I note that he be issue challenge on it 14 year ago . the Government remain — as they be then — fully commit to deliver hs2 and the integrated rail plan . this be a long - term investment that will bring our big city close to each other . it will boost productivity , and will provide a low - carbon alternative to car and plane for many decade to come . as my hon . friend know , we be also work , through the IRP , on a £ 96 billion package to improve inter - regional rail connection , which obviously affect his constituent . do the Minister agree that this country ' s performance on productivity have be pitiful over the last 10 year ? there have be virtually no improvement in productivity , and one reason for that be our lack of investment in national infrastructure . slow down hs2 be a bad move when it come to improve our infrastructure , and it be year since we agree to a third runway at Heathrow . do the Minister agree that if we be to improve our productivity , we have to invest in infrastructure ? I can agree with the hon . Gentleman that the investment of £ 600 billion in infrastructure in all part of the country to which the Government be committed be critical to ease the productivity challenge that have face successive government , and the Chancellor will introduce measure in the autumn statement to address it far . hs2 ' s cost have balloon since it be first conceive under the last Labour Government . as my right hon . friend have say , owe to pressure from the Treasury the project have have to be rephase , and train will now go from west London — not central London — to a station not in central Birmingham , which negate the benefit that the scheme ' s proponent say it would bring . with cost balloon still far , we just can not afford it , can we ? I be sorry , but I do not agree with my hon . friend . I certainly recognise that infrastructure investment of this scale and with this level of ambition be never easy to deliver . I have set out the change to the profile of the investment , but all the key element be still on track , and we will continue to work with the Department for Transport to ensure that that remain the case . be the Minister not also concerned about cost - benefit analysis ? have not assumption behind the pattern of business travel demand be change dramatically by the pandemic , work from home and video conferencing ? be the Minister satisfied that the Department for Transport have properly re - evaluated hs2 to take account of such change ? yes , I be content with that . I recognise those change in pattern of behaviour when it come to the use of public transport , but we also face cost of living challenge . that be why we be work so closely with the Department for Transport to , for example , continue investment in bus over the next two year , and continue to spend £ 200 million on cap fare to £ 2 outside London . we must bear in mind , however , that continue investment in transport infrastructure be key to great connectivity across the United Kingdom and deal with the economic growth imperative . it have be report over the last couple of day that accommodate hs2 will mean few train between the north and London . one station affect be wilmslow in my constituency . do the Minister agree that be that to happen , HS2 would no long be value for money or good for the north ? it would certainly take long and cost my constituent more . hs2 be go to happen . the question be what additional investment across other part of the rail infrastructure might benefit my right hon . friend ' s constituent additionally and more directly . I set out with the integrated rail plan the £ 96 billion package to improve rail connection , and many element of that will have a direct impact on her constituent in Cheshire . as the Minister be well aware , North West Leicestershire have suffer under the blight of hs2 for more than a decade , and the whole project have recently be declare to be undeliverable . it have be unaffordable for some considerable time . will he urge his colleague in Government to cancel the remainder of the eastern leg and reallocate just a small portion of that budget so that we can reopen the Ivanhoe line ? I recognise that the hon . Gentleman have strong view on this , and I know that he have be personally affect by it in the past . the project , although it have be rephase , will continue . there be a number of issue involve in ensure tight management of that budget , and I be work closely with the Department for Transport to see that that happen . Climate change : Economic Impact what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of climate change on the economy . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of climate change on the economy . the Treasury ' s 2021 net zero review note that unmitigated climate change damage have be estimate to be the equivalent of lose between 5 % and 20 % of global GDP each year . the cost of global inaction significantly outweigh the cost of action , and McKinsey estimate that there be a global market opportunity for british business worth £ 1 trillion . a recent report from Carbon Tracker find a huge disconnect between what scientist expect from climate change and what our financial system be prepare for , with flawed economic modelling lead pension fund and other to seriously underestimate the risk . meanwhile , Energy UK warn that we be lag behind on green energy investment . surely the Minister agree that to revive our economy and avert climate catastrophe we must rapidly phase out fossil fuel and invest in a green new deal to reach net zero . it be important to point out that we be the fast decarbonising economy in the G7 . since 1990 , we have decarbonise by 48 % while grow our economy by 65 % , but the hon . Lady be right : this will take a balanced approach involve both public spending and private investment , include pension fund investment . the recent pension fund reform , for example , should unlock some new asset for green infrastructure . I agree with the question about the Carbon Tracker report . it have find that policy decision be be base on 1990s literature . that be 30 year old . will the Chancellor review the datum and the thinking that the Government be use to make sure that all strand be in line with the climate science of the 21st century ? the datum that I look at show that last year 40 % of our electricity be generate from renewable . that be an amazing achievement , but we be alive and present when it come to decarbonise our economy . we have great plan and we be build on our great track record . we will continue to do that . I now welcome our new Member , Steve Tuckwell . thank you , Mr Speaker . do my hon . friend agree with my Uxbridge and South Ruislip constituent that Mayor Khan ' s ultra low emission zone expansion hit family and business without any significant environmental benefit ? let I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he have waste no time whatsoever in advocate for his constituent against a Labour tax that be hit household and business in his constituency and throughout the south - east . it be a massive tax bombshell at a time when family just do not need it . it be simply not right , and we would urge the Leader of the Opposition to tell his Mayor of London to stop it . the shadow Chancellor have say that she will not rule out mandate the use of pension fund money for the pet scheme that the Labour party think will achieve net zero , put at risk the saving of many pensioner in this country . what do my hon . friend think the impact of that will be on the british economy ? pension fund have a fiduciary responsibility to deliver a financial return but also to be mindful of the value of their pensioner . I have every confidence that pension fund will continue to invest in line with the risk that be present by climate . I call the shadow Minister . this Tory Government effectively ban new onshore wind , which be vital for net zero , energy security and get bill down . we now learn this could change because one fine group of Tory rebel be shout louder than another group of Tory rebel . there be no leadership , just a Government lead by their Back Benchers . can we finally get an answer from the Government on whether they will dither and delay or join Labour in lead the way and act on onshore wind ? onshore wind have an important part to play , and we be already deploy 14 GW of energy from onshore wind . the cost of onshore wind have come down significantly . it be one of our cheap energy source . the hon . Lady do not have long to wait for the Energy Bill , which we be consider later today . growth plan : mortgage interest Rates what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the growth plan of 23 September 2022 on mortgage interest rate . over the course of 2022 , high inflation from Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine see interest rate increase across most western economy . the path to low rate be through low inflation , which be why the Prime Minister make halve inflation one of our five priority for this year . I be pleased that the late Bank of England forecast show that we be on track . mortgage and associate rental cost be soar in Putney , Roehampton and Southfields , and the Government like to claim it be all due to global shock or the war in Ukraine , but the late Bank of England datum from July show that the cost of lend to buy a home remain high in the UK than in Germany , Italy or France . will the Minister finally concede that this difference be because those country do not have the devastating growth plan or mini - Budget last year , and that it be because of this Government ' s wide economic failure that my constituent face these cost ? I be glad that the hon . Lady ' s constituent , among many other , will benefit both from our mortgage interest support and from there be almost double the number of mortgage product on the market now than in October 2022 . I repeat the comment of my colleague , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury : if the hon . Lady be so worried about her constituent , what well way of help they with the cost of live than to do away with the Mayor ' s ULEZ tax ? in the UK , homebuyer be overwhelmingly dependent on short - term fix rate mortgage of just two , three or five year , which mean that in time of rise interest rate , as we have at the moment , they be hard hit by massively increase mortgage bill . in most other country , homebuyer have long - term fix rate mortgage of 10 or 20 year , or of the entire length of the mortgage . do my hon . friend agree that the regulator should ensure a level playing field between short - term and long - term mortgage to give homebuyer a free choice of the sort of mortgage they want , so they can choose to have great protection against rate rise if they want ? my hon . friend have great knowledge of these matter . it be a privilege to work with he and the sector on how we can offer consumer and homebuyer more choice . that choice include the opportunity of long - term fix - rate mortgage , and my official and I continue to work on how we can reduce friction and barrier to those mortgage . I welcome Darren Jones , the new shadow Minister . it be estimate that 140 , 000 household will face a rise in their mortgage bill this month . if someone in a random constituency , say Mid Bedfordshire , be to remortgage their house in the next six month , they could pay an average of £ 300 more per month compare with before the disastrous Tory mini - Budget this time last year . what can the Chancellor and his team do to reassure the country that , if the Conservatives be to win the next election , they would not just mess up the economy all over again ? I be sure the constituent of Mid Bedfordshire will be very pleased to know that more than 90 % of mortgage provider have sign up to our mortgage charter , which offer the opportunity for relief , to term - out mortgage and to have interest - free period , if they face adversity at this time when interest rate be high across the world . what will not help the constituent of Mid Bedfordshire be unfunded spending promise that we know will push up the cost of borrowing and defer the point at which inflation fall . that be a bit rich from the Government , and it be no answer whatsoever to the people of Mid Bedfordshire who will not be able to afford to pay their bill over the come month . it be one year ago today that the former Tory Prime Minister take a huge ideological gamble and sabotage Britain ' s economy . they crash the pound , put pension in peril and explode a Tory mortgage bombshell under the home of million of work people . will the Minister take this opportunity to apologise to the british people , on behalf of the Conservative party , for wreck their hope and aspiration ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his position . he have have a feisty morning read his Walworth Road brief . let I offer he the opportunity to correct the record , because Labour have spend the past 12 month talk down our economy but it be now large than it be when we enter covid and it have recover and grow fast than the economy of both France and Germany . brexit : Economic Impact what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of withdrawal from the EU on the economy . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of withdrawal from the EU on the economy . what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of withdrawal from the EU on the economy . good morning , Mr Speaker . Brexit be a choice make by the british people and it remain a big opportunity for the economy . rather than relitigate that debate , this Government be commit to embrace those opportunity . prior to the EU referendum , the Bank of England warn that Brexit would seriously damage the UK economy , weaken the pound and cause inflation . the Government have now delay import check on animal and food product for the fifth time , because the cost would add to inflation . do that mean the Chancellor finally accept that Brexit be contribute to the UK ' s cost of living crisis ? no , but of course we be sensitive about the timing of introduce those change because of cost of living pressure . I be sad to have see , since we last meet in the House , the hon . Lady announce that she be step down ; we have much in common on patient safety . on the NHS , she will know that because of Brexit an extra £ 14 . 6 billion be be direct to public service every year , include the NHS and include in Scotland . Adam Posen , a former member of the Monetary Policy Committee , have describe Brexit as a " trade war by the UK on itself " . this unnecessary trade war have have a real impact on small business in my constituency such as Guild Antiques & Restoration , which have find that its order from the EU have fall off a cliff edge and its cost have increase . Scotland do not choose Brexit and we be all bad off as a result . what can the Chancellor do to fill the economic gap his hard Brexit have cause ? there be a certain irony in the Scottish National party oppose Brexit at the same time as advocate a far more draconian separation for Scotland , include a new currency and border check . on business in Scotland , as part of the UK , Scotland be now an independent coastal state for the first time in nearly half a century ; the 21 , 000 people in Scotland who work in financial service be benefit from the Brexit freedom in the Edinburgh reform ; and there be extra support for scottish pub , because , for the first time , we have a low beer duty relative to supermarket . it be not just Brexit trade barrier have a devastating impact on Scotland ' s economy , because the loss of freedom of movement have hugely damage our business ' ability to recruit staff . many business have have to reduce their offer , cut their opening hour or close altogether . it be estimate that over the bank holiday UK pub alone lose out on £ 22 million because of staff shortage . do the Chancellor accept that small business such as those can not keep pick up the tab for his Government ' s disastrous Brexit ? what be he do to solve these staff recruitment problem ? may I gently say to the hon . Lady that this country have actually grow fast than France or Germany since we leave the single market ? this be a bit of a smokescreen for the SNP ' s economic policy , which have lead to more people out of work and few people in work in Scotland than in England . leave the EU give we the opportunity to modernise our regulation and adapt they to local and national domestic interest , but we will seize the benefit of do that only if we deliver on regulatory reform . so will my right hon . friend drive that across department so that we can increase prosperity and raise living standard as a result ? no one know more about regulatory reform than my right hon . friend , who write an excellent booklet on it . we look at that booklet ahead of every fiscal event , be it autumn statement or Budget . I hope that she notice in the Budget big reform to our medicine regulation . we will continue to learn from the thing she advocate . for generation , Britain ' s world leadership on financial service and financial market have be a key part of our economy . I agree that the post - Brexit initiative such as the Edinburgh review have make excellent stride on make sure that we keep that world leadership . may I encourage my right hon . friend to look at the report from UK Finance on the tokenisation of market , as be the world leader in that innovative area would reduce cost for investor , enable money to flow into less liquid asset and fundamentally unlock future growth ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question . thank to the excellent work of the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , we have repeal 100 EU rule and regulation in the financial service sector , and we will look very closely at the opportunity when it come to tokenisation . I call the shadow Economic Secretary to the Treasury . last week , the Government admit that their plan introduction of food import check from the EU would lead to an increase in inflation , hit the pocket of ordinary people during the bad cost of live crisis in our lifetime . in the Labour party , we believe that a bespoke veterinary agreement would cut red tape from business and avoid push cost on to ordinary people . be the Government plan to negotiate a veterinary agreement , and if not , why not ? I gently say to the hon . Lady , who I have a lot of time for , that the last thing business want be the upheaval of a huge renegotiation of our trading arrangement with the EU , which be the large tariff - free free trade deal by volume in the world . I welcome the Scottish National party spokesperson to his place . thank you , Mr Speaker . the Chancellor claim that it be a success that inflation in the UK have rise higher and remain more stubbornly so than in the EU . Adam Posen , formerly of the Bank of England , have underline that up to 80 % of the UK ' s additional inflation woe can be lay at the door of Brexit — something the Tories and Labour be unite on . all the while , food price inflation be crush household budget . so why have this Government do nothing ? why have this Government learn nothing from country such as France , which have work with food supplier to keep food price cap to help those most in need ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his position . his constituency predecessor serve as a Minister in the Treasury — whatever greatness the hon . Gentleman go on to , I be sure he will not sully himself with that role . when it come to inflation , we have a high level of import food , like Germany ; a high level of import gas , like Italy ; and low unemployment , like the United States . these factor have come together to give we the inflation rate we have . when it come to growth , the hon . Gentleman will have note last week ' s number , which show that we have recover well from the pandemic than France , Italy or Germany , and we be do extremely well , despite all the pressure we face . I notice that the Chancellor do not say anything about food inflation hurt family . well , Tory and Labour " little Britain " attitude do not stop at food price inaction . energy cost be a key driver of inflation and cost for family . energy bill be too high . the Spanish have take bold step by cut vat and introduce a social tariff to help their people . this Government plan to do nothing for this winter , which be particularly gall for people in Scotland who will continue to pay more for their energy than elsewhere in the UK . will the Chancellor act on our demand for a £ 400 energy price grant to be introduce this winter ? let I tell the hon . Gentleman what we be do for his constituent , and indeed all the people of Scotland : around £ 3 , 000 of support for the average family up and down the country , include in Scotland ; pay half people ' s energy bill , on average ; and a huge amount of support through the benefit system . nearly £ 100 billion of support show that we be strong together . inflation : Public Health and wellbee what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on the potential impact of inflation on public health and wellbeing . the Government be commit to support individual to live healthy life . high inflation be the great immediate economic challenge that we must address . the Government have make it a priority to halve inflation this year . we be on the path back to the target of 2 % and consumer price index inflation fall to 6 . 8 % in July . we will continue to work with all Departments to deal with the inflationary pressure they face . be unable to pay for essential such as food , heating and rent have an impact on physical and mental health . it can lead to delay diagnosis , malnutrition and serious mental health problem . as the former Health Secretary will know , prevention be well than cure , but austerity fly in the face of a preventative approach . what discussion have the Chancellor have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to ensure that the NHS have prevention at its heart ? will we see a rise in funding in the autumn statement ? yes , I have frequent conversation with the Secretary of State and other Ministers about health budget . we will be increase the public health grant to £ 3 . 575 billion for the next financial year . that be to ensure that we have that real - term funding protection over the next two year , but there be a number of other intervention that we be make on deliver service more effectively , ensure that we have the provision of additional staff with the long - term workforce plan for the NHS . none the less , I do recognise the challenge that a post - covid NHS face in term of the legacy of demand that be yet unmet . we be continue to work to bring down waiting list and we have see significant progress recently , particularly with two - year and 18 - month list . a key part of improve the public health and wellbeing of my local resident in Kettering be the redevelopment of Kettering General Hospital . can the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm that the £ 400 million - plus redevelopment of KGH remain on track for completion by 2030 , and that the standardisation of the design of the 40 new hospital will help to reduce cost and increase deliverability ? Kettering General Hospital be always at the top of my mind when I come to Treasury question , but the big challenge , as my hon . friend rightly point out , be how we ensure the efficiency of the expenditure of every pound of taxpayer ' investment in the health estate . I shall continue to work with the Secretary of State on that plan for the 40 hospital to make sure that we achieve that . in the many discussion that the Minister say he have have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , what figure do they discuss with he that he estimate inflation will be at in the next financial year ? there be a range of forecast , but we have to deal with the reality . I be try to ensure that , across all of the decision that secretary of State make , we reprioritise effectively and deliver frontline service , but I do not have a number for the hon . Gentleman this afternoon . People in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke find that mental health be a huge barrier to get back into work and obviously help to produce economic growth . that be something that the Chancellor be report to have be consider carefully over the summer recess . my friend James Starkie and I have launch a no time to wait campaign to use some exist health and social care funding to get specialist mental health nurse into GP surgery to help support people in a more preventive way — something the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) ask about early . what support will the Treasury give to help the Department of Health and Social Care to enact those plan ? my hon . friend always have constructive suggestion in this difficult area . the Chancellor bring forward a number of intervention in the Budget to get people back into work after some of the behavioural shift that we see follow the pandemic . we look forward to continue to work with my hon . friend on solution for his community . investment zone what progress he have make on the introduction of investment zone . what progress he have make on the introduction of investment zone . investment zone be part of our industrial strategy to make sure that the benefit of our national strength in our five growth priority sector be spread throughout the UK . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . the north - east of Scotland have long be an exemplar of innovation in the field of food and drink and energy , to name a few . can he confirm that the north - east Scotland investment zone will lead to more innovation to promote these key industry not just in Aberdeen City , but in the wide north - east , include my constituency of Banff and Buchan ? I know that the Acorn carbon capture , usage and storage project be base at St Fergus in my hon . friend ' s patch , and that Banff and Buchan be within the north - east of Scotland region , which be one of two eligible area and have be a long - stand global centre for excellence in clean energy , so I wish he every success as those discussion with the Scottish Government continue . do the Chancellor agree that my constituency of Clwyd South , that of my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) and the rest of north - east Wales represent one of the good candidate for a new investment zone ? will he also consider make this cross - border , give our very close economic , commercial and cultural tie with the north - west of England ? I know there be some great business in my hon . friend ' s constituency — I much enjoy meet Robin and Helen Jones of Jones ' Village Bakery at a recent reception in no . 10 , and I know they be go from strength to strength . I holiday in Clwyd last year , and from the top of Moel Famau I see a very impressive offshore wind farm . I completely agree that there be enormous potential in Clwyd for clean energy and , as discussion continue about investment zone , I wish he every success as well . the UK ' s first investment zone be in South Yorkshire , where the Mayor be work hard to develop our world - lead advanced manufacturing and innovation district . I be sure the Chancellor will agree that if we be go to create a growth area , we need to make sure people can access the job there via transport link , particularly by bus . will he make sure that include within the financial package available be money to assist with local public transport ? I very much enjoy my visit to South Yorkshire to open that investment zone . it be incredibly impressive what be happen there and it be wonderful to welcome new investment by Boeing as part of that . the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about transport ; that be why we involve local authority in all our investment zone decision . it be also vital to have university involve , which be why the University of Sheffield be play such a key role . I be present on the day the Chancellor come to launch the investment zone in my constituency , and of course I too welcome the investment into Boeing there . do he accept that one of the other area for future development in the investment zone be small modular reactor ? a consortium be be develop in Sheffield with Sheffield Forgemasters , Rolls - Royce and GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy to look at the future — not merely to develop the technique for smr , but to start build smr in Sheffield . would he be willing to look at that proposal and hopefully offer support for it ? I enjoy meet the hon . Gentleman when we open that investment zone . let I reassure he that I be a big supporter of nuclear and I be very excited about the potential of smr . there be a competition go on this year , which we hope will be complete by the end of the year , to assess the viability of the various SMR manufacturer , and we want to get go as quickly as we can . freedom of Speech : financial Sector what discussion he have have with representative of the financial sector on freedom of speech . the Government have be clear that debanke customer on the basis of political view be unacceptable . during recess I meet banking executive to discuss debanking and lawful freedom of expression , and they have commit to comply with the change I publish on 21 July . in parallel , the Financial Conduct Authority be conduct an urgent review of debanke practice , which will report back to the Chancellor in the next couple of week . last week the Met Police chief finally seem to confirm that the job of the police should be to police and not to seek to align themselves with entity or ideology . do the Minister agree with I that bank and the corporate world should follow that example and focus their effort on their core business , rather than play the sinister cancel agenda of the woke brigade that see Nigel Farage have his account wrongfully close ? my hon . friend represent the view of his constituent in this place clearly . he be quite right ; although they be private entity , bank benefit from a privileged place in society and they should focus on do their core function brilliantly , treat customer fairly and make a sustainable return for shareholder , rather than take side on politically contentious matter . today it be because some people may have a different political view ; tomorrow it could be the fact that someone have a different religious viewpoint . I be a Christian , and as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I stand up for those with christian belief , those with other belief and those with no belief , because I believe sincerely that they have a right to have that belief . if ever the day come when bank censure anybody because they have a different religious belief , I would stand up against that . do the Minister agree ? let I be clear : yes , the Government agree with that . no one should be debar from access to banking facility in our society because of a lawfully express view . if he and other hon . member wish to make representation , the Financial Conduct Authority be currently conduct a review of this matter . plastic Packaging Tax what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the plastic packaging tax . in April this year the Government announce that we would conduct a formal review of the plastic packaging tax through analysis of environmental and tax datum and customer research to assess the impact of the measure . More information about the evaluation will be publish later this year . I be pleased to share that a business in my Eastbourne constituency have make many important change in the way it operate in order to meet its own environmental ambition , but when it come to the transportation of food and pharmaceutical product , industry standard link to public health regulation require such product to be transport in sterile packaging , which necessitate the use of virgin plastic and bring the container that the business produce into scope for the plastic packaging tax . be there a new direction I can share with that business , or will ongoing policy review look at such case ? the aim of the plastic packaging tax be to provide a clear incentive for business to use more recycled plastic in packaging . follow extensive consultation , we look at a range of possible exemption and decide to limit those exemption because we want to encourage innovation in the industry . put simply , the more exemption , the less innovation . however , all taxis remain , of course , under review . a proactive approach to a circular economy could create hundred of thousand of job and cut our consumption emission . what circular taxation measure be the Treasury look at to help we achieve those outcome ? we be clear that we want all taxis relate to the environment to have an impact . the plastic packaging tax , for example , will clearly have an impact on the amount of recycling that take place and on the amount put into landfill . those be all thing that we assess as part of evaluation , and the plastic packaging tax will be evaluate this year . Pension scheme : UK Investment Incentives what step his Department be take to incentivise pension scheme to invest in the UK . at Mansion House , the Government present a series of pension reform that will increase return for saver and enable the financial sector to unlock capital for some of the UK ' s most promising industry . the Department continue work to build on the initial package of measure and will set out further detail in the autumn . I thank the Minister for his answer and welcome those measure . have the Government consider what more can be do to unlock surplus in define - benefit scheme to allow employer to use that money more effectively , rather than have it end up go into insurance company on buy - out ? there be a huge tax penalty on unlock surplus . be there a way of relieve that to encourage the money to be invest more efficiently ? my hon . friend make an important point . with the right precaution , it be right that we look at that to incentivise employer to deliver the high return for pension saver . the Government have to date take £ 4 . 4 billion from the mineworker ' pension scheme . the then cross - party Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee conclude that the Government should not be " profit from mineworker ' pension . " how do the Secretary of State justify their continue profiteer ? I be not familiar with the issue that the hon . Lady speak about . I would be very happy to meet she to understand it in more detail . pub : Tax System what step his Department be take to help support pub through the tax system . we be ensure that pub remain a key part of our local community by provide support through the alcohol duty and business rate system . that include a new draught relief that provide a significant duty discount on alcohol sell on draught in a pub , and the expand retail , hospitality and leisure relief mean more than £ 10 , 000 in relief for the average independent pub . after a busy summer knock around South Ribble and speak to people , I have often pop in for a pint , include in Croston ' s famous Wheatsheaf pub . from housing MP surgery — as many pub do — to be our community living room , pub be absolutely vital . I have speak to landlord , include those at the Black Bull and the fabulous Fleece Inn in Penwortham — get they all in ! there be a pub crawl there for we all . they need our support , so may I invite the Minister to South Ribble — I will even offer to buy she a pint — to speak to Chris , the landlord at Longton ' s fabulous Golden Ball , to hear about his business ? as you know , Mr Speaker , I regard Lancashire as my home , and it would be a delight to return to South Ribble . my hon . friend have name just a few of the roughly 37 , 000 pub in England and Wales — perhaps if we have give she long she would have be able to name they all . all those pub will benefit from the Brexit pub guarantee , which mean that the duty on a pint sell in a pub will always be low than in a supermarket . let we see if the Minister be go to get another pint — I call Tim Farron . follow the question from my dad ' s MP , I confess that I have be to all the pub that the hon . member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) mention . the big burden on pub in the lake and the dale be the fact that they can not find any staff or sufficient staff . it be a crisis that affect the entire hospitality sector , 86 % of which say that the recruitment of staff be a major problem for they . the solution will include more affordable home for worker , more intelligent visa rule and fund new training and skill initiative . will the Minister meet I and representative of the hospitality industry to look at a bespoke package to solve the workforce crisis in the lake and the dale ? I would go far and give as an example the truly transformational programme that the Chancellor set out at the spring Budget to transform childcare policy in this country . we know that childcare responsibility hold back many people from enter the workforce , and it be through policy such as this , as well as the work be lead by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions to help people back into the workforce , that will help pub in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency and across the country . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . on Friday , the Office for National Statistics publish an update to the UK ' s GDP growth figure , which show that the UK economy be 0 . 6 % large than pre - pandemic level by the fourth quarter of 2021 . it mean that our economy have the fast recovery from the pandemic of any large european economy , thank to decision such as furlough that protect million of job . for that growth to continue , we need to halve inflation , which I be pleased to report be now nearly 40 % below its 11 % peak . I can also tell the House that I will deliver the autumn statement on 22 November . stay on the subject of pub , Carshalton and Wallington be also lucky to be home to some excellent pub , include the Hope , which be this year ' s campaign for Real Ale Greater London pub of the year recipient . will the Chancellor expand a bit more on the work that the Treasury be do to support pub not just in the tax system but far afield , and will he join I in wish Carshalton and Wallington ' s pub good luck in the local pub of the year competition later on ? I very much wish my hon . friend ' s local pub the good of luck in that competition , second only to my desire to encourage South West Surrey pub to do well . I want to reassure he that we believe that pub be central to our national life . that be why we have provide relief on business rate of up to 75 % for pub , and as we hear early , the Brexit pub guarantee help on their duty pricing . I call the shadow Chancellor . last week , thousand of parent be tell that their child ' s school be unsafe and at risk of collapse . the defining image of 13 year of conservative government : classroom prop up to stop the ceiling from fall in . capital budget have halve in real term since 2010 , with warning ignore and repair programme slash . do this Conservative Government take any responsibility for any of this ? let I start by reassure the right hon . Lady that the vast majority of pupil in the 156 school affect be at school normally , and we be act fast to minimise the impact on the rest . let I answer the more general question that the right hon . Lady raise . yes , we make cut in spending in 2010 because , as she know well , the last Labour Government leave this country with an economic crisis . despite that crisis , the Department for Education budget have go up by 15 % in real term , and overall capital spend — order . this be topical . all your colleague on both side of the House want to get in . topical be mean to be very short , not a full debate between both side . I say to everybody : think about other . I think we can move on . I call Rachel Reeves . I will repeat : capital budget have halve in real term since 2010 . I understand — indeed , I know — that in the lead - up to the 2021 spending review , the Department for Education make a submission to the Treasury about the danger of the deteriorate school estate , include from reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . those warning be ignore by the then Chancellor — the current Prime Minister — and we have see the consequence , so will today ' s Chancellor do the right thing and publish the Department for Education ' s submission to the last spending review ? capital spending at the Department for Education go up 16 % in real term in that review . be the difference not that , with the fast recovery in Europe , the Conservatives build an economy that can pay for our school and hospital , and labour run out of money ? for month , we have have the labour economics team run down british business , berate they for not grow fast enough and ignore the fact that the OECD show that the british economy have grow fast since 2010 than Germany , Italy , Spain or France . with the recently announce Office for National Statistics upgrade that the Chancellor just refer to , what be his more hopeful message to british business ? it be very simply this : since 2010 , we have become the strong economy in Europe in film and television , life science and technology , and the opportunity be great with a Conservative Government . this week , school have fail to reopen due to the threat of collapse . worryingly , the danger do not end there , because 95 % of school and public building be estimate to contain asbestos , which be describe by Mesothelioma UK as a " silent killer " . will the Chancellor stop ignore his own Department and commit to provide the necessary funding so that our child can be prevent from be teach in crumble , asbestos - ride deathtrap ? I do not accept that characterisation at all . I do understand the impact of mesothelioma , as my father die of it , but this Government have invest £ 15 billion to keep school safe since 2015 , and the Chancellor have set out other figure as well . some 10 million call go unanswered at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs last year . of those who do get through , two third have to wait more than 10 minute ; meanwhile , four out of five HMRC staff be work from home . what be be do to improve the appalling level of customer service at HMRC ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , which I take very seriously . just to put it in context , last year HMRC receive 38 million telephone call ; around 3 million of those be to do the simple of task , which can be do digitally if at all possible . if we be able to move people on to digital channel , that will free up at least 500 people to help with more complex tax affair and help the most vulnerable . this be a period of transition for the organisation , and one that we take very seriously . I recently conduct an energy survey in Dalmarnock , which bring heartbreaking story of pensioner go to bed early to save money on their energy and many household struggle to pay the bill , even in summer . do the Minister not agree that Dalmarnock resident and people right across Scotland would benefit from a £ 400 energy rebate this winter , as the SNP propose ? we step in during the energy crisis with £ 94 billion of support , include the energy price guarantee , which effectively pay for half of people ' s energy bill . that be important while energy price be high ; wholesale gas price have now come down . as the Minister know , free access to cash be a vital lifeline for many people , include some of the most vulnerable in all our constituency . can he confirm what step he be take to ensure that free access be protect and continue to be available across the country , particularly in North Warwickshire and Bedworth ? during the summer , we announce that we have give direction to the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of access to cash : it should be no more than 1 mile in an urban area , and no more than 3 mile in my hon . friend ' s rural constituency of North Warwickshire . that be the first time that the statutory right of access to cash have exist in law . prison officer tell I that they be at break point . a key source of despair and anger be their pension age of 68 , which we should all agree be far too late . as the Treasury lead on public sector pension scheme policy , will the Chancellor allow the Ministry of Justice to restart negotiation to resolve this grossly unfair and dangerous situation ? I have not hear that matter raise before , but I be very happy to take it back and correspond with the hon . Lady on it . obviously , we have take advice on the state pension age and have make clear our policy previously , but I be happy to look at any specific case she raise . can I ask my right hon . friend when a fiscal review of all offshore energy activity will be carry out to ensure that we be maximise investment opportunity in critical energy infrastructure such as offshore wind , carbon capture and storage and hydrogen , as well as — while we still need it — domestic oil and gas ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that issue . I actually have a breakfast with clean energy industry representative this morning to discuss their concern . there be a huge amount of potential investment , and he be right to say that maximise the use of our own oil and gas reserve during transition be a vital part of our energy security policy . will the Chancellor consider introduce a windfall tax on bank ' excess profit ? the profit of the big four bank for the first half of this year be up 700 % compare with 2020 , yet the Bank of England be forecast to pay out as much as £ 42 billion in interest on reserve to bank in 2023 , at the same time as the Government have cut the level of surcharge on bank ' profit by 60 % . with million of british job dependent on financial service , include an estimate 20 , 000 job in Brighton and Hove , I hope the hon . Lady will join I in celebrate a sustainably profitable financial sector . it be only that that give we the ability to invest in skill and technology . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . will the Economic Secretary update the House on the progress he be make to enable our constituent to access personalised financial guidance if they be among the 93 % of our constituent who can not afford regulated financial advice ? my hon . friend , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , make a really important point about what be call the advice gap . treasury official , the FCA and I be consult on that , and I will publish an update this autumn . it have be reveal that Integrated Debt Services , a company set up by the UK Government to recover personal debt , see its profit increase by a staggering 132 % last year . do minister think it be right that this company should be able to profit to that extent out of the misery of the cost of living crisis ? the hon . Gentleman be refer to a company that work with the Government ' s Crown Commercial Service and that work on debt across central Government . it have to operate within a very specific framework and , indeed , it be regulate by the Financial Conduct Authority . I very much understand the point he have raise , and I will be make inquiry on that point myself . research and development tax credit be vital to help business grow and invest , but I have receive a large number of complaint from business across Essex say that they be face complexity and delay in processing claim with HMRC . may I please ask the Minister to meet I and some of these business to work through the delay and ensure that these business can continue to thrive and grow , because they be vital to our economic growth ? I would be delighted to meet my right hon . friend and those business . in fact , the UK be lead world economy with our focus on life science and on tech . in that little golden triangle between Oxford , Cambridge and London , we have more tech business than anywhere else on the planet other than New York and silicon valley . I hear the cheer opposite , so keen be Labour member to support british business , but I would be delighted to meet she and to underline the support that this Government give to such important business . I welcome the new focus on engage pension fund with productive investment , after many year when regulation have push the fund into Government gilt instead , but do the Minister have proposal specifically to secure those investment for UK business rather than their go overseas ? the right hon . Member make a significant contribution to the debate about the nation ' s pension fund . our objective to increase investment — to drive increase return for pension saver , but also to benefit the wide economy — stop short of mandate . there be a philosophical difference between this side of the House and the Opposition . we do not believe it be right for the Chancellor to tell pension fund where to invest , but it be our job to knock down barrier , friction and impedance to pension fund invest in brilliant british company . the Economic Secretary tell my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire ( Craig Tracey ) that he be go to underwrite the statutory right of access to cash , but 6 , 000 bank branch will have close by the end of the year , leave only 4 , 000 in place , and 15 , 000 atm have close in the last five year . how be he go to make sure that this actually happen , rather than it just be an empty promise ? the FCA have significant sanction in respect of the closure of atm that would leave community without the right of free access to cash . on the closure of bank branch , we be see a significant change , and I hope my right hon . friend would respect the fact that technology be change and consumer pattern be change . during the recess , I have the privilege of visit the excellent community banking hub in Brixham , which I think be a brilliant opportunity . there should be more than 100 on their way , and that be my objective . do the Chancellor accept that many people see income tax rate at the moment as exceptionally punitive , and do he also accept that there be a need to move as quickly as possible into a growth - base economy and to supercharge our economy in the United Kingdom ? as a conservative , I want to bring taxis down as soon as we can afford to do so , and I be very proud that for the first time ever people can earn £ 1 , 000 a month without pay a penny of tax or national insurance . as we want to expand our financial service industry not only in this country but abroad , we need to build confidence among consumer that the right thing to do be invest . do my hon . friend therefore agree that it be vital that regulator respond to and deal with complaint to they and actually impose sanction against those who breach the regulation ? yes , I agree with my hon . friend on this matter . it be one reason why we have beef up the role of the financial regulator review commissioner , and we will also be require the regulator to publish regular operating metric on their performance , to give consumer the trust they need . back in 2017 , both the Treasury and the Financial Conduct Authority know there be problem with the prepaid funeral plan market . since then , my constituent Gary Godwin of Nantyglo lose over £ 6 , 000 to the collapse of a company call Safe Hands . across the UK , thousand more have lose million of pound altogether . will the Minister please meet I to discuss this scandal and Mr Godwin ' s case ? yes , I will be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . what happen with Safe Hands be a scandal , and that be why we have enlarge the regulatory perimeter to bring those who seek to sell funeral plan within the regulatory conduct . over the summer port have be bid to the Government ' s infrastructure fund to help they get ready for the delivery of the new float offshore wind industry . may I encourage Ministers to look favourably on the bid from the Celtic sea port of Milford Haven and Port Talbot , because those two port be key to unlock the enormous economic benefit of this new clean energy industry ? I be absolutely happy to do that , and I agree with my right hon . friend about the enormous potential of those area . some GP practice be at risk of be price out of city centre , include in place like St Albans , because of outdated Treasury rule that prevent integrate care board from spend the money they want to on a GP practice location . Health Ministers have confirm to I that their official be happy to work with Treasury official . may I ask for a personal assurance from Treasury Ministers that they will encourage their official to look at this and resolve it by the end of this year at the absolute late ? Dialogue be ongoing on this matter and I can confirm that we will continue to work on this in the come week . Andy Haldane , the former Bank of England chief economist , recently say in a Sky News interview that the Bank of England keep on print money for long than it need to . it be clear that central bank across the world have be addict to cheap money and that this have contribute to inflation across the world . do the Chancellor agree that print cheap and easy money have not be without consequence , and instead our monetary policy must focus on important growth factor such as productivity ? I agree with what my hon . Friend say . the Bank of England itself have say there be problem with its inflation forecasting . it be learn the lesson from that and we must support it every step of the way as it bring down inflation . sorry I be late today , Mr Speaker : British Airways cancel my flight . when the Chancellor ' s predecessor , now the Prime Minister , be Chancellor there be huge fraud in the bounce back loan . have he get any of that money back yet ? we be always ferociously determined to recover money obtain through fraud , but because of those bounce back loan we have the fast recovery of any major european country . I have recently be contact by several self - employ constituent express concern about heavy fine be impose for file tax return late even though no money be owe . will the Treasury meet I with a view , perhaps , to review this policy ? I will of course be happy to meet my hon . friend . I hope he understand that I can not intervene personally in any case , but I will of course look at the general principle he set out and see whether there be systemic issue here . Nutrient Neutrality : Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities if they will make a statement on the Government ' s decision to use the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill to scrap environmental protection on nutrient neutrality . the Secretary of State for Levelling up table a write ministerial statement yesterday on the Government ' s plan , but I be happy to provide an update to the House . in propose these amendment , we be respond to call from local — order . may I just say that it be very good of you to offer to give that update ? I decide that it be an urgent question — I expect Ministers to come to the House , as I do not think a write ministerial statement be the way to inform the House . I be delighted to be here to answer this urgent question . in propose the amendment , we be respond to call from local council , which want the Government to take action to allow they to deliver the home their community need . at present , legacy EU law on nutrient neutrality be block the delivery of new home , include in case where planning permission have already be grant . this have affect home building of all type , whether that be the redevelopment of empty space above high street shop , affordable housing scheme , new care home or family build their own home . the block on building be hamper local economy and threaten to put small and medium - sized local builder out of business . nutrient enter our river be a real problem , but the contribution make by new home be very small compare with that of other source such as agriculture , industry and our exist housing stock , and the judgment be that nutrient neutrality have so far do little to improve water quality . we be already take action across Government to mandate water company to improve their waste water treatment work to the high technically achievable limit . those provision alone will more than offset the nutrient expect from new housing development , but we need to go far , fast . that be why , as well as propose target amendment to the habitat regulation , the Government be commit to a package of environmental measure . central to that be £ 280 million of funding to Natural England to deliver strategic mitigation sufficient to offset the very small amount of additional nutrient discharge attributable to up to 100 , 000 home between now and 2030 . we have also announce more than £ 200 million for slurry management and agricultural innovation in nutrient management and a commitment to accelerate protect site strategy in the most affected catchment . in our overall approach , there will be no loss of environmental outcome , and we be confident that our package of measure will improve the environment . nutrient neutrality be only ever an interim solution . with funding in place , and by put these site on a trajectory to recovery , we feel confident in make this legislative intervention . I find it extraordinary that the Minister can stand there and make that statement with a straight face . over the past eight year , Ministers have stand at that Dispatch Box and promise time and again that leave the European Union would not lead to a weakening of environmental standard . those of we who raise our concern have repeatedly be tell that we be scaremongere . as recently as 12 June , the Solicitor General say in relation to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Bill that " we will not lower environmental protection . " — [ Official Report , 21 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 828 . ] yet here we have it : proposal to unpick the habitat directive and to disapply the nutrient neutrality rule that protect our precious river and sensitive ecosystem . the Office for Environmental Protection have itself make clear that the proposal " would demonstrably reduce the level of environmental protection provide for in exist environmental law . they be a regression . " I underline that point to the hon . member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , who be chuntere from his seat on the Front Bench . the proposal go directly against the " polluter pay " principle by force the taxpayer , rather than house builder , to foot the bill for mitigate increase water pollution from house building in environmentally sensitive area . what be particularly infuriate be that , as the name suggest , the nutrient neutrality rule be not even about improve our environment , but simply about try to prevent pollution from get bad . let I ask the Minister some important question . on transparency , will the Government follow the OEP ' s call for they to make a statement , as require by section 20 ( 4 ) of the Environment Act 2021 , admit that they can no long say that the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill would not reduce environmental protection in law ? will the Minister explain how the Government will meet their objective for water quality and protect site condition when they be at the same time weaken environmental law ? what advice do Ministers receive from Natural England before the amendment be table ? will she explain why there have there be a complete lack of consultation with environment group ? will she also explain what consultation there be with house builder , whom member will have notice be cock - a - hoop about the announcement and the subsequent boost to their share price ? will the Minister admit that it be a false choice to pit house building against environmental protection when there be successful project under way to address nutrient pollution ? will the Government provide evidence for their unsubstantiated claim that 100 , 000 home be be delay as a consequence of these rule ? will she recognise that money , which can easily be take away at a later stage , be not the same as a legal requirement to stop pollution get into our river ? I thank the hon . Lady for her long list of question ; I be happy to respond to all of they in detail . on our approach , I stand by what I and the Government have say : we stand by our pledge to the environment , and we do not accept that , as she state , we will weaken our commitment to the environment at all . it be important to consider what we be talk about here , which be unblock 100 , 000 home that add very little in term of pollution . to be clear , our approach mean that there will be no overall loss in environmental outcome . not only do the measure that we be take address the very small amount of nutrient run - off from new housing , but at the same time , we be invest in the improvement of environmental outcome . we do not agree that this be regression on environmental standard . we be take direct action to continue to protect the environment and ensure that housing can be bring forward in area where people need it . the hon . Lady ask about engagement . minister across Government , the Secretary of State and I have have numerous meeting with all party involve , and we have have meeting with environment group as part of Government business . it be worth the House note the significant enforcement step take on the water company by colleague at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . since 2015 , the Environment Agency have conclude 59 prosecution against water and sewerage company , secure £ 150 million in fine . the regulator have recently launch the large criminal and civil investigation into water company sewage . we be take action against water company to protect our river , leave the environment in a well state than we find it , and build the affordable house that the country so desperately need , include in her constituency . the Minister will recognise that I and many other colleague on the Government side of the House share the admirable objective of the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) in ensure that the water quality of our river improve year by year under the Government and their successor . the Minister ' s proposal to amend the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill be not about damage the status of our river ; as I understand it , they be about deal with a particular and specific interpretation of the EU habitat directive by the European Court of Justice in connection with a case in Holland prior to the time we leave the EU . if that be the case — she have refer to the litigation and measure she have undertake — do she agree that in special area of conservation such as the River Clun catchment in my constituency , where no planning consent have be grant for nine year , these measure will help to unlock that while preserve the quality of the river in the catchment ? you have take long than the person who ask the question . I thank my right hon . friend very much . he be right in his observation that this have be a judgment impose on the United Kingdom after we leave the European Union . this be not a long - stand convention in any shape or form . he be also right to highlight the measure we be put in place to protect our river and the environment more broadly . we be also put in place a substantial package to help farmer to farm more sustainability , manage their slurry infrastructure more effectively and be able to drive the circular economy in farming that we all want . he mention specific catchment in his area . we have commit to bring forward a Wye catchment plan shortly , which I hope will address the issue he be refer to . I call Clive Betts . [ interruption . ] I be happy to go , but the shadow Minister — oh , sorry . it have take so long , I think we must have move on to Back Benchers . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . as a result of the Government ' s failure over many year to make decisive progress in tackle the main source of problem nutrient , namely farming and waste water treatment work , the requirement for nutrient neutrality in sensitive river catchment present a challenge to secure planning permission for new housing development . it be therefore right in Labour ' s view that the operation of the rule around nutrient neutrality be review with a view to address problematic delay and increase the pace at which home can be deliver in these area . however , we have serious concern about the approach that the Government have decide on . not only do it involve disapplye the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 , but it do not legally secure the additional funding pledge to deliver nutrient management programme and do not provide for a legal mechanism to ensure that housing developer contribute towards mitigation . I put the following question to the Minister : what advice do the Government receive from Natural England about potential reform of the law around nutrient neutrality ? do it offer a view on the Government ' s propose approach ? give the amount of mitigation currently available in the pipeline , which be estimate at allow for approximately 72 , 000 home , do the Government consider an approach base on the habitat regulation assessment derogation and a revise credit mitigation system to front - load permission and provide for future compensatory scheme ? if so , why do they dismiss that option ? what assessment have the Government make of the impact of their propose approach on the nascent market in mitigation credit , and investor confidence in nature market more generally ? why on earth do minister believe developer will voluntarily contribute to mitigation under the propose approach ? finally , the Government claim their approach will see 100 , 000 planning permission expedite between now and 2030 . give that house building activity be fall sharply and the pipeline for future development be be squeeze — not least as a result of housing and planning policy decision make by this Conservative Government — what assessment have the Department make of the number of permission that its disruptive approach will unlock within the first 12 month of its operation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and remark . I take they to mean that he will support the measure when they come before the House . I be delighted to hear his support for our sensible , practical and pragmatic approach to unblock much need housing across the country . he ask about our engagement with Natural England ; we have have detailed discussion . he ask about the current legal framework ; we have look at and discuss a number of option to make the change , and we be take what we believe be the right approach to unblock planning permission more quickly than the current situation allow . the hon . Gentleman refer to nature market ; he be right to highlight the groundbreaking work we be do across that piece . we be continue with our commitment to those nature market , which be a very important part of the Government ' s plan to keep our environment , protect it and leave it in a well state than we find it . that be what the Conservative Government have always be commit to and continue to be . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that we have speak to developer , who , of course , support our objective . we have very constructive dialogue with the developer , who be happy to contribute . we will have those discussion with industry , as I be sure he have hear from developer , because I know he have speak to they all . we be on the side of those builder . it be important to say that the developer most affect by the disproportionate ruling from the European Court of Justice be not the big developer but the small and medium - sized enterprise — the small builder — some of which have go bust . it be right that we stand behind they . I warmly congratulate the Government on take action on this very serious issue . I welcome sincerely the remark from the Opposition spokesperson offer qualified support for what be be do . we have an issue whereby 100 , 000 home , span 74 council area , be be block . those home have planning permission already grant , but can not be build because of the perverse legacy ruling . More to the point , could my hon . friend confirm that there be no environmental impact , because we be double investment in the nutrient mitigation scheme ? that be as well as develop protect site strategy for those catchment area affect most severely by the nutrients issue , which overwhelmingly be not cause by new housing . do she agree that the real challenge should be lay down to the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) on what she would say to all the hundred of thousand of young family out there who can not buy a home in the place they need and want , at a price they can afford ? my right hon . friend have considerable expertise in this matter . he be right to focus on the mechanism we need to bring forward to enable the much need planning permission to take effect . his region in particular be affect by this issue , and I know his constituent and people across the region will be desperate to see those home build , to allow people a step on the property ladder . we be about build a property - own democracy . my right hon . friend be also right to say that we can do that at the same time as protect the environment , which be why we have double the funding for Natural England ' s nutrient mitigation scheme . we be invest £ 200 million in slurry management infrastructure and we be help farmer with a £ 25 million sustainable package to help they invest in innovative farming technique to manage their nutrient more sustainably , which can be of benefit to their farm and agricultural process . we be go much far on those protect site , so that we deal with the problem at source . that be what we need to focus on . I call the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . this be hardly a new problem , be it ? the Court decision be in 2018 , yet last year we have the levelling - up Bill , which be really a planning Bill with a bit of level up add on — no mention of the issue there . in December we have major consultation on change to the national planning policy framework — no mention of the issue there . the Committee write to the Minister and ask how many more consultation on planning issue there would be this year . we be give nine of they — no mention of the issue there . if it be such a serious issue , why have it take the government so long to act ? it look like the Government be make it up as they go along . this be a panicked response from the Government to the collapse number of housing start which the Minister simply want to do something — anything — about . I very much value the hon . Gentleman ' s scrutiny of the Government ' s record and I very much enjoy come before his Committee . we have discuss this issue , and many other , with his Committee in the past . it be right that we be take this action . it be a serious and complex issue , and we need time to consider all the legal aspect of it . however , what I come back to time and time again be that we need to unblock planning permission . we need housing all over the country . we be do that at the same time as protect the environment and I very much hope to have further dialogue with he about this in the future . it be always baffle to hear those who believe in environmental improvement say that only the EU way work . do the Minister agree with I that outside the EU we have be able to adapt our law to what work for this country , and also make improvement such as marine protect area and provide support to agriculture outside the common agricultural policy ? to say that leave the EU have mean a degradation in our approach to the environment be simply nonsense . my right hon . friend speak from vast experience on this issue . I can do no more than agree strongly with every word . leave the EU allow we to make the law that be right for our country , most specifically in the area of build the home we need across his area and across the whole country . the point here be also that the EU legacy judgment have not improve the quality of the water . that be why we be take further step to mitigate the problem at source . everybody who care about the quality of water should welcome that . the UK be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . the Government have just set up the Office for Environmental Protection — I be on the Environment Bill Committee when we do that — which say that this planning change be a regression in environmental protection . we should not just throw out the rule when they be a bit difficult . what advice do the Government receive from Natural England — the Minister say she speak with it — on its approach to problem nutrient ? do Natural England green - light the proposal or be it be ignore , along with the Office for Environmental Protection ? Natural England be a Government partner . we work very closely with it , as well as with local planning authority . we rely on Natural England to carry out some of the mitigation scheme , the nutrient credit scheme , and many other . in response to the Office for Environmental Protection , we have a different view . the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) set out very clearly her response to the Office for Environmental Protection . we do not agree with it . fundamentally , we do not agree that this be a regression in environmental outcome overall . it be perfectly possible to make housing development nitrate neutral in the first place . bearwood development in my constituency contain over 2 , 000 new house and be nitrate neutral through sustainable drainage and building technique , so we can have new home without compromise our environment and without take good - quality farm land out for mitigation . will my hon . friend ensure that planning law match that ambition ? I thank my hon . friend very much . she be right to focus on some of the very good work that be already take place through some individual project I be aware be be bring forward . she be also right to highlight the role that sustainable drainage can take and we have commit to look at that more broadly to see what more can be do with that particular policy . planning law be very clear . it have to leave the environment in a well state than it find it , not only in her area but across the country . of course we need more housing , but in my constituency the sewer be over capacity , victorian and clap out . I invite the Minister to meet some of the household where in time of heavy rain raw sewage not only pollute the environment but float around the street , the garden and even the kitchen . it be simply not acceptable to imagine we can somehow wave a wand to solve the housing problem . finally , may I draw the attention of the House to an excellent website call " Top of the Poops " , which state that in my constituency there be 4 , 468 hour of sewage last year alone ? that be completely unacceptable . DEFRA Ministers have be at this Dispatch Box multiple time to update colleague on the work that the Government be proud to do as part of the plan for water . this be the most ambitious and stringent package that have be bring forward to tackle this abhorrent issue . we agree with the hon . Gentleman that storm overflow and sewage overflow be wrong . that be why the £ 2 . 2 billion of new accelerated investment will be direct into vital infrastructure . we be clear that the volume of sewage discharge into our water be unacceptable and that be why we have take action in term of strong regulation , more fine and tough enforcement across the board to tackle every source of river and sea pollution . as the Minister know , the level of Somerset be some of the most environmentally enhance area in the UK . Natural England have destroy chance for development . we be about to start build the Tata factory , the large factory that this country have see for a long time . that need to be sort and I would like the Minister ' s thought . conversely , the reality also slip . South West Water , which be an abomination , have just announce it will stop pollutant from 120 , 000 hectare by 2025 . can we please have a grip on the reality of both side of this issue ? if we do not , nothing will be develop in part that be environmentally sensitive . I be aware that my hon . Friend represent an area with acute environmental sensitivity and he be right to raise those concern on the Floor of the House . we work across Government not only to tackle the storm overflow issue to which he refer , but to find a way to allow house building and other type of building that be much need to drive job and investment , and to support business in his constituency , without that have a weakening effect on our environment . I wonder if I could pick up on something the Minister say a moment ago . Natural England be not a government partner ; it be a Government agency . so far as this issue be concern , it be literally the Government . this rule have exist since 2019 and the Government ' s guidance on it have indeed get in the way of genuinely affordable , environmentally sustainable housing scheme in the Lake District and , I be sure , elsewhere . the answer be not to scrap it but to change the guidance to make it more intelligent , so that we protect our waterway and our landscape from pollution without prevent vital development . why do the Government spend four year dither before panic , overreact and then act in line with their own nature by damage british nature ? the hon . Gentleman make his point in his usual way , but without confront the reality of the situation that affect his constituent . of course Natural England be a Government partner and a Government body . we work in partnership with Natural England . we work constructively with it to tackle these complex legal issue . I be sure he would be the first to jump up and complain if we take action too quickly without consider the consequence . as it be , what we be do be a sensible , proportionate measure to allow much need development in the Lake District : home for his constituent that have the planning permission to be build — finally . labour - run Kirklees Council be sit on million of pound of unspent section 106 developer contribution for local infrastructure . much of that unspent cash be for environmental project . what confidence should we in my area have that our shambolic Labour - run Kirklees Council will be able to deliver these mitigation environmental project when it be actually not deliver for our local environment as it be ? my hon . friend be completely right to raise the record — in his word , the shambolic record — of his local labour - run council . what I can say to reassure he and other colleague be that I have engage with local authority leader to explain to they exactly what this change mean for they , what we expect they to do , and what they should be do on behalf of their resident to make sure the money be spend properly to protect the river , sea and lake , and get house build . be it not the case that the only one block the development of the house that we need , include genuinely affordable social housing — a pitiful number be build last year ; I think it be just over 7 , 000 — be those on the Government Benches ? it be the Tory Government who be the blocker of housing development to meet housing need . that be the case , be it not , Minister ? it might sound very nice on the hon . Gentleman ' s Facebook clip , but if he actually look at the fact he will find it be conservative - run council that have , on the whole , deliver more house over the last few year in respond to the need of their constituent , and labour - run council that be experience significant failure in deliver the house that their resident need . the Minister have lift a blight from my constituency , but as a result of these measure we be all go to be swim in clean water as well , aren ' t we ? we be , and I look forward to join my right hon . friend in swim in some clean water very soon . the Minister rightly say that too many house building company be go bust , but may I gently suggest that that be a consequence of the Government ' s crash the economy last year , inflation push up the cost of material , and a skill shortage ? the Government claim that their approach will see 100 , 000 permission expedite between now and 2030 , but give this context , what be that assessment actually base on , and have the Minister consult local authority ? yes , we have consult local authority , and I make no apology for stand up and take action when it be need to help small builder in particular . the diversity of the sector in this country , unlike that in other country , be disproportionately skew towards large developer , and it be therefore right for we , as a Conservative Government , to back small business . we understand what people go through to start a business , which be why we be take action to help they . I welcome the Government ' s balanced approach , which will improve the long - term quality of the River Stour in my constituency while allow much - need planning permission for new home to start again . thousand of people , very sensibly , want to live in Ashford , and they want to see new home build , not least in accordance with the local plan rather than be build opportunistically around the place , which be what the delay in permission have lead to . can the Minister give we some indication of a timescale and when council such as Ashford can start grant planning permission again ? my right hon . friend be entirely correct and I thank he for his support . we need to wait for the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill to achieve Royal Assent — it must , of course , undergo parliamentary scrutiny in both Houses — but we be work apace . we have already start that engagement with local authority and partner , Natural England and other , to ensure that they have all the operational detail that they need . what we need to see be spade in the ground as soon as possible . it be clear from the Minister ' s reply that her statutory adviser , Natural England , oppose this move , so will she please publish its advice ? instead of let developer and water company off the hook and pour even more sewage into our waterway , why do she not take the advice of her right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) and reverse the Prime Minister ' s disastrous decision to scrap local housing target , which have give nimby council carte blanche to do nothing ? what I take issue with in the right hon . Gentleman ' s question — plural — be his comment that we scrap housing target . we have do no such thing . we be commit to build 1 million home during this Parliament , and we have the target of build 300 , 000 home every year . that be a very important target that we stand by . what we be do , unlike the Labour party , be take account of local community . what Labour would do be build all over the green belt , and I can tell the House that its own mp be not in favour of that : they be block development in their constituency . what we have be a sensible , proportionate approach — to build the right house in the right place . what the negative social medium debate about all this have mask be the fact that a significant amount of work be be do to create , conserve and improve wetland around the country . the all - party parliamentary group for wetland , which I chair , be support the drive by the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust to create 100 , 000 additional hectare of wetland in this country , and we would also like to see a dedicated domestic wetland team in DEFRA to repeat its success in peat productivity . will my hon . friend give we more information about how expert organisation such as the WWT in Slimbridge , in my patch , can apply for the £ 280 million to continue positive progress on environmental matter , and will she assist my effort to get the wetland team up and run ? I know that my hon . friend do extremely good work on behalf of Slimbridge and other wetland in her area . I should be delighted to meet she , and to read any of the report produce by her APPG . I think it important to stress again that the package to be deliver through the work of Natural England and the credit scheme must continue , and we will be boost they because we know of the benefit that they have for my hon . friend ' s area and many other . do the Minister accept that the propose investment in the Natural England nutrient mitigation scheme cover only 15 % of the total mitigation requirement to 2030 ? where will the additional fund require to address the shortfall come from ? I do not accept that figure , and I do not know where the hon . Lady get it . those scheme be very much in progress at the moment , on an ongoing basis . we be work through some of the detail . I should also mention that as well as the Natural England scheme we have the Government ' s own scheme , administer by my Department , which we will be able to deliver throughout the country . do the Minister agree that there be a flaw in the way in which the Office for Environmental Protection have reach its determination in this matter ? it can take into account only what be in the Bill . it can not take into account the other measure that the Minister have mention , the Natural England nutrient neutrality programme and the investment in slurry management . surely , to form a more coherent view of the environmental impact of these measure , it be necessary to look at all measure in the round , not just legislative measure . my hon . friend be of course extremely perceptive and he be absolutely correct . we present an ambitious package overall , and that mean we can meet head - on the challenge of deliver the much - need planning permission that my hon . friend will no doubt welcome in his area — which I know need more housing — and also protect and enhance our environment . in its recent comment , the Office for Environmental Protection have interpret this in a very narrow fashion , and we do not necessarily agree with its assessment . I know that the Minister have struggle previously with what constitute retain EU legislation , but what we be talk about today be an amendment to the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 . the challenge before the Minister be that this Government pledge , on the record , not once but seven time during the debate on the Bill that become the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , that they would not reduce those explicit environmental protection . will she say now whether that pledge to match those environmental protection directly remain , or do she want to take this opportunity to correct the record and admit that the Government ' s word on the environment be not worth the paper it be write on ? I think that what I be struggle with be the fact that the hon . Lady clearly do not listen to my previous comment on this matter . I have say a great many time that we do not agree that this be a regression in environmental outcome , and we stand by that . we be the Conservative Government , and we be commit to leave the environment in a well state than the one in which we find it . that be back up by a strong package of action across numerous area . my constituency be one of the worst - affect place in the entire country , with 2 , 000 planning application hold up and thousand of people at risk of lose their job . we be talk not about large construction company , but about everyday job builder — people with family to feed . this be a great step towards get the country move again and solve an intractable problem . may I ask the Minister a very simple question ? if I build a small house , or put a little extension on the side of my current house , be I really damage the watercourse to the same degree as pig farming and chicken farming ? be these well - intend law completely miss the mark of what they be intend to do in the first place ? the simple answer to my hon . friend ' s question be that he be right . the exist legal framework that have be hinder we have have a disproportionate effect on plan permission and house building when the main source of the pollution lie elsewhere . overall , this package will be able to deliver house building and extension in my hon . friend ' s constituency , help the small builder and , of course , protect our river . in an industrial area such as Teesside , environmental standard be critical , include around water quality and our riverside . will the new policy framework lead to increase fund for the Canal & River Trust , which have see its budget decimate in recent year , lead to huge cut in its activity and the removal of every single litter bin on its land around the River Tees ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the concern of the Canal & River Trust . I be sure that his comment will have be hear by DEFRA Ministers , but I will be happy to take those concern back to they and ask they to provide an answer . follow the question from the hon . member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) on mitigation , the Government ' s focus seem to be on wetland , but if we be honest it will take a long time to fully mitigate the possible additional pollution . what will be do in the interim to deal with this pollution before the wetland become fully operational ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the fact that there be a focus on wetland but other project be in scope of the credit scheme . however , she have hit the nail on the head : the key point be that some of these thing take a very long time to come on stream but we need to start unblock those house now , which be why we have take this proportionate approach with the amendment . over the summer , I meet member of the Bedfordshire Great Ouse Valley Environment Trust . they be concerned that our river be the fifth most polluted in England with forever toxin — the level be a shocking 10 time that consider safe — not to mention raw sewage and nitrate and phosphate contamination . can the Minister explain to my constituent why the Government be decrease protection for our beautiful river when what be need be an urgent plan to clean up our dirty waterway ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman and anyone else listen to this , include his constituent , that the package we be bring forward will protect the river and enable it to be in a clean state . that be back up by our plan for water and the further announcement we be put in place today . what be more , I know from his correspondence that his constituent also want to see affordable housing be build , and that be what this will enable . my constituent , whether they live in urban Lancaster or in one of the rural Wyre village , recognise the need for housing across north Lancashire , but they also recognise the ripping up of environmental protection when they see it , and they do not like that . the Minister seem to be very concerned about small house builder who be go bust , so will she take this opportunity to apologise on behalf of her Government , who crash the economy , push up inflation and make material more expensive and who have not deal with the land banking that be really hold back house building ? what I would like to see from member on the other side of the House be an apology for talk this country down , which they have do repeatedly . I be not sure whether the hon . Lady be able to tune in to Treasury question recently when the Chancellor set the record straight on how we now have one of the fast - grow rate in the G7 . it be this Conservative Government who will get every industry go , include the house building industry and small and large builder . we be on the side of the builder , not the blocker . the Minister refer to the doubling of investment in a nutrient mitigation scheme , with £ 200 million put into slurry management , yet 80 % of phosphate in the UK ' s river be from household and only 15 % be from agriculture . be this just another example of this Government pass the buck and blame farmer for pollution in our river ? I would be happy to sit down with the hon . Gentleman and explain to he what be mean by slurry management grant . we be help farmer to build a circular economy . he will know that this be a valuable resource . farmer will welcome this intervention because they know that it could help they to farm more sustainably . Most farmer I talk to want to work in harmony with nature . that be what we be do . I do not know what the Liberal Democrats ’ policy be , though . this Tory Government be fail on housing and the environment pay the price . it be not an either / or . our Welsh Labour Government be deliver on both in Wales . they have be work strategically with all stakeholder , with high - level nutrient management board set up to tackle precisely this issue , sometimes chair by the First Minister himself — they be always chair by Ministers — as well as bring through regulation to improve agricultural water quality and get home build as well . if the Welsh Labour Government can do both , why can ' t this Government ? the Welsh Labour Government have a shocking record on house building , as they have on many issue . what be more , they be not tackle the issue at source , which be why we be bring forward our catchment plan and our protect site strategy . a lot of the river that be drain from Wales be impact negatively on constituency in England . the only thing I agree with in the hon . Lady ' s rather stilte comment be that this be not an either / or . if she have listen to what I be say , she would know that we be do both . we be protect the environment , protect our river and bring forward housing . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . Work Capability Assessment Consultation with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on our propose change to the work capability assessment , which aim to ensure that no one who can work be permanently write out of this country ' s strong labour market story . it be a story that have see nearly 4 million more people in work compare with 2010 , 2 million more disabled people in work than in 2013 and record number of people on payroll . but although the overall number of people who be economically inactive have fall strongly from its pandemic peak , there remain over 2 . 5 million people who be inactive because of long - term sickness and disability . yet we know that one in five people on incapacity benefit who be currently not expect to prepare for work want to work in the future if the right job and support be available , and the proportion of people go through a work capability assessment who be be give the high level of award and deem to have no work - relate requirement at all have rise from 21 % in 2011 to 65 % last year . this situation be exclude significant number of people from receive employment support to help they to move close to work opportunity . it be hold back the labour market and the economy , but perhaps most important of all , it be hold back human potential . I want to ensure that everybody who can do so benefit from all the opportunity that work bring — not just the financial security , but all the physical and mental health benefit too . no one who can work should be leave behind . that be why , early this year , we announce an extra £ 2 billion - worth of investment to help disabled people and those with health condition to move into work . that include bring in our new universal support employment programme , which will assist disabled people and those with health condition to connect with vacancy and provide support and training to help they to start and stay in a role . through our individual placement and support in primary care programme , we be invest £ 58 million to help more than 25 , 000 people to start and stay in work . we be modernise mental health service in England , provide wellness and clinical app , pilot cutting - edge digital therapy and digitise the NHS talk therapy programme . we have also publish fundamental reform to the health and disability benefit system through our health and disability White Paper . that will see the end of the work capability assessment and a new personalised tailor approach to employment support to help everyone to reach their full potential . the scale of our reform mean that it will take time to implement they , but there be change we can make more quickly that will also make a difference . so before the White Paper come in , I want to make sure that the work capability assessment — the way we assess how someone ' s health limit their ability to work , and therefore the support they need — be deliver the right outcome and support those most in need . today my Department be launch a consultation on measure to ensure that those who can work be give the right support and opportunity to move off benefit and towards the job market . as I have say , we know that many people who be on out - of - work benefit due to a health condition want to work and , assist by modern working practice , could do so while manage their condition effectively . we have see a huge shift in the world of work over the last few year , a huge change that have accelerate since the pandemic . this have open up more opportunity for disabled people and those with health condition to start , stay and succeed in work . the rise in flexible working and homeworking have bring new opportunity for disabled people to manage their condition in a more familiar and accessible environment . more widely , there have be improvement in the approach many employer take to workplace accessibility and reasonable adjustment for staff . and a well understanding of mental health condition and neurodiversity have help employer to identify opportunity to adapt job role and the way disabled people and people with health condition work . the consultation I be publish be about update the work capability assessment so that it keep up with the way people work today . the activity and descriptor within the work capability assessment , which help to decide whether people have any work preparation requirement to improve their chance of get work , have not be comprehensively review since 2011 , so it be right that we look afresh at how we can update they give the huge change we have see in the world of work . for instance , the work capability assessment do not reflect how someone with a disability or health condition might be able to work from home , yet many disabled people do just that . our plan include take account of the fact that people with mobility problem , or who suffer anxiety within the workplace , have well access to employment opportunity due to the rise in flexible working and homeworking . we be consult on whether change should be make to four of the activity and descriptor that determine whether someone can work , or prepare to work , to reflect change in working practice and well employment support . this include look at change , remove or reduce the point for descriptor relate to mobilising , continence , social engagement and get about . we be not consult on change to the remain descriptor , which will remain unaltered . these change will not affect people who be near the end of life or receive cancer treatment , nor will they affect the majority of activity for those with severe disablement , such as if a person have severe learning disability or be unable to transfer from one seat to another . we be also consult on change to the provision for claimant who would otherwise be capable of work preparation activity but be exclude from work preparation requirement on the basis of substantial risk , most commonly on mental health ground . the original intention for substantial risk be for it to be advise only in exceptional circumstance . it be intend to provide a safety net for the most vulnerable , but the application of risk have go beyond the original intent . we be therefore consult on how we might change how substantial risk apply , so that people can access the support they need to move close to work and a more fulfilling life . we be also consider the tailored and appropriate support that will be need for this group , safely help they move close to work . these proposal will help people to move into , or close to , the labour market and fulfil their potential . we be consult over the next eight week to seek the view of disabled people , employer , charity and other on our propose change . if the proposal be take forward follow consultation , the early we could implement any change would be from 2025 , give the need to make change to regulation and to ensure appropriate training for health assessor . these plan be part of our wide approach to ensure that we have a welfare system that encourage and support people into work , while provide a vital safety net for those who need it most . a welfare system that focus on what people can do , not on what they can not do , and that reflect the modern change to the world of work . it be time to share the opportunity of work far more fairly . it be time for work to be truly available to all those who can benefit from it . it be time to get Britain work . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for early sight of his statement . I know from talk to disabled people in my constituency and across the country that work can bring dignity and self - respect through the choice , control and autonomy from have money in their pocket and make the contribution they want to make in life . work be the reason for my political party , and support work people be why Labour member get up in the morning . that belief be share by the british public , include hundred of thousand of people who currently feel shut out of the workplace and trap on benefit when they could work if they have the right help and support . on this Government ' s watch , a staggering 2 . 6 million people be now out of work as a result of long - term sickness . that be the high number ever , up almost half a million since the pandemic alone . this be a serious challenge for million of our constituent and for the economy , and it deserve a serious response , but that be not what we have see today . labour have be warn for year that benefit assessment be not fit for purpose and , crucially , that unless we have a proper plan to support sick and disabled people who can work , even more will end up trap in a degrading benefit system , cost they and the taxpayer far more . labour have already set out plan to transform the back - to - work help that be available by personalise employment support and tackle the huge backlog in our NHS and social care . our " into work guarantee " will let people try work without fear of lose their benefit . our plan be back by the Centre for Social Justice , the Social Security Advisory Committee and disabled people ' s organisation . why not the Secretary of State ? we will ensure that employment support meet specific local need through proper devolution to local area and , when disabled people get a job , we will make sure they get the support they need to keep they there as soon as they need it , rather than have to wait for month on end . we will study the consultation carefully , but I see nothing in the statement that match labour ' s vision or scale of ambition . it do not even deal with the glare problem in the current system . eighty per cent of personal independence payment decision be overturn at tribunal , of which only 2 % be because new evidence have become available . how will the proposal make any difference to the totally inadequate decision making that cause untold stress to disabled people and waste million of pound of taxpayer ' money ? the backlog of Access to work assessment have treble to 25 , 000 since the pandemic . how will the proposal help to bring that down ? where be the plan to help slash waiting list for help with anxiety and depression , which we know be a major problem , or to get the carer that family need to look after sick and disabled relative so that they themselves can work ? this be not a serious plan . it be tinker at the edge of a fail system . if you run your NHS into the ground for 13 year and let waiting list for physical and mental health soar , if you fail to reform social care to help people care for their love one and if your sole aim be to try to score political point rather than reform the system to get sick and disabled people who can work the help they really need , you end up with the mess we have today : a system that be fail sick and disabled people , fail taxpayer and fail our country as a whole . Britain deserve far well than this . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . it be gratify that she agree with much of the premise I set out . she recognise the importance of work and that 2 . 5 million people , or thereabout , be on long - term sick and disability benefit — we be all equally concerned that the number be grow . she also argue that the work capability assessment , in its current form , be not fit for its require purpose , which be exactly why we be come forward with these reform . she refer to the PIP assessment requirement , which be not relevant to the work capability assessment that we be discuss and that be subject to the current consultation . we clearly have a plan . the hon . Lady have be in her position for a very short period , and I respect and understand that . I invite she to look closely at the announcement that be make — the £ 2 billion - worth of support at the last fiscal statement , include our White Paper reform in exactly the area where she be seek progress ; the universal support ; and the WorkWell programme . she mention work with local provider , and there be a huge drive on that . as for mental health , we be consult on occupational health across business to make sure that we get in right at the start where people may otherwise end up on a long - term health journey . we be also work closely with the NHS on get employment adviser involve , for example , in talk therapy , which we know be so effective in address mental health concern . I strongly support the initiative to help more people who be long - term sick and disable into work where they wish to do that . my query be : why on earth be it go to take so long ? we need to be do this now , to ease our workplace shortage and to give those people early support and hope . will my right hon . friend please work with his official to speed it all up ? I share my right hon . friend ' s keenness to see these proposal — whatever may or may not emerge — come forward as soon as possible . they will require a lot of work on it system and change to system . the provider will have to incorporate the change that may or not come forward as a result of this consultation . let I reassure he that , give the benefit there will be to many people who will otherwise not benefit from work , I be as anxious as he be to make sure that we move forward at speed . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . the big difference between the SNP and the Conservative and Labour party be that we do not approach this from the point of view that people be somehow on the make and on the take ; we do not assume that when somebody come for an assessment they be somehow try to cheat the Government . that be why it be important that the Select Committee on Work and Pensions note in its recent report the concern that disabled people be still experience psychological distress as a result of undergo these health assessment . let I show just how perverse some of those assessment be . one of the first constituency case I deal with as an MP involve someone literally be ask at an assessment whether they still have autism . that give we an idea of how fundamentally flawed this whole process be . have the Secretary of State read the Institute for Public Policy Research report that come out today ? it make a specific recommendation to : " Limit conditionality to facilitate person - centre support on universal credit . " it say : " People with health condition , single parent and parent of young child on universal credit should be exempt from requirement or financial penalty under any circumstance . " have he see that ? will the Secretary of State also agree to look again at the Access to work scheme ? far too often , the Government ' s own Committee have receive evidence that show that access to Work simply be not work . I come back to my fundamental point : will the Government change their philosophy — this deep suspicion that somehow claimant be on the make and on the take ? all they actually need be support from their government . I respect the hon . gentleman ; have appear before the Select Committee , I know how seriously he take the matter that he have raise . however , I can not accept be describe as bear down on those who be " on the make and on the take " . if he can find any example of myself or my Ministers make those assertion , I would like to see it . in the absence of that , I hope that he will be big enough to withdraw those comment . the hon . Gentleman do not like the assessment , but we hear nothing about alternative or what the SNP ' s plan be to replace assessment . if there be inherent problem with assessment , presumably the logic be that he be not go to assess anybody at all . so we do not know what his plan be . he refer to conditionality , so let I make a point about that . there be those whose health and disability situation be such that I passionately recognise that they should not be expect to undergo any work to look for work or to carry out work itself . as a compassionate society , we should be there to support those people , and we will continue to do so . but where somebody can work , there be a contract between the state and the individual : if people be to be support and they can work , it be right that they should be expect to do so . in those circumstance , the conditionality should apply . the hon . Gentleman make specific reference to access to work . that programme provide up to about £ 65 , 000 for each individual involve to bring forward adaptation to the workplace to accommodate that individual into employment . it be a huge commitment on the part of this Government , and I can inform he that the late figure I have be that 88 % of those application be be process within 10 day . it be greatly welcome that we be try to get the assessment to give people the outcome they deserve , but it be intriguing to make what sound like a fundamental change to an assessment that we be go to try to scrap in a few year ' time . will the Secretary of State set out how many of the 2 . 5 million people he cite as be in this situation he think would not be in the same group after these change ? how many of they will have a chance to be reassess before we scrap the assessment entirely ? I deal in my statement with my hon . friend ' s question about why we be do this , give that we will be get rid of the WCA in due course : I say that there be no reason why we can not bring forward these benefit early , even though we be go to be remove the WCA altogether . as for the number impact , we know that about one in five people on those benefit do want to work , give the right support . until the consultation be conclude and we know the exact nature of the policy change that we may or may not be make at that point , we will not be able to assess the number exactly . this will lead to a lot of fear among disabled people . I appreciate the tone that the Secretary of State have take , but the record of the past 13 year have be one of exclude the most vulnerable disabled people from more support than they need . we know that disabled people be a group who be live in huge poverty . we also know that some of they have die , not just through suicide , but because of the lack of safeguarding in the Department and how it operate . so I urge he to ensure that the safeguard system within the Department ensure that people be protect . I agree with the SNP spokesperson about Access to work ; we be talk about 4 million disabled people able to work and 35 , 000 be provide with it through Access to Work . I listen to the hon . Lady ' s remark with great respect ; have appear before she at the Select Committee , I know how serious she be about the issue she raise and how strongly she promote her idea and concern . she mention the lack of support available for the people in the situation we be describe , which be precisely why I want to start provide more support to they by make these reform . let I make an important point in an area where I be in agreement with she : we need to do this in the right way . we need to listen carefully to those who will be affect by any change we may bring forward , which be why we have a full eight - week consultation . my Ministers and I will be engage closely with the various stakeholder , disabled people and so on . we will of course welcome her comment as part of that process . when I be a Minister , whenever I go on a visit I would ask young disabled people what they would do if they be the Minister . they say that they would always want to have the same career opportunity as their friend . I therefore welcome any move to make more personalised and tailor support available , to build on our record disability employment . however , we lose more than 300 , 000 people a year from the workplace and the majority of long - term health condition and disability develop during the work age . so during this consultation I urge the Secretary of State to work with employer to see what more support and advice they need to make sure that people do not ever have to even enter the WCA system . I thank my hon . friend for that typically sensible and astute intervention . may I personally thank he for the advice and input he have give over the precede month , particularly in this area ? he be right that we should be proud of our record of assist disabled people into work — 2 million more in work since 2013 . equally , he be right about address the hundred of thousand of people with these kind of difficulty and challenge who be leave business and the workforce every year . I recognise that it be essential to get help to those people as early as possible , before they progress too far along that health journey . that be why we be already consult on occupational health , so that we can make sure that be roll out more effectively across large and medium - sized business . in his statement , the Secretary of State mention that four descriptor would be review , but there be no plan for any other change . he certainly do not mention add any descriptor . at yesterday ' s Westminster Hall petition debate on disability assessment , one of the key issue discuss be remit and relapse condition , particularly fatigue . will the Secretary of State commit to look at fatigue , and either add it as a descriptor or tell we what he be go to do about it instead ? nothing in the consultation exclude bring forward exactly the point that the hon . Lady make . I hope she will do just that , and encourage other to do so as well . the Secretary of State be quite right to refer to the 2 million additional people with disability who have come into work since 2010 . he will recall that the first Disability Confident event , hold in 2013 , be in Gloucester . his Department work closely with charity and employer to ensure that more opportunity happen . I have meet many people who benefit from that programme , so I support he in the principle . can he confirm that he will engage closely with charity and organisation such as Seetec Pluss , which have a lot of experience in help to bring people with disability back into the workplace ? I thank my hon . friend for all the passion and intelligence he bring to these issue . I can confirm that our door will be open to Seetec Pluss . in fact , I will go far and make sure that our official reach out to my hon . friend to ensure that that happen . in a key paragraph of his statement , the Secretary of State appear to envisage that he will either remove or reduce the descriptor give access to benefit for people who have problem with mobility or be incontinent . will he explain what he mean by that ? will he also tackle problem on the other side of the world of work , include rogue employer exploit people through low - pay part - time or temporary job ? one in nine worker be in poverty as a result . be it not time that he take on the employer rather than the poor in our society ? that sentiment of take on the employer be probably not conducive to have an economy that be generate the job that have occur under this government . as to the descriptor — indeed , the activity — that the hon . Gentleman refer to , there be a plethora of information out there about exactly what those mean . if he have trouble find that , I would be very happy to have my Department point he in the right direction . the Secretary of State rightly point to the tripling of the number of people receive the high award after a work capability assessment . do he share my concern that a false assumption be grow not only that those people can not work , but that they should not work , which therefore write they off ? do we not have a serious moral obligation to remove all sort of barrier that come between those individual and the workplace ? his approach be exactly right in try to target those obstacle that most get in the way of people enjoy the agency and autonomy that activity in the workplace bring . I thank my hon . friend for the advice and support he have give I when we have discuss these issue over the last few month . I know he be extremely knowledgeable in this area . he be absolutely right that we do not want people to be trap , to use that expression , on benefit . we want to help people to move into the labour market and work . that be well for the economy and the labour market , but most importantly it be well for the physical and mental health of the individual concern , as show by all the evidence . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on myalgic encephalomyelitis . the Secretary of State have say that the work capability assessment be not fit for purpose , and many disabled people with invisible or fluctuating condition would agree with he entirely . they report not be believe , their medical evidence be disregarded and leave the assessment feeling as though they have be belittle by the assessor . the Department of Health and Social Care be undergo a massive change in the way it deal with people with I and other condition like I . can he provide an assurance that his Department will look at how people with I and other invisible disability be be consider through work capability assessment ? I can give the hon . Lady exactly that assurance when it come to I . I point she to the White Paper that we publish in March , in which we make a clear commitment on fluctuate condition and say that we would test and trial around those condition , as part of the White Paper process . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and thank he for his offer of more personal , tailor support for disabled people , who we must always do our good to help and support . give that this be the 21st century and there have be huge advance in medical treatment , adaptation of building to help disabled people , improvement in mobility device and a rapid rise in digital connectivity , it be staggering that the proportion of people go through a WCA who be deem to have no work - relate requirement at all have go up from a fifth to almost two third in just over a decade . why do the Secretary of State think it be like that ? it be correct that we have go from 21 % to 65 % in that short space of time and I recognise that that statistic be simply unacceptable . we know that one in five people in that group want to work , give the right support , and we need to do something about that . quite rightly , my hon . Friend also raise the fundamental change in the way that work be conduct in the modern world . the last time the work capability assessment be review for reform be 10 year ago . that be inadequate and it be now time to make appropriate change . there be 76 , 000 people in Wales with a severely limit condition . new research this summer show that four in 10 of they be have to skip or cut down on meal or have go without heating . be the Secretary of State confident that the propose change will remedy that ? it be a fact that people be well off , on average , be in work than be on benefit . I pay tribute to my predecessor who introduce universal credit , which make that the case . bring people into work who would not otherwise be in work mean that they will , on average , be well off . this Government have increase the national living wage by over 9 % — it have be £ 10 . 42 since April — and have introduce cost of live support for 8 million low - income household , 6 million disabled people , pensioner and so on . in response to the hon . Gentleman , the propose change be another step in exactly the right direction . in response to my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) , the Secretary of State refer to the statistic of 65 % . it strike I that out of that 65 % of people , a number of they could work , should work or want to work , because that be the good thing for they . build on the 2 million people with disability who we have get back into work , be it not the case that there must be people who be trap in that 65 % ? be it not imperative for the Secretary of State and his official to get those people into the world of work as soon as possible ? my hon . friend have use exactly the right word : it be imperative that we get those people into the world of work . if somebody be on benefit — and we know that one in five of those people would , with the right support , like to get into work — it be our duty as a Government and as a society to do whatever we can to support they . in 2011 , this Government say that they would help 100 , 000 disabled people into employment through dedicated personalised support , such as Access to work . in the 12 year since , the number of disabled people support by Access to Work have rise from 37 , 000 to 38 , 000 . give the Department ' s failure and the wide context of cut , would disabled people not be forgive for think that this be just further cut dress up as modernisation ? not at all , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have set out very clearly the principle reason why we be bring forward these measure . as the hon . Gentleman will know , when it come to more disabled people move into the workforce , we set a target for the 10 - year period from 2017 to see a million more disabled people in employment . we break that target in half that time , reach 1 . 3 million in addition after just five year . the number of people who be economically inactive due to long - term sickness have reach a record high of 2 . 55 million , which be very concerning . give the Secretary of State ' s fanfare today , what level of reduction in those figure would he measure as a success in support disabled people into secure and sustainable employment ? what specific improvement do he envisage to the sorely inadequate access to work scheme to prevent the disability employment gap widen even far ? I have address the issue of Access to work — what a significant programme it be and the recent improvement in the processing of those particular award . on economic inactivity , I make two point . first , compare with the EU , the OECD and the G7 , economic activity overall be below the average across those different group . secondly , it have decline by about 360 , 000 since the peak that occur during the pandemic , and that in substantial part be due to the policy of this Government . it be very noticeable that the Secretary of State do not answer the question of the hon . member for Wellingborough about why he believe that there have be a trebling of the number of people who be now get the maximum verdict under the work capability assessment . I have help many of my constituent who have have problem with their WCA , and not one of they have come to I and say that it be the WCA that be keep they out of work . many of they have say that it be not nuance enough to understand the issue , and I welcome the fact that it be to be replace . however , can the Secretary of State tell we what assessment he have make of how many people be likely to win their appeal after the change that he have bring in , and what percentage be win they now ? at the moment , huge number be win their appeal , which make it clear that the work capability assessment be not work . I feel duty bind to correct the hon . Gentleman . it be my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Mr Hollobone ) who ask the question to which he refer . of all the member in this House , he be probably the one who promote his constituency the most , and he should be laud for do so . the bottom line be that we know that one in five , or thereabout , of those who be receive these benefit at the moment actually want to do some work , if they be support in do so . that mean that we have a duty to look at the way that the WCA operate and to look at reform it to make sure that , in every case that somebody can do some work to the benefit of themselves and the economy , we facilitate that . I have be support a disabled student who have not be able to access universal credit because their work capability assessment be not complete before they start their study . they be now at risk of drop out of university , because they can not work to support themselves through their course because of their disability , and they can not access social security either . that mean that they can not improve their skill and ability , when that might lead to an opportunity of employment in the future . what resource or flexibility , if any , be feature in this consultation and the Department ' s plan so that my constituent can carry on with their study , and other will not face the same situation in future ? the hon . Gentleman be able to feed into the consultation and I encourage he and his constituent , as appropriate , to do so . I can not comment on the individual case that he raise , but if he would like to get in touch with I and my private office , I would be very happy to look at the circumstance that he have raise . I think all of we in this place would welcome an improvement to the work capability assessment . like many other here , I have have a number of constituent who currently receive PIP payment come through my door . they have contact the DWP to advise official that their situation have significantly deteriorate . they now face lengthy delay of several month before their payment be take over by Social Security Scotland and their change in circumstance be consider . can the Minister assure we that , in the work be undertake and in the consultation , there will be discussion between the DWP and the Scottish Government to make sure that payment recipient in Scotland be not put at a significant disadvantage , and that the upheaval that they be currently undergo be take into account ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . just to clarify , there be no plan on the part of the Government to make any change to the way in which PIP operate — and she do refer specifically to PIP . on the broad point , which be an important point about the interaction between my Department and the Scottish Government , I assure she that I have write today to my scottish counterpart to open my door to whatever discussion they wish to have . the Minister for disabled People will also be have his regular engagement with the Scottish Government next week . I be almost tempt to say another week , another consultation . disabled charity come to I regularly with real doubt and worry about the way disabled people be be treat . I visit Project Search in my constituency last week . it be wonderful and inspiring — they practically have to throw I out the door . it be a programme that take in young people , often from college , with severe disability and learn issue and get they into work and then continue to support they . the support that be offer once people get into work be crucial to the success of any programme the Government undertake , and how they treat these people be vital . what be the Government go to change ? how be they go to change these work capability assessment to benefit the recipient , and how will they treat the people that they force into they ? I believe that my hon . friend the Minister for disabled People will be meet the hon . Lady very shortly . that be in the diary , so those matter can be discuss in great detail then . specifically , she ask what support we will be provide . it will be exactly the kind of support to which she have just allude . there will be universal support to help train and place individual in work , and it will stay with those individual for up to 12 month to make sure that they get the support to hold down that job . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . Illegal Migration Update with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement about illegal migration . tackle illegal migration be one of the Government ' s central priority because it be the british public ' s priority . People can see that illegal migration be one of the great injustice of our time . it harm community in the UK , it deny the most vulnerable refugee a chance of resettlement , and it leave behind a trail of human misery . indeed , the perilous nature of the small boat crossing be underscore once again last month when six fatality occur in a tragic incident off the french coast . my thought be with all those affect , and I pay tribute to the first responder in both the UK and France who work in difficult circumstance to save as many life as possible . that remind we all why we need to do whatever it take to stop the boat , which be exactly what the Government have be do throughout the summer . we start by redouble our effort to smash the criminal gang upstream , well before those gang be in strike distance of the United Kingdom . we have agree a new partnership with Turkey to target the supply chain of small boat , which establish the UK as Turkey ' s partner of choice in tackle the share challenge of illegal migration . two week ago I visit my counterpart in Egypt , as the Security Minister visit Iraq , to deepen our law enforcement co - operation with two more strategically important country in that regard . in the UK , we have be ratchet up our activity to break the business model of the gang . unscrupulous employer and landlord who offer illegal migrant the ability to live and work in the UK be an integral part of the business model of the evil people - smuggle gang . we be clamp down on they ; we announce over the summer the big overhaul of our civil penalty regime in a decade , treble illegal working fine and initiate a tenfold increase in right to rent fine for repeat offender . as we do so , more rogue employer and landlord be get knock on the door . illegal working visit in the first half of this year increase by more than 50 % compare with the same period last year . so far in 2023 we have more than treble the number of right to rent civil penalty issue compare with last year , result in a sixfold increase in the number of penalty levy . follow the resumption of the immigration banking measure in April , bank and building society be now close the account of more than 6 , 000 illegal migrant . as we surge our enforcement activity , we be drive up the return of those with no right to remain in the United Kingdom . last month we announce the professional enablers taskforce , which will increase enforcement action against lawyer and legal representative who help migrant to abuse the immigration system . lawyer find to be coach migrant on how to remain in the country by fraudulent mean will face a sentence of up to life imprisonment . since our deal with Albania in December last year , we have return more than 3 , 500 immigration offender , on weekly flight . as we have do so , we have see a more than 90 % reduction in the number of Albanians arrive illegally . so far there have be more than 12 , 600 return this year , with return in the first half of this year 75 % high than in the same period last year . of course , those change follow the landmark Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which , couple with our partnership with Rwanda , will deliver the truly decisive change necessary to take away all the incentive for people to make illegal crossing from the safety of France . as we adopt a zero - tolerance approach to illegal migration , the Government have extend a generous offer to those most in need of settlement . the late statistic publish over the summer show that , between 2015 and June 2023 , 533 , 000 people be offer a safe and legal route into the United Kingdom . last month the Home Office resettle the thousandth refugee through the community sponsorship scheme . while this government ' s focus be on tackle the source of the problem , we have none the less work to manage the symptom of illegal migration as well as be practicable . we have make significant improvement at Manston since last year , and it continue to operate as an effective site for security , health and initial asylum check , despite the pressure of the summer month . we have work to ensure that when migrant depart Manston they be now head to cheap and more appropriate accommodation , by roll out room share and deliver our large accommodation site . those site be undoubtedly in the national interest , but the Government continue to listen to the concern of local community and member of this House , and throughout the summer further engagement have take place to ensure that those site be deliver in the most orderly way possible . we have successfully end the use of afghan bridging hotel , with afghan family now able to move on with the next stage of their life in settle accommodation , and the hotel be now return to use by the public . reduce the backlog in asylum case and establish a more efficient and robust decision - make system be not in and of itself a strategy to stop illegal migration , but it be important for taxpayer value and we have prioritise it . we have transform the productivity of asylum decision making by streamline process , create focused interview and instill true accountability for performance . as of 1 September , we have meet our commitment to have 2 , 500 decision maker , an increase of 174 % from the same point last year . as a result , I be pleased to report to the House that we be on track to clear the legacy backlog by the end of the year , and that recently publish provisional figure for July show that the overall backlog fall . tackle illegal migration be not easy ; more people be on the move , and more be mobile , than ever before . country around the world be struggle to control it . but our 10 - point plan be one of the most comprehensive strategy to tackle this problem in Europe , and that be show . as of today , arrival be down by 20 % compare with last year , and for the month of August the reduction be more than a third . that be against the reasonable bad - case scenario of 85 , 000 arrival that we be present with when take office last year . in contrast , irregular migration into the EU have significantly increase , with Italy alone see a doubling in small boat arrival . in Italy , a 100 % increase ; in the UK , a 20 % decrease . our plan be work . there be of course much more to do , but it be clear that we be make progress . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , thin though it be , and I echo his sentiment in send condolence to the family of those six people who die tragically in the accident in the channel early this summer . we simply must stop these dangerous crossing . I be absolutely bewildered that , after the summer we have have , yesterday the Prime Minister claim victory in his broken pledge to stop the boat . this Saturday we see the year ' s record number of channel crossing , with more than 870 people make that dangerous journey in a single day , and the total number have now soar to a whopping 21 , 000 for the year . the only reason the number be not break last year ' s record be the poor weather in July and August — and a strategy that depend on the weather be probably not a very sustainable strategy at all . what have that leave we with ? a Government flail around , chase headline with gimmick and stunt rather than do the hard graft of actually stop the boat , clear the backlog and get people out of the hotel . take their much celebrated small boat week last month , which turn out to be an absolute omnishamble , with taxpayer pay the price . no wonder the Home Secretary do not want to do a single interview , and no wonder she be not in the Chamber today . do not take my word for it : that well - know pro - labour publication the Daily Mail do a day - by - day review . on the Monday , just 39 migrant be bring into the 500 - capacity Bibby Stockholm barge . on the Tuesday , the conservative deputy chairman admit that his party have " fail " on immigration . on the Wednesday , the Immigration Minister spark fresh Tory infighting over whether Britain should leave the european convention on human right . on the Thursday , channel crossing hit their high daily number for the year . then , to cap it all , on the Friday , all the asylum seeker be remove from the Bibby Stockholm because of the presence of legionella in the water supply . you could not make it up . the Bibby Stockholm be suppose to be a symbol of the Conservatives ' cut asylum cost , but the Minister have not even mention those cost today . instead , it stand alongside the boat and the hotel as a float symbol of conservative failure and incompetence that be cost the taxpayer half a million pound a month . on top of that , new Home Office datum in August show we that the asylum seeker backlog have grow ninefold to an enormous 175 , 000 under the Conservatives at a cost of £ 4 billion a year to the taxpayer — incredibly , eight time high than it be when Labour leave office in 2010 . that waste be the cost of 13 year of conservative neglect . today , we debate the cost of the spiral asylum backlog , drive by cut the cost of asylum decision making in 2013 . yesterday , the Chancellor be promise to spend " whatever it take " to fix crumble classroom cause by the Prime Minister ' s cut to the school budget as Chancellor . tomorrow , we will no doubt be back to the economy and the financial cost of low growth and spiral mortgage . everywhere we look , we see the cost of conservative incompetence . the Minister speak now of this new deal with Turkey . well , I be glad that the Government have start to listen to Labour — we have be call for tough action to disrupt the gang upstream for well over a year — but this look pitifully weak . this announcement come with no new funding or staff , mean that officer could be take off exist function . that stand in contrast to labour ' s fully fund plan to hire hundred of specialist specifically to work on that challenge . meanwhile , turkish national have become one of the large group cross the channel this year . the Minister boast about return of fail asylum seeker go up , but they be actually down 70 % compare with when Labour leave office in 2010 . forty thousand be await removal , and , at the current rate , it will take the government more than 10 year to achieve their target . two thousand few foreign national offender be be remove per year compare with when Labour leave office in 2010 . the Minister brag about the legacy backlog — a figment of the Prime Minister ' s imagination — go down , but he know full well that the only backlog that matter be that of the 175 , 000 people , and that number be still go up . we know that the Government be cook the book in that regard , mark large number of asylum seeker as " withdraw " because they have miss a single appointment or fail to fill in a form correctly . a conservative Back - Bench MP describe that as an amnesty in all but name . the Minister have decide to make illegal working even more illegal . the problem be that there have be a lack of government enforcement . employer who be exploit and illegally employ migrant worker should face the full force of the law , but in reality , the number of penalty issue to firm have fall by two third since 2016 . there be so many question that it be difficult to know where to start , but let we start with these : when do the Minister know about legionella on Bibby Stockholm ? how much be the barge currently cost ? how many people be currently in hotel ? do he actually intend to implement the much - vaunted Illegal Migration Act 2023 ? the Prime Minister keep declare victory , but the reality be that nothing be work and everything the Government do just make everything bad , so when will they get out of the way so that we on the Labour Benches can take over , implement our plan and retake control of our broken asylum system ? that be a desperately thin response . we can deduce from it that the Labour party have absolutely no plan to tackle this issue . of course the hon . Gentleman have have a quieter summer than I , but that be because the Labour party be completely uninterested in tackle illegal migration . the hon . Gentleman talk about small boat week . well , let we see how it go for the Labour party . on Monday , the Government announce the big increase in fine for illegal working and rent for a decade , while Labour mps call for illegal migrant to have the right to work immediately , which would act as a massive magnet for even more crossing . on Tuesday , we announce our professional enablers taskforce to clamp down on lawyer who abuse the system , while Labour mp be awfully quiet , weren ' t they ? they do nothing to distance themselves from the litany of councillor and adviser expose as be implicate in effort to stop the removal of criminal and fail asylum seeker . on Wednesday , we announce a partnership with Turkey to smash the gang , while the shadow Home Secretary claim that morning that what we really need be a return to the Dublin convention — something that even the EU describe as " prehistoric " . the truth be that the Labour party have no plan to tackle this issue , and do not even want to tackle it . we on the conservative Benches be get on with the job , and we be make progress : while the rest of Europe see significant increase in migrant , we be see significant fall . our plan be the most comprehensive of any country in Europe and it be start to work . I thank the Minister for his statement . of course , he be more than aware of the various report over the summer regard the Wethersfield site in Braintree district in my area . could he explain how long the Government will be use that site ? be the five - year period that have be publicly report correct ? what planning process will be use beyond the 12 month permit under the class q regulation ? be the Government consider increase the £ 3 , 500 per bed space give to council if the site remain open for more than a year ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the co - operation that we have have in respect of that site . I know that she support the use of large site , such as disuse military basis , for that purpose — it be her policy when she be Home Secretary . we want to use that site for the short possible period . we have not put an end date on our use . we have take advantage of the emergency planning power that be available in these circumstance ; she know that that have a limited timeframe , after which further action need to be take . it be important that we provide the local community with the resource necessary to manage such site appropriately . that be why we have provide the £ 3 , 500 payment . if the site be use for a sustained period , it be correct that we should look again at that and see whether a further payment be appropriate . we have also provide funding for Essex police and for her local NHS service so that the pressure on her constituent , and those of her neighbouring mp , be as minimal as possible while we deliver this service in their area . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister come here again with another statement , but the problem be not the boat ; it be the backlog . he come here fiddle figure with legacy backlog , but the flow backlog of people come into the country continue to increase , and the hidden backlog — those grant asylum by the court but leave wait for his party to complete the paperwork — grow and grow . in reality , we have a backlog of 175 , 000 people wait for a decision from his Department — the high number since record begin — and we local mp get only boilerplate reply that give no reassurance to our constituent leave in limbo by his incompetent Department . we all want to see an end to the small boat and to people risk and lose their life in the channel , but that require safe and legal route , which do not exist . they certainly do not exist for Iraqis , Iranians , Eritreans or sudanese people . for Afghans , the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , which they should be able to access , be not fit for purpose , either . few than 50 people have be settle through pathway 3 this year , but just shy of 2 , 000 have come on small boat in the past two quarter because the system be break and the Government be not interested in fix it . have the Minister meet the Fire Brigades Union regard his expensive plague ship moor off Dorset ? have he give any thought to how his Illegal Migration Act will actually work ? many in the sector do not understand and have not have any guidance from the Minister on what will happen to the people leave in immigration limbo by his Department . finally , Scotland have seek an alternative to this broken system , and in the summer we launch our " citizenship in an independent Scotland " paper . the Government be more interested in pull up the drawbridge and court the Daily Mail , so will the Minister devolve immigration to Scotland and let we get on with the job of be a welcome country and play a role in the world ? when I last call out the hon . Lady ' s humanitarian nimbyism , the statistic be stark — in fact , they have continue to be so . the SNP Government still accommodate only 4 . 5 % of the total asylum population in the UK , while Scotland make up 8 . 1 % of the overall UK population . in scottish local authority where the SNP be the large party , include in Clackmannanshire , Dundee , East Ayrshire , East Dunbartonshire , Midlothian , North Ayrshire and Falkirk — I could go on — no asylum seeker be be accommodate . in fact , there be only 59 more asylum seeker in SNP - control council in the two month that have pass since we last debate this issue . the reason I say that be that I do not believe that member should come to this place and write cheque for which other people have to pay . the cost of SNP Members ’ fake humanitarianism be bear by everyone but themselves . if they do not want illegal migrant in their own constituency , then they should support our effort to stop the boat . rise — order . this be a very important statement , but we have the remain stage of the Energy Bill later , which be not protect time . many people wish to speak , so I urge colleague to ask one short question of the Minister on matter for which he have responsibility , as oppose to matter for which he might not , so that he be able to give quick answer . lead the way will be Sir Edward Leigh . when the Prime Minister announce that he be imperille £ 300 million - worth of level - up investment on RAF Scampton , he say he be go to lead by example by accept migrant into Catterick camp in his constituency . Home Office official have now inform we that that be not happen , so where be the leadership in that ? it get bad . I be inform by West Lindsey District Council that , despite be tell that the scheme be value for money and will have to be available for three year not two , the value for money be infinitesimal compare with hotel — it will not even save money for a few day on hotel . will the Minister now drop this ridiculous scheme , which be derisory and will do nothing for deterrence , and sit down with I and West Lindsey District Council to work out a discreet location for illegal migrant in West Lindsey ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his question and our continued co - operation . we believe that this policy be in the national interest . it be right that those come to this country be accommodate in decent but never luxurious accommodation , so that we do not create a pull factor to the UK . it be through deliver site such as Scampton — which I appreciate have a serious impact on his constituent — that later this year I hope we will begin to close hotel in earnest and return those facility to the general public for tourism , business and leisure , which I know be support by member across the House . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . on behalf of the Home Affairs Committee , may I send our thought and prayer to all those affect by the loss of life in the channel last month ? the Home Affairs Committee have long urge the Government to clear the asylum backlog , and I be pleased that the legacy backlog be start to shrink . however , there be important question about the quality and quantity of decision . on quality , it be report in the Sunday Times last week that interview have be slash from seven hour to 45 minute . could the Minister explain how the Home Office be evaluate and guarantee the quality of those decision ? on quantity , the Home Office have reportedly double the rate of decision making on the legacy backlog since the end of June . what resource and support will be offer to local authority when they start have to deal with the dramatic increase in the number of positive asylum claim decision ? on the first of those two important question , the right hon . Lady be right to say that the work we have do to transform the decision - make process be bear fruit . there will be an increase in the number of decision — a very sharp one — in the week ahead . that will mean some more people be grant but also some more people be refuse who then need to be remove swiftly from the country . in respect of those people be grant , I be work with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to provide the support and guidance to local authority that they will need . however , those people who have be grant — particularly young adult male — need to get on with their life , get a job and contribute to british society , which be what I think they want to do . we have achieve this transformation through well management , performance target , work overtime and have short , more focused interview . I do not believe that we need to have a seven - hour interview to identify the salient point and decide a case , and that have be bear out by the good work we have do in recent month . I think member will see , as data be publish in the week and month ahead , an absolute transformation in the service . the Minister be absolutely right to be do everything to tackle the small boat issue and illegal migration . over the summer month , nearly 500 asylum seeker have arrive in destination in Chelmsford , and I be grateful for the time he have spend speak to I about it . local people be really worried about extra pressure on local health service , local housing list and other local service . will he work with I to ensure that area that take large number of asylum seeker get financial support , so that this cost be share fairly across the whole country ? yes , I would be happy to continue to work with my right hon . friend , as we have do in recent month . we have provide £ 3 , 500 per bed space to local authority that house dispersal accommodation , which go to meet the cost to they of look after these individual , but she be right to say that the wide cost of housing asylum seeker be very high — there be no escape that . that be one of the reason we need to reduce the number of people come into the country in the first place . over the past few year , the Government have allow the backlog of asylum claim to rise and rise to over 170 , 000 . for all the Minister ' s warm word , progress in tackle it have be disgracefully slow . what additional measure will the Minister now implement to get that backlog down and reduce the need for his Department to scrabble around for additional accommodation , which often prove to be unsuitable and impractical , such as the Stradey Park Hotel in my constituency ? I hope I have already describe in previous answer the work that we have do . I can assure the hon . Lady that it be bear fruit and that the backlog of legacy decision will be clear by the end of the year , and we will swiftly move thereafter to other decision . order and efficiency have be restore to the asylum decision - make process , but just wave more people in and process their claim fast be not a strategy to stop the boat in and of itself . that be why we need the full deterrent and the comprehensive plan that we have . one of the issue that be put pressure on asylum accommodation be the very poor performance in Labour - run Wales , which have take only 2 . 9 % of the total asylum population , yet Wales account for 5 . 2 % of the UK ' s population . in some area of Wales — such as the constituency of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) — there be no asylum seeker whatsoever . I would strongly encourage the hon . Lady to speak with the Welsh Government and get they to step up and help we provide more accommodation . I very much agree with what my right hon . Friend say about the importance of effective processing , but he be right about the underlie importance of have a clear plan to deter people from come to this country illegally , which lead we to Rwanda and the upcoming Supreme Court judgment anticipate later this year . do he recognise the very strong sentiment among many of we in the House — and , indeed , among many of my constituent — that if the Supreme Court rule against the Government ' s policy on this vital question , we should withdraw from the european convention on human right ? Parliament ' s support for our Rwanda plan be make clear with the passage of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . that be a statutory scheme to underpin the Rwanda partnership , so the will of Parliament to get on and deliver the policy be clear for all to see . I be confident that we will secure the result that we seek in the Supreme Court when it hear the case in October , and that be the Government ' s focus right now , but like my right hon . friend I do not think we should take anything off the table . if we be truly committed to stop the boat , we will have to consider all option , include with regard to the european convention on human right . if the Government ' s attention be so strongly focus on crossing in the channel , can the Minister explain to I why one of the four Border Force cutter spend so much time this summer tie up at a pier in Orkney ? we have a history of people come in small boat to Orkney , but the Vikings have be quiet for quite a while now . be that not a curious use of that scarce resource ? I be happy to look into that issue , and I be delighted to see the right hon . Gentleman ' s Damascene conversion to stop the boat . I can assure he that the UK have a very robust and efficient operation in the channel . we have be commend by international organisation — include when I speak to the director general of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees — for the work that we do to save life at sea in the channel . I commend the Border Force officer who be part of that . at the end of the day , though , we have to put in place a deterrent if we want to stop people cross the channel , and that be why we need policy such as Rwanda , which the right hon . Gentleman and his party have vigorously oppose . I echo the comment of the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , about the tragedy in the channel . it be a miracle that more life have not be lose . the Minister have commit to subsidise the french police force to the tune of £ 480 million , and yet , as at the end of August , the number of successful interception on french beach be 45 . 2 % , which be down from 45 . 8 % in the previous corresponding period . over the same time , the Belgians have manage to increase the number of successful interception by 90 % . will the Minister have a word with his french counterpart to suggest that they have a word with their belgian counterpart , to see what they be do differently ? be we pay the wrong country ? first , I would say that the number of small boat arrival come to the UK have fall by 20 % . that be a very significant achievement , bear in mind the context of a 100 % increase in Italy and correspond amount in other border state of the European Union . however , my hon . friend be right to say that , despite elevate relation with France to their high level for many year and do a great deal of work , there be clearly more that we need the French to do for we . he be particularly right to focus on Belgium : I visit there recently and meet with the belgian Interior Minister , and the approach that that country have take have be extremely helpful . it have work very closely with the National Crime Agency , Border Force and police in the UK , and have be willing to intercept in the water small boat leave its shore . that have prove decisive : small boat from belgian water be now extremely rare , so that be an approach that we encourage the French to follow . the Minister will be aware that the case in my constituency be be process . from what I have see , the vast majority be be give leave to remain . the Minister advise I that those people would then be give 28 day ' notice to leave the hotel but , last week , I send he example of case where they have be give five , seven or nine day ' notice . that be create a homelessness problem in my constituency , because the time be not available to set up the arrangement to house they . the local christian centre worker have be house they in their own home as well , which be wonderful , but we can not go on like this . I be to meet the Minister next week , but that meeting have be postpone . I would be very happy to meet with his official , Hillingdon Council and the local Christian centre to talk through how we can resolve this problem , but it be a matter of urgency . I be not aware that our meeting have be postpone — I will look into that immediately after the statement . in one sense , the issue that the right hon . Gentleman have bring to the House be a sign of progress : it mean that the work we have do to clear the backlog and create an efficient service be now bear fruit , and more decision be be grant . in fact , in the last week in August , over 2 , 000 decision be grant in a single week , which be the high for several year . that will mean that there will be increase pressure on some local authority , such as the right hon . Gentleman ' s , which house a very large number of asylum seeker . particularly with respect to family , local authority will have duty and responsibility that will be challenge for they . I be very keen to work with he and other member across the House who be affect by that . I greatly commend the Minister for the progress he have make with respect to procedure and to the disreputable lawyer who have be exploit the system , and for the procedure that he have announce today , but could I say something on the question of the Supreme Court ? the Supreme Court be go to make a judgment . could it possibly be encourage to go more quickly ? it really be important : the perception in the country be that nothing be be do , which be not true . the Government have behave extremely well in relation to the Act of Parliament that have just be pass . on the question of the echr , it be not necessary to abolish the entire convention in these circumstance regard the issue of illegal immigration . if the Supreme Court case be to go the wrong way , we can tailor legislation : we can use the " notwithstanding " formula and tailor it to the specific requirement that be need , which would be limit but extremely effective . will the Minister please bear that in mind ? I have always take and value the advice of my hon . friend in this regard . we will , of course , consider what action we need to take if there be a negative judgment from the Supreme Court , but that be not our expectation : we be go to vigorously contest that case and expect a positive outcome . the Supreme Court be go to hear the case in the middle of October and I hope that those justice will come forward with their decision expeditiously because — as my hon . friend have rightly say — the country be wait for action and the good work we have do thus far be not enough . we have to go far and , at the end of the day , that will only happen by put a decisive intervention such as the Rwanda policy in place . all this just confirm that the hostile environment be still alive and well . the Minister talk about reduce the backlog ; how be case within that backlog be prioritise ? I have a constituent who be catch up in the tragedy at the Park Inn hotel in Glasgow in 2020 — a city , incidentally , that take more of its share of asylum seeker than any other local authority area in the country . he be the roommate of one of the attacker . he be tell that he would have a decision by 25 October 2022 , so nearly a year later , what be his place in the backlog queue ? I be happy to look into the case that the hon . Gentleman raise but , as I have say in answer to numerous question , we be now make very strong progress with the backlog . we be make decision at a rate that have not be see for several year and that be escalate rapidly , but the fundamental difference of opinion between he and his party and ourselves be that we do not see clear the backlog as a strategy for stop the boat . it be an important thing that we need to do as a country , in order to operate an efficient system in the interest of british taxpayer , but it be not enough . we have to put in place a deterrent that fundamentally break the business model of the people smuggler so that people will not want to come here in the first place . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s announcement regard the Professional Enablers Taskforce , and encourage he to make sure that that taskforce look at the entirety of lawyer ’ intervention in the immigration system . I for one be sick and tired of have people come to my surgery who have spend year in the immigration system , with application after application that have no chance of ever succeed , but be make lot of money for the solicitor advise they . my hon . friend be absolutely right — I speak as a former solicitor , so I mean no harm to the profession , but the abuse that I have see in my role over the past nine month be truly shocking and have to end . I be pleased that the Solicitors Regulation Authority have take swift action against the lawyer and legal representative who be identify by the Daily Mail over the summer , but that be the tip of the iceberg . there be much more work to be do by the profession and I hope this taskforce will root out that abuse as quickly as possible . I envy the Minister ' s apparently limitless capacity for self - congratulation , but it do not bear much relationship to what people be experience on the ground . I go to visit migrant in a hotel in Chesterfield ; there be 81 people there , not a single one of whom have have their case hear . the Minister be apparently congratulate himself on the most basic improvement that any competent Home Office should have be make over the past 18 month . how do he explain the fact that , under this government , more migrant be arrive , yet 70 % few be be return than in 2010 ? I can tell the House what would happen if the Labour party be in charge of return . [ interruption . ] no , this be an important point to make . the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , during his campaign to be leader of the Labour party , campaign to close detention centre . dozen of Labour mp have campaign against immigration removal centre , and numerous Labour mp have side with dangerous foreign criminal versus the british public , oppose their removal from this country . the Labour party , include the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , oppose our reform to modern slavery legislation — reform that be essential in order to remove people from this country expeditiously . while we be get return up — as I say in my statement , they have already rise substantially — I worry what would happen under the Labour party , because it have absolutely no strategy to tackle that issue . order . I re - emphasise the importance of answer on responsibility that the Minister have . I thank my right hon . friend for the very helpful telephone call I have have during the summer concern the Bibby Stockholm barge , which be in Portland port in my constituency — something that the majority of we oppose , as he know . we do not have any migrant on board due to the legionella problem , and I understand that the Government be face various legal action , not least from the Fire Brigades Union . could he kindly update I and my constituent on the situation concern that barge , and when and if the migrant will return ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the co - operation that we have have over the summer . I appreciate his position with respect to the barge , although we believe it be important that we move away from expensive hotel to more rudimentary form of accommodation such as barge . it be very unfortunate that migrant have to be move off the barge over the summer . we deeply regret that . we do take a very precautionary approach . test have subsequently be carry out and the definitive answer to those test will be receive very shortly . assume that they show no sign of legionella , or indeed any other bacteria or cause of concern , we will move people back on to the boat as soon as possible and I think we can expect that within week . far to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , the european convention on human right be negotiate some 70 year ago , long before international criminal gang engage in traffic people across Europe and , indeed , more widely . do not my right hon . friend agree that now be the time for the Government to make an approach to the Council of Europe with a view to renegotiate the term of the european convention , because clearly it be not protect our border or those of many other country across Europe ? my right hon . friend be correct to say that the framework of international treaty , many of which be forge in the year after the second world war , now appear out of date give the challenge that we face today , and that be a sentiment share by other european country we have be work closely with . we have seek to put illegal migration and reform of the international framework on the table for all of the international fora that the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary or I be represent at , and we will seek to make the UK a lead force in reform on that issue . other country be look intently at the work we be do , particularly the Rwanda partnership and , once we be able to establish it , I think it be very likely that other country will follow suit . it be nearly a year now since the Home Office first requisition two hotel on Bostock Lane in my constituency and , despite numerous commitment from the Dispatch Box , hundred of migrant be still house at that location . I appreciate my right hon . friend ' s good intention and the hard work he have put in , but my constituent really want to know when the site will be close and when the hotel will be return to their originally intend purpose . three thing have change decisively over the summer . first , it be increasingly clear that the number come over be low than last year as a result of the plan that the Government have put in place , particularly the deal we strike with Albania that have be so successful . secondly , the backlog clearance work that we have do be bear fruit , as we have already hear today . thirdly , we have double the number of asylum seeker live in each room , whether that be in hotel or in dispersal accommodation , save the taxpayer hundred of million of pound . those three thing lead to the ability to exit hotel in the near future and we be work very closely on plan to do so . I know how strongly my hon . friend feel , so when we be able to do so , her hotel should rightly , because of some of the issue that have be experience by her community , be top of the list . my right hon . friend will be aware of an unwritten deal , but a deal base on trust , that east Kent would not be face any accommodation because of the pressure that Dover be obviously face and the pressure we have in Manston as a primary dispersal centre . so he can imagine my displeasure that a hotel in Cliftonville , the Glenwood Hotel — a small facility of just 21 room — be be readie to be set up on 20 September . I be unhappy about this because of , as I say , the deal base on trust because of the pressure that east Kent be bear . I would certainly hope my right hon . friend will intervene to make sure that this pretty insignificantly sized facility will be withdraw . order . just a quick reminder that we must have succinct question because we have a lot to get through later . I would be very happy to take a look at that , and I completely understand and appreciate the unique pressure that Kent face . in my last communication with Doncaster Council , there be 6 , 710 people on the housing waiting list and we have hotel that be full , too . so will my right hon . friend continue his great work , and make sure that we stop these illegal boat and reduce immigration to a sizeable level ? I strongly support the view of my hon . friend . he be right to say that illegal migration place immense pressure on public service , housing supply and community cohesion . that be what we on this side of the House understand and that be why we be take the action that we be to stop the boat . when will the Old Palace Lodge in Dunstable be available for the people of Dunstable again , give its particular role in provide a social community for mark life event for the whole town ? I have have numerous conversation with my hon . friend about that hotel . I hope that we will be in a position to exit hotel shortly , as a result of the work we have do to restore order to the asylum decision - make system and the reduced number of illegal migrant cross the channel . I be pleased to see the reduction by 20 % in the year to date and , of course , the work that have be happen with Albania , but resident in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke be concerned about the increase number come from Turkey and India . what assurance from the Prime Minister have my right hon . friend and the Home Secretary have about a return agreement be include in any free trade deal that we sign with India ? my hon . friend be right to point out that there have be significant number of illegal migrant from both those country . I visit Turkey early in the summer , and one of my objective be to create an enhance arrangement for return with Turkey , with which we be work very closely in that regard . for India , the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I have be meet indian counterpart regularly to increase the return of illegal migrant there . that be absolutely essential , because the number be very substantial . I very much agree with the Minister that we must increase deterrence if we be to reduce the number of people come here illegally . a key part of that be increase deportation , so what be the Minister do to ensure that we increase the number of deportation facility and increase the speed of those deportation ? we have one of the large detain estate of any major european country , and we be increase it . we be invest in two new one that will come on line next year , and we be look for further opportunity as well . that be quite right , because under the Illegal Migration Act individual who come to this country illegally will be detain and then swiftly removed . I welcome the progress in processing application . will my right hon . friend commit that the extra resource will be maintain and the focus on productivity improve to deal with the legacy event and then other case , while do the important work of stop the flow ? yes , I be very pleased that we meet our pledge to increase the number of decision maker to 2 , 500 from 1 September . that be couple with management change so that there be financial incentive and proper accountability for the civil servant involve . we be see now the fruit of that labour , with a much more productive service than we have see for many year . the one - year anniversary of the Novotel in Ipswich be take over by the Home Office be about to be meet . my right hon . friend know how strongly I feel about this . anger in Ipswich have not abate . look at that hotel — a blaze of light — and know that those people , who break our immigration rule , be get three meal a day during a cost of live squeeze have cause immense anger . will my right hon . friend outline a timescale to get the Novotel back to its proper use , which would be good for the economy . it would also be good for fairness , and a sense of fairness be vitally important . I hope that I have give my hon . friend some reassurance that we be now at a point where we can move forward with exiting hotel — we will come back to the House in due course to set out those arrangement — but he be right that this be a fundamental question of fairness . it be not appropriate for people who have break our law and come into our country illegally to be access luxurious accommodation that be way beyond the mean of million of our fellow citizen . the Royal Hotel in Kettering and the Rothwell House Hotel in Rothwell be unsuitable as asylum hotel location , not least because of their heart - of - town - centre site . the Minister already know the strength of local feeling about those two hotel . local people want they back as normal hotel . I believe they be on 12 - month contract . will he ensure that those contract be not renew when they come to an end ? my hon . friend have make very strong representation on behalf of his community , and he and I meet early in the year to discuss that far . when we be in a position to close hotel , it will be one like his — small hotel in market town that take away very important community asset — that will be top of the list . reduce the asylum backlog be important , but we absolutely must not fall into the trap of have a de facto amnesty to try to achieve that . in the past year we approve the claim of 73 % of applicant , include many from undisputed safe country , while France approve just 25 % . why be we approve nearly three time the proportion of claim approve by France , give that this be clearly one of the pull factor that draw people across the channel ? that be a very important question . we have not do an amnesty — that be what the last Labour Government do when they have a backlog of asylum decision . we have choose to do good , old - fashioned management reform to make this service more productive and deliver for the taxpayer . we have also take on this issue in respect both of country with high grant rate , such as Afghanistan , and of those with low grant rate , such as Albania , and we have rapidly get through those case . there be a number of nationality — Egypt , Turkey , India — where grant rate should be very low indeed because there be very few circumstance in which somebody should be successfully claim asylum in this country . we want to ensure that our asylum grant rate be no high than those of comparable european country . I welcome the near end to illegal albanian immigration , the crackdown on immigration lawyer abuse , and UK Visas and Immigration caseworker help mps . however , as more asylum seeker become refugee , have my right hon . friend consider create a home for refugee programme , build on the successful Homes for Ukraine scheme ? it be worth remember that those individual grant asylum be predominantly young man of work age , and I would hope that they will integrate into society , get a job and start contribute to the UK — that be certainly our intention . I do understand that there will be some pressure on local authority , and we be work through those with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . that Department be consider the possibility of a home for Afghans scheme , but that be in respect of the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme , which cover a different cohort of individual where that kind of intervention be more appropriate . although I be pleased to see the 20 % fall in channel arrival this year , I do not believe we will see a more meaningful fall until we get the Illegal Migration Act 2023 operational . I know that we be wait for the Supreme Court and I urge it to hurry up , but give that the Government lose only on a very narrow point that be specific to Rwanda , can my right hon . friend reassure the House that , should they lose in the Supreme Court , the Government have alternative plan so we can get removal go as soon as possible ? of course , we consider all eventuality , but my hon . friend be right to make the point that we win in the High Court and the Court of Appeal on the fundamental question : can a country such as ours enter into a partnership with another whereby asylum claim be hear there ? despite the many individual who offer contrary opinion , that be deem to be legal and in compliance with our obligation under the refugee convention . that be a huge step forward . there be a narrow point to resolve and we hope we will be successful in that regard in the Supreme Court in October , but my hon . friend know of our determination to tackle this issue one way or another . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know that raise this take up time in itself , but I be concerned that we now have just about three hour , include for the ten - minute rule motion , for the final stage of a Bill that run to 328 page , plus 145 page of amendment , which include 68 new clause and at least 240 amendment . this House have not be overrun with business lately — we have many day before the recess when we be go home early — and it seem to I that it be not respectful to this House to try to shoehorn such a large piece of legislation into such a short period of time . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give notice of it . I know that he , as a former Leader of the House , will be very aware of the procedure for organise business in the House . he also know that it be not a matter for I . I would remind he that I say on three occasion during the previous statement that there be a lot of business to get through , that it do not have protect time , and that therefore short question and answer be require . I have try my good to reflect the fact that there be pressure on business , because he be quite right that many colleague want to contribute to the next debate . the Leader of the House be present and may wish to respond , so I will allow she to do so . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like to place on the record that we be always keen to ensure that this House have time to debate matter . contrary to what some might be say , this be not a zombie Parliament and we be put through a lot of legislation as well as private Bills . I also remind the House that the programme motion for the Energy Bill be agree on 9 May . I be about to say that the programme motion be agree to by the House . I thank the Leader of the House for her response , and I be sure the right hon . Gentleman , a previous Leader of the House , will remember that sometimes it be not possible to please everybody . Electronic Cigarettes ( Branding , Promotion and Advertising ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the branding , promotion and advertising of electronic cigarette , for the purpose of prevent electronic cigarette from be market in a way which appeal to child ; and for connected purpose . we be see a rapid and very concern increase in underage vaping . a recent study by action on Smoking and Health find that in the past three year the number of child take part in experimental vaping have increase by 50 % . one in five 11 to 15 - year - old in England use vape in 2021 , a figure that be likely to be significantly high now . alongside this have come significant growth in the awareness of e - cigarette promotion , with 85 % of child now conscious of e - cigarette marketing either in shop or online . we can see how this have happen . in every single one of the constituency we represent , on high street and in town centre up and down the country , there be vape shop where the shelf and window display be fill with brightly coloured packaging and product . the packaging mimic popular brand , with flavour of sweet like gummy bear , Skittles and tutti - frutti , or soft drink like cherry cola , or emblazon with image of cartoon character . the problem be just as widespread online , with vape be openly promote to child on social medium site , draw they into experimental vaping so that they become addicted to nicotine . the marketing strategy be clear to see : the product be design to be attractive to child , to draw they in when they be very young so that they will become addicted to vape and then become long - term customer . vaping have shift from a smoking cessation tool to a recreational activity in its own right . it be drive by the rapacious desire of tobacco company — which fund many of the large e - cigarette supplier — to keep make a profit from the highly addictive substance of nicotine . there be evidence that the approach be work for the company profit from vape , with new datum from the Office for National Statistics this week show that the increase in child and young people vaping be already feed through into a dramatic increase in young adult vape , with a particularly sharp increase in the number of young woman use vape . the important role of vaping in smoking cessation have lead to a widespread perception that it be a harmless activity , rather than a less harmful activity than smoking . it be not harmless . last year , 40 child be admit to hospital for suspect vaping - relate disorder . young people use e - cigarette be twice as likely to suffer from a chronic cough than non - user . there be report that nicotine dependency contribute to cognitive and attention deficit condition and worsens mood disorder . concern about vaping be be widely raise by teacher and parent in a way that be not the case just a couple of year ago . school be instal heat sensor in addition to smoke detector in school toilet , take step to stop child constantly leave the classroom to vape , and manage the impact of addiction to nicotine on the mood and concentration level of their student . the sale of e - cigarette to under - 18 be already illegal , but the dramatic increase in the number of young people vape show that the current legislation be completely ineffective , so we must learn from the substantive evidence on what work in reduce smoking rate among child . in 1982 , when smoke rate among child first start be monitor in England , one in five child be current smoker — the same as the proportion of 11 to 15 - year - old now vape . eighteen year later , despite substantial advertising campaign to educate young people on the danger of smoking , the proportion be exactly the same . that be not because child be not educate about the danger , but because some adolescent be more susceptible to take risk . between 2000 and 2021 , smoke rate among child fall from 19 % to just 3 % — not because of well education or enforcement of the exist prohibition on the sale of cigarette to child , but because the regulatory framework during that time ratchet up year by year . under the last Labour Government , all point - of - sale advertising and display of tobacco be prohibit . a comprehensive anti - smuggling strategy be implement by HMRC and UK Border Force , which reduce sale of illicit tobacco , and cigarette be put in standardised packaging with all the brightly coloured glamourise imagery remove . what be true for the strategy to tackle smoking be true for the challenge of vaping . without much tough regulation , we will not succeed in drive down vaping among child and young people . regulation on packaging , advertising and labelling be essential . it be disappointing that the Government refuse to support the amendment to the Health and Care Bill table by my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) in November 2021 , which would have prohibit brand that appeal to child on packaging . the cross - party Health and Social Care Committee write to the Secretary of State in July state : " decisive action be need from both Government and industry to protect child from the harmful effect of vaping . " an Opposition day debate in July also serve to demonstrate the high level of cross - party consensus on this issue , yet the Government have still not announce any action to address it . a series of important and complex issue relate to e - cigarette , in addition to their impact on child , also require Government attention . they include the harmful impact of disposable vape as a source of plastic pollution and the fire hazard cause by the presence of battery within the vape casing . there be also the alarming rise in the number of 18 to 25 - year - old who have never be smoker use e - cigarette as a recreational activity in their own right . that also require urgent attention . I hope the Government will come forward with a wide strategy to address these issue and that we will be able to scrutinise they in this House , but there can be no disagreement that urgent action be need right now to stop the sale of vape to child and to halt the number of child who be become addict to nicotine . no one want to undermine the vital role of e - cigarette in smoking cessation — smoking remain far more harmful than vape and a major threat to health — but brightly colour branding , advertising , name and imagery specifically design to make vaping product attractive to child be not remotely necessary for vape to be readily available to those who can benefit from vaping as a smoking cessation tool . my Bill be design to deliver rapid action on an issue on which there be broad consensus and that be present itself with increase urgency in family , school and community right across the country . my Bill would ban e - cigarette from be advertise , brand and package to appeal directly to child , include online . we know this will work , because the same approach be so effective in reduce smoking in child . we can act now to stop the harm of nicotine addiction to the physical and mental health of child and young people . I hope that the Government will choose to support this Bill and take the action need to protect child ' s health . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Helen Hayes , Andrew Gwynne , Rachael Maskell , Alex Cunningham , Mary Kelly Foy , Mrs Paulette Hamilton , Kirsten Oswald , Maggie Throup , Caroline Nokes , Dr Caroline Johnson , Daisy Cooper and Peter Gibson present the Bill . Helen Hayes accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 358 ) . the Speaker ' s Absence Ordered , that the Speaker have leave of absence on Thursday 7 September to attend the G7 Speakers ' Conference . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Energy Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee I will call the Minister in a second to move the new clause , but I take this opportunity to remind colleague that many member have put down to speak in this debate , and it will last until 7 o ' clock , include Third Reading . there be quite a lot of pressure , and I hope colleague will bear that in mind when put together their speech . New Clause 52 - revenue certainty scheme for sustainable aviation fuel producer : consultation and report " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must carry out a public consultation on the option for design and implement a sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty scheme . ( 2 ) a " sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty scheme " be a scheme whose purpose be to give producer of sustainable aviation fuel great certainty than they otherwise would have about the revenue that they will earn from sustainable aviation fuel that they produce . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must open the consultation within the period of 6 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must bring the consultation to the attention of , in particular , such of each of the following as the Secretary of State consider appropriate — ( a ) producer of sustainable aviation fuel ; ( b ) supplier of sustainable aviation fuel ; ( c ) airline . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , within the period of 18 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , lie before Parliament a report on progress make towards the development of a sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty scheme . ( 6 ) in this section , " sustainable aviation fuel " mean aviation turbine fuel whose use ( as compare with the use of other aviation turbine fuel ) will , in the opinion of the Secretary of State , contribute to a reduction in emission of greenhouse gas ; and for this purpose — " aviation turbine fuel " have the meaning give by article 3 ( 1b ) of the Renewable Transport Fuel Obligations Order 2007 ( s . I . 2007 / 3072 ) ; " greenhouse gas " have the meaning give by section 92 ( 1 ) of the Climate Change Act 2008 . " — ( Andrew Bowie . ) this new clause , intend to be insert after clause 156 , require the government to consult on option for set up a revenue certainty scheme for sustainable aviation fuel producer , and to publish a report about progress towards develop such a scheme . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 63 — renewable liquid heating fuel obligation . government new clause 64 — regulation under section 92 ( 1 ) : procedure with devolved authority . government new clause 65 — Regulations make by Secretary of State : consultation with devolved authority . government new clause 66 — regulation under section 292 and 293 : procedure with devolved authority . new clause 1 — community benefit relate to onshore wind farm — " ( 1 ) within six month of the date on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a report set out proposal for ensure that local community benefit from onshore wind farm . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must set out , but be not limit to , proposal for — ( a ) 5 % of the gross revenue of new wind farm , solar , hydro and other renewable development generate over 1mw to be pay into community benefit fund ; ( b ) widen the distance of community around new renewable development which receive share of community benefit fund , with the aim of limit the wealth disparity amongst rural community ; and ( c ) ensure that community surround wind farm have a statutory right to benefit from local renewable energy development . " new clause 2 — prohibition of new coal mine — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation prohibit the opening of new coal mine and the licensing of new coal mine by the Coal Authority or its successor . ( 2 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 3 — prohibition of energy production from coal — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for the UK to cease energy production from coal from 1 January 2025 . ( 2 ) regulation under this section may amend primary legislation ( include this Act ) . " new clause 4 — flaring and venting — " ( 1 ) the Energy Act 1976 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 12 , after subsection ( 5 ) , insert — " ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may not grant consent under this section after 1 January 2025 ; and any consent grant under this section cease to have effect from 1 January 2025 . ( 7 ) paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) of this section cease to have effect from 1 January 2025 . " ( 3 ) in section 12a , after subsection ( 5 ) , insert — " ( 6 ) the OGA may not grant consent under this section after 1 January 2025 ; and any consent grant under this section cease to have effect from 1 January 2025 . " " this new clause be intend to ban flaring and venting of natural gas after 1 January 2025 . new clause 5 — date of cessation of issue of oil and gas exploration and production licence — " ( 1 ) within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must establish an independent body to advise on the date after which no new licence for oil and gas exploration and production should be issue . ( 2 ) the body must make its recommendation to the Secretary of State not later than three month after the day on which it be establish . ( 3 ) not less than three month after the date on which the Secretary of State receive the body ' s recommendation , the Secretary of State must present to Parliament legislative proposal to give effect to the recommendation . " new clause 6 — net zero power supply — " ( 1 ) it be the duty of the Secretary of State to ensure that the aggregate amount of net emission of carbon dioxide and net emission of each of the other target greenhouse gas associate with the supply of power in the UK in 2035 be zero . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for the mean of calculation of net emission of carbon dioxide and of each of the other target greenhouse gas for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) the mean of calculation provide for in regulation under subsection ( 2 ) must be consistent with the mean of calculation of the net UK carbon account for the purpose of section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section a " target greenhouse gas " have the same meaning as give in section 24 of the Climate Change Act 2008 . " this new clause be intend to provide for the UK ' s power supply to be net zero by 2035 . new clause 7 — Energy Charter Treaty — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must initiate procedure for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty . " new clause 8 — community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation require licensed energy supplier with more than 150 , 000 customer ( " eligible licensed supplier " ) to purchase electricity export from site include those operate by community group , that generate low carbon electricity with a capacity below 5mw . ( 2 ) Fossil fuel local power plant with a capacity of less than 5mw be not eligible for participation in the Community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme , with the exception of a local combine heat and power plant that generate electricity ancillary to its purpose of provide heat for local heat network . ( 3 ) " fossil fuel " have the meaning give in section 104 ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) licensed energy supplier with few than 150 , 000 customer may also purchase electricity export from the site define above provide that they do so on the term set out by the regulation . ( 5 ) the regulation must require that eligible licensed supplier — ( a ) offer to those site a minimum export price set annually by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority ( " GEMA " ) , ( b ) offer to those site a minimum contract period of five year , and ( c ) allow the export site to end the contract after no more than one year . ( 6 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , GEMA must — ( a ) set an annual minimum export price for those site that have regard to current wholesale energy price and inflation in energy price and the wide economy , ( b ) introduce a registration system for export site meet the requirement set out in subsection ( 1 ) and want to access these export purchase , ( c ) define specification for the smart export meter require by such site , ( d ) define " low carbon electricity " in such a way that it include renewable generation technology and may include other technology with extremely low carbon dioxide emission , ( e ) define requirement for an export site generate low carbon electricity with a capacity of less than 5mw to be register as a Community or small - scale Energy site , and maintain a register of such site . ( 7 ) to access the export purchase agreement define in this section exporter must — ( a ) register their site with GEMA , ( b ) install a smart export meter that meet specification define by GEMA , and ( c ) notify GEMA if their ownership structure meet the definition of a Community or small - scale Energy site . ( 8 ) all license supplier provide such purchase agreement must report annually to GEMA — ( a ) the number and capacity of Community or small - scale Energy site that have be offer contract to purchase electricity and the number of these that agree those contract , ( b ) the total amount of electricity purchase under these agreement , and ( c ) the price pay for that electricity . ( 9 ) OFGEM must make and publish a report annually on the operation of the export purchase agreement , set out — ( a ) the number of Community or small - scale Energy site contract with licensed energy supplier under this section and the total amount of electricity purchase , ( b ) the licensed supplier contract with Community or small - scale Energy site and the amount of electricity each have purchase , ( c ) an assessment of how the mechanism be perform and the contribution it be make to deliver secure and low carbon electricity supply , and ( d ) recommendation on how the mechanism could be improve . ( 10 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 9 — community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Services Scheme — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation require licensed energy supplier with more than 150 , 000 customer ( " eligible licensed supplier " ) to offer a Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement to any register Community or small - scale Energy site under section ( community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme ) for the purpose of allow that site to sell electricity to local consumer . ( 2 ) the Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement will require licensed supplier to make a community or small - scale energy tariff available to consumer local to the export site that have regard to the export price pay or that would be pay to that site under section ( community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme ) . ( 3 ) the eligible licensed supplier may limit the total number of consumer the community or small - scale energy tariff be available to such that the total annual energy sell under the tariff be broadly equivalent to the total annual energy generate by the site . ( 4 ) the eligible licensed supplier will be the registrant for the meter of any local consumer purchasing energy under the community or small - scale energy tariff . ( 5 ) the eligible licensed supplier may charge a reasonable fee for the provision of service under this section provide that it have regard to distribution , licensing and regulatory cost and any guidance provide by GEMA . ( 6 ) the eligible licensed supplier must return any money raise through the sale of energy under a tariff set up under this section to the Community or small - scale Energy site , save for the fee allow under subsection ( 5 ) . ( 7 ) eligible licensed supplier must report annually to gema on — ( a ) the number and capacity of community energy group or small - scale site offer Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement and the number who have contract to use they , ( b ) the total amount of electricity purchase under these agreement , and ( c ) the tariff for each agreement . ( 8 ) gema must — ( a ) produce guidance on the level of community or small - scale energy tariff and on the reasonable charge that eligible supplier may charge for Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service Agreements , ( b ) make and publish a report annually on the operation of the export purchase agreement , set out — ( i ) the number of community energy project or small - scale site contract with licensed energy supplier under this section and the total amount of electricity purchase , ( ii ) the license supplier contract with community energy group or small - scale site and the amount of electricity each have purchase , ( iii ) an assessment of how the mechanism be perform and the contribution it be make to deliver secure and low carbon electricity supply , and ( iv ) recommendation for how Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement could be improve . ( 9 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 11 — enhance reward for solar panel — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a report on enhance the reward under the Smart Export Guarantee for customer who install solar panel . " this new clause seek to enhance the reward under the Smart Export Guarantee for energy customer who install solar panel . new clause 12 — prohibition on flare and venting and enhance measure to reduce fugitive methane emission — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation — ( a ) prohibit the practice of flare and venting by oil and gas installation other than in an emergency within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom , ( b ) require monthly leak detection and repair inspection to reduce fugitive methane emission , ( c ) require a measurement , reporting and verification process to quantify methane emission , and ( d ) require the upgrade of all equipment to alternative zero - or low - emission and low - maintenance equipment , such as electric , mechanical , or compress air equipment . ( 2 ) in this section — " flare " mean the burning of methane gas and other hydrocarbon produce during oil and gas extraction ; " venting " mean the release of methane gas and other hydrocarbon directly into the atmosphere , without combustion . ( 3 ) regulation under this section must be make so as to come into force by 31 December 2025 . " this new clause would prohibit " flaring " and " venting " . new clause 13 — introduction of a social tariff for vulnerable energy customer — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a plan to bring forward a social tariff for vulnerable energy customer . ( 2 ) the plan under subsection ( 1 ) must set out way in which the social tariff for energy would satisfy the following condition — ( a ) it be additional to the Warm Home Discount and Default tariff price Cap , ( b ) it be mandatory for all license electricity and gas supplier , ( c ) it be target at household that be in or at risk of fuel poverty , ( d ) it be set at a level that be below the market price , and ( e ) it automatically enrol eligible household onto the tariff . " this new clause will require the Secretary of State to bring forward a plan to introduce a social tariff for energy . new clause 14 — smart meter roll - out for prepayment customer — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that all legacy prepayment meter be replace with smart meter before the end of 2025 . ( 2 ) within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare a plan to end self - disconnection by the end of 2026 . ( 3 ) such a plan may include but be not limit to — ( a ) the introduction of a social tariff for prepayment customer , ( b ) the introduction of mechanism to apply credit automatically if a prepayment customer run out of credit , ( c ) the introduction of a mechanism to transfer a prepayment customer to credit mode automatically if they run out of credit . " this new clause place duty on the Secretary of State to ensure prepayment meter customer be prioritise in the smart meter rollout , and to create a plan to stop self - disconnection before the end of 2026 . new clause 15 — restriction of the use of prepayment meter — " ( 1 ) within 90 day of the day on which this Act be pass the Secretary of State must make regulation prohibit energy supplier from authorise or undertake the installation of new prepayment meter for domestic energy use unless the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition be that the energy supplier have receive an explicit request from the consumer for the installation of a prepayment meter . ( 3 ) in this section " installation of new prepayment meter " include switch exist energy meter to a prepayment mode . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may make subsequent regulation that amend or repeal regulation make under this section . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to prohibit the installation of new prepayment meter unless consumer explicitly request they . new clause 16 — National Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of the period of 6 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , publish an action plan entitle the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , to set out proposal for delivery of — ( a ) a low - carbon heat target , of 100 % of installation of relevant heating appliance and connection to relevant heat network by 2035 , ( b ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band c by 2035 in all UK home where practical , cost effective and affordable , and ( c ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band b by 2028 in all non - domestic property , and ( d ) the Future Homes Standard for all new build in England by 2025 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , in develop the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , consult the Climate Change Committee and its sub - committee on adaptation . " this new clause impose a duty on the Secretary of State to bring forward a plan with time - bind proposal for low carbon heat , energy efficient home and non - domestic property and high standard on new home . new clause 17 — plan for vulnerable consumer — " ( 1 ) within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a plan address the need of vulnerable consumer and consumer from low - income household in relation to the cost of energy . ( 2 ) the plan under subsection ( 1 ) may include , but be not limit to — ( a ) the extension of the energy price cap on heating oil , ( b ) the extension of the warm home discount , ( c ) the increase of winter fuel payment , ( d ) prevent electricity supplier from recover the cost of pay a revenue collection counterparty under the Nuclear Energy ( Financing ) Act 2022 from customer claim Universal Credit or other legacy benefit , ( e ) requirement for energy supplier to offer social energy tariff to household experience fuel poverty , and ( f ) any other measure the Secretary of State believe be appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to develop a plan to protect vulnerable customer from the rise cost of energy . new clause 18 — energy performance regulation relate to exist premise — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must make regulation — ( a ) to amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 962 ) to require that , subject to subsection ( 2 ) , all tenancy have an Energy performance Certificate ( EPC ) of at least Band C by 31 December 2028 ; and ( b ) to amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2019 ( S . I . 2019 / 595 ) to raise the cost cap to £ 10 , 000 . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for exemption to apply where — ( a ) the occupier of any premise whose permission be need to carry out work refuse to give such permission ; ( b ) it be not technically feasible to improve the energy performance of the premise to the level of EPC Band C ; or ( c ) another exemption specify in the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 have be register in the private Rented Sector ( prs ) Exemptions Register . ( 3 ) within six month of the passage of this Act the Secretary of State must make regulation — ( a ) to amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 to enable local authority to give notice to landlord that they wish to inspect a property in relation to those Regulations , request permission from landlord and any tenant in situ at the time to carry out an inspection at an agree time ; ( b ) to expand the scope of the current PRS Exemptions Register and redesign it as a database cover property ' compliance with or exemption from epc ; ( c ) to require a post - improvement EPC to be undertake to demonstrate compliance ; ( d ) to require a valid epc be in place at all time while a property be let ; and ( e ) to raise the maximum total of financial penalty to be impose by a local authority on a landlord of a domestic private rent sector property in relation to the same breach and for the same property to £ 30 , 000 per property and per breach of the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may make regulation — ( a ) to enable tenant in the private rent sector to request that energy performance improvement be carry out where a property be in breach of the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 ; and ( b ) to make provision for a compensation mechanism where a tenant be pay high energy bill as a result of a property not meet the require standard . ( 5 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " this new clause seek to improve the energy efficiency of private rental property for tenant and give power to local authority to conduct assessment of the energy efficiency of private rental property and increase financial penalty for breach of energy efficiency standard . new clause 19 — Decarbonisation of capacity market — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass the Secretary of State must introduce measure to reduce the carbon intensity of power supply by the capacity market by prioritise — ( a ) demand side management , ( b ) the supply of renewable energy , and ( c ) electricity storage and other non - carbon - base energy storage system . " this new clause be a probe amendment to explore the potential of decarbonise the capacity market . new clause 20 — onshore wind and solar power — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a plan to significantly increase the proportion of the energy supply generate by onshore wind power in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the plan under subsection ( 1 ) must set out measure which may include but be not limit to — ( a ) revise national planning guidance on onshore wind and solar to increase the number of onshore wind and solar installation , ( b ) improve infrastructure to ensure access to grid connection for exist onshore wind and solar installation , and ( c ) increase access to grant or subsidy to encourage new onshore wind and solar installation . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must report annually to Parliament to provide an update on the progress in increase onshore wind and solar power . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to prepare a plan to significantly increase the proportion of the UK energy supply generate by onshore wind and solar power . new clause 21 — value add tax on energy - save material — " in Schedule 8 , Part II , Group 23 , note 1 of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 ( meaning of " energy - save material " ) , at the end insert — " ( 1 ) battery use solely for the purpose of store electricity generate by solar panel . " " this new clause include battery use solely to store energy generate by solar panel in the list of energy save material subject to a zero vat rate . new clause 22 — increase grid capacity — " within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a plan to — ( a ) reduce access cost and time frame for grid connection , ( b ) reform the energy network to permit local energy grid , and ( c ) accelerate the development of an offshore wind energy grid in the North Sea . " this new clause seek to require the Secretary of State to produce a plan to increase grid capacity . new clause 23 — Impact of insulation in home on energy bill — " the Secretary of State must , within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , prepare and lie before Parliament a report set out — ( a ) an assessment of the average cost of energy bill if home be properly insulate , and ( b ) the impact of improve all home to the high possible Energy Performance Contract rating on energy bill and greenhouse gas emission . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to carry out an assessment of the average cost of energy bill if home be insulate ( a ) properly and ( b ) to the high possible Energy Performance Contract rating . new clause 24 — government support for community energy — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report set out the financial , policy and other support that the Secretary of State plan to make available to widen the ownership of low carbon and renewable energy scheme and increase the number of such scheme own , or part own , by community organisation . ( 2 ) the report must set out — ( a ) all policy , programme or other initiative with which the Secretary of State plan to support the development and construction of new low carbon community energy scheme ; ( b ) the level of financial support which will be make available for — ( i ) the Rural Community Energy Fund , ( ii ) the Urban Renewable Energy Fund , and ( iii ) any other fund or support package design to support the development of new low carbon community energy scheme ; ( c ) all policy , programme or other initiative the Secretary of State intend will increase community ownership of local low carbon energy scheme through share ownership scheme ; ( d ) the step the Secretary of State be take to develop new market rule to make it easy for low carbon community energy scheme to sell the energy they generate ; ( e ) the number and the capacity of the new community energy scheme the Secretary of State expect to be construct as a result of the measure set out in the report . ( 3 ) not less than twelve month after the publication of the report , and not later than the end of each subsequent period of twelve month , end five year after the publication of the report , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament and publish an assessment of the progress make by the policy , programme and other initiative set out in the report . ( 4 ) the assessment must set out — ( a ) the total amount of financial support provide by the policy in the report ; ( b ) the number and capacity of low carbon community energy scheme — ( i ) complete , and ( ii ) in development ; ( c ) the number and capacity of new share ownership scheme ; ( d ) any change the Secretary of State propose to make to the policy , programme and other initiative include in the original report . " this new clause would require the Government to report annually for 5 year on the support it be provide to Community Energy scheme and the number and capacity of such scheme that be deliver . new clause 25 — investment protection agreement and climate change target — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) initiate procedure for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the Energy Charter Treaty ; ( b ) lie before Parliament a report set out — ( i ) the list of investment protection agreement to which the UK be a party which offer protection to the energy sector , and ( ii ) an assessment of the risk they pose to the Secretary of State fulfil duty in this Act with regard to the achievement of target set by the Climate Change Act 2008 . " new clause 26 — prohibition on set domestic energy price accord to region — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation prohibit energy company from set price for domestic energy supply accord to geographical region . " this new clause would require the Government to bring forward legislation to end the regional pricing of domestic energy bill . new clause 27 — report on extend price cap for off grid fuel — " within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report set out the consequence of extend the price cap for off grid fuel . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a report on extend the price cap for off grid fuel . new clause 28 — prohibition on hydraulic fracturing — " ( 1 ) Associated hydraulic fracturing be prohibit . ( 2 ) " Associated hydraulic fracturing " have the meaning give by section 4b of the Petroleum Act 1998 . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make consequential provision in connection with this section . " this new clause would introduce a permanent ban on fracke . new clause 29 — prohibition of new oil and gas field development and issuing of exploration and production licence — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation prohibit — ( a ) the approval of new oil and gas field development , and ( b ) the release of new oil and gas exploration and production licence . " this new clause would prohibit the approval of new oil and gas field development and the issuing of new oil and gas exploration and production license . new clause 30 — duty to phase down UK petroleum — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must make regulation to amend section 9a of the Petroleum Act 1998 . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) remove the " principal objective " of maximise the economic recovery of UK petroleum ; ( b ) define a new " principal objective " . ( 3 ) the new " principal objective " refer to in paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) must provide for — ( a ) delivery of a manage and orderly phase down of UK petroleum ; ( b ) advancement of the UK ' s climate change commitment , include — ( i ) the target for 2050 set out in section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 , and ( ii ) the commitment give by the Government of the United Kingdom in the Glasgow Climate Pact to pursue policy to limit global warming to 1 . 5 degree celsius ; ( c ) facilitation of a just transition for oil and gas worker and community . ( 4 ) before make regulation under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must hold a public consultation which must include consultation with — ( a ) the devolved administration , ( b ) relevant trade union and worker representative , ( c ) oil and gas worker and community , ( d ) relevant representative from academia , ( e ) relevant climate and environmental organisation and representative , ( f ) relevant industry representative of petroleum and renewable energy business support the transition away from fossil fuel , and ( g ) offshore energy training body . ( 5 ) relevant climate and environmental organisation and representative under subsection ( 4 ( e ) ) must include the Climate Change Committee . " this new clause would amend the Petroleum Act 1998 to remove the principal objective of maximise the economic recovery of UK petroleum and replace it with a new principal objective to deliver a manage and orderly phase down of UK petroleum , advance the UK ' s climate target , and support a just transition for oil and gas worker . new clause 31 — require installation of solar panel on all new home — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation require — ( a ) the installation of solar panel on the roof of all new home ; and ( b ) that new housing development be plan in order to maximise solar gain . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may provide for exemption in case where the installation of solar panel on the roof of a new home be not appropriate . " this new clause would mandate the installation of solar panel on the roof of all new home and require new housing development to be plan in order to maximise solar gain . new clause 32 — capacity market — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must exercise the power in section 27 of the Energy Act 2013 to ensure that the capacity adequacy procure through the capacity market have a rise share of zero carbon flexible and dispatchable power that be consistent with achieve a zero carbon power system by 2035 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that all new multi - year capacity market contract award to unabated fossil fuel capacity market unit should have a contract end date no later than 31 December 2034 . ( 3 ) in exercise function under this section , the Secretary of State must have regard to the desirability of maintain security of supply . ( 4 ) draft regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before Parliament within six month of the day on which this Act be pass . " this new clause probe the potential of decarbonise the capacity market . new clause 33 — Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the day on which this Act be pass , prepare and publish an Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan . ( 2 ) in prepare the Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult the Climate Change Committee . ( 3 ) the Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan under subsection ( 1 ) must include but be not limit to — ( a ) a quantitative assessment on the role of energy demand reduction in meet the United Kingdom ' s carbon budget and the 2050 net zero target ; ( b ) energy demand reduction target for — ( i ) aviation ( ii ) surface transport , ( iii ) shipping , ( iv ) manufacturing and construction , ( v ) building , and ( vi ) agriculture , in line with the UK ' s carbon budget and the 2050 net zero target ; and ( 4 ) an assessment of the role in achieve those target of — ( a ) energy efficiency improvement and technology , and ( b ) avoid unnecessary energy use through infrastructure and behaviour change ( 5 ) the Climate Change Committee must evaluate , monitor and report annually on the implementation of the Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan . " this new clause would introduce a requirement to produce an Energy Demand Reduction Delivery Plan quantify sectoral energy demand reduction target and assess how these can be achieve , and to review progress towards achieve they . new clause 34 — production of sustainable aviation fuel — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation introduce a price stability mechanism to incentivise the production of sustainable aviation fuel in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) a draft of regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before Parliament within twelve month of the passage of this Act . ( 3 ) a Minister must make a motion in each House of Parliament to approve the regulation lay before Parliament under subsection ( 2 ) within fifteen sit day of the date on which they be lay . ( 4 ) if both Houses of Parliament approve the regulation , they must be make in the form in which they be lay before Parliament . ( 5 ) if either House of Parliament do not approve the regulation , the Secretary of State must lay a revise draft of the regulation before Parliament , and subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of this section apply to those regulation as they do to regulation lay under subsection ( 2 ) . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section — " price stability mechanism " be a mechanism under which a producer may enter into a private law contract with a government - back counterparty for the purpose of receive a guarantee price for a product or service ; " sit day " be — ( a ) in the case of the House of Commons , a day on which the House of Commons sit ; ( b ) in the case of the House of Lords , a day on which the House of Lords sit . " new clause 35 — energy decarbonisation for home : local authority funding — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the date on which this Act be pass , carry out and publish an assessment of the benefit of provide long - term predictable funding to local authority for the purpose of energy decarbonisation for home in their local authority area . ( 2 ) the assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include an assessment of the likely impact of decarbonisation funding on — ( a ) energy demand , ( b ) fuel poverty , and ( c ) installation of low - carbon heating system . " new clause 36 — introduction of a National Energy Guarantee — " ( 1 ) within six month of the date on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament a plan to replace the exist energy price guarantee with a National Energy Guarantee in the form of a rise block tariff include a free or low - cost energy allowance to cover essential need . ( 2 ) when prepare the plan under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult independent body work on fuel poverty before determine the pricing of the allowance and the threshold above which the high tariff should apply . ( 3 ) once the plan under subsection ( 1 ) have be lay before Parliament , the Secretary of State may by notice in writing require the regulator to introduce a rise block tariff , provide it satisfy the following condition — ( a ) that an allocation of energy set at no less than 50 % of a define minimum essential level be provide free of charge to all household ; ( b ) that the tariff incentivise energy - save measure , particularly among high income household ; ( c ) that household not connect to a main gas supply will be give an increase electricity allowance , such that they be not disadvantaged ; ( d ) that the tariff be accompany by additional allowance for disabled people and other who require high level of energy usage to fulfil their essential need ; and ( e ) that the tariff do not undermine the ability of energy supplier to offer innovative tariff through high energy band . " this new clause would introduce a National Energy Guarantee in the form of a rise block tariff : an allowance for low - cost energy to cover essential need , with a premium tariff to incentivise energy save measure in household with high energy use , and additional allowance for those with unavoidably high energy need . new clause 37 — industrial lithium - ion battery storage facility — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the date on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must make regulation about the building of industrial lithium - ion battery storage facility . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) a requirement for a relevant environmental permit to be issue by the Environment Agency , and ( b ) a requirement for the relevant fire authority to be a statutory consultee in all planning application for such facility . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation for the building of industrial lithium - ion storage facility which must include require an Environmental Permit from the Environment Agency and for the Fire Authority to be a statutory consultee in planning application . new clause 39 — duty of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority in respect of off - grid fuel — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation extend the duty of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to the distribution and supply of fuel utilise for off - grid home heating . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for GEMA to apply a cap on the price of fuel supply for off - grid home heating proportionate to the cap apply in respect of on - grid home . " this new clause seek to extend the duty of Ofgem to regulate off - grid fuel utilise for off - grid home heating and to ensure that a cap be apply for off - grid home fuel that be proportionate to the cap apply for on - grid home . new clause 40 — renewable liquid fuel for low - carbon heating — " within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation introduce a renewable Liquid Heating Fuel Obligation , set annual obligation on fuel supplier to ensure the supply of recognise low - carbon renewable liquid fuel for domestic and commercial heating . " this new clause would require the Government to introduce a renewable Liquid Heating Fuel Obligation for home and commercial building heating purpose , which would create a scheme that mirror the renewable Transport Fuel Obligations Order 2007 . this would offer the option to off - gas - grid property to switch to renewable liquid fuel . new clause 41 — duty to ensure the low possible cost of energy to business and household — " in exercise any function under or in connection with this Act , it be the duty of the Secretary of State to ensure the low possible cost of energy to business and household . " this new clause be design to be place as Clause 1 of the Bill and would give the Secretary of State the duty to exercise function under the Act which will result from the Bill in a way which would ensure the low possible cost of energy to business and household . new clause 42 — restriction on energy company obligation — " ( 1 ) in section 33bc of the Gas Act 1986 ( promotion of reduction in carbon emission : gas transporter and gas supplier ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1za ) ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) may not impose an obligation on a gas transporter or gas supplier with few than 1 , 000 employee . " ( 2 ) in section 33bd of the Gas Act 1986 ( promotion of reduction in home - heating cost : gas transporter and gas supplier ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) may not impose an obligation on a gas transporter or gas supplier with few than 1 , 000 employee . " ( 3 ) in section 41a of the Electricity Act 1989 ( promotion of reduction in carbon emission : electricity distributor and electricity supplier ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1za ) ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) may not impose an obligation on an electricity distributor or electricity supplier with few than 1 , 000 employee . " ( 4 ) in section 41B of the Electricity Act 1989 ( promotion of reduction in home - heating cost : electricity distributor and electricity supplier ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) ) an order under subsection ( 1 ) may not impose an obligation on an electricity distributor or electricity supplier with few than 1 , 000 employee . " " this new clause would restrict the Energy Company Obligation , which place an obligation on energy supplier to install energy efficiency and heating measure , to large company ( those with over 1000 employee ) . new clause 43 — planning application for onshore wind energy development — " ( 1 ) within three month of the date on which the Act be pass , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) remove from the National Planning Policy Framework the restriction place by footnote 54 on the circumstance in which propose wind energy development involve one or more turbine should be consider acceptable , and ( b ) publish guidance for wind developer on how they can engage community , demonstrate local consent to local planning authority , and provide financial benefit to local resident . ( 2 ) section 78 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 be amend by the insertion , after subsection ( 3 ) , of the follow new subsection — " ( 3A ) an appeal under this section may not be bring or continue against the refusal of an application for planning permission if the development be for the purpose of instal new onshore wind site not previously use for generate wind energy . " " this new clause aim to remove the current planning restriction that a single objection to an onshore wind development be sufficient to block the development , to ensure that local community willing to take onshore wind development will receive some community benefit , and to provide that local decision make on onshore wind can not be overturn on appeal . new clause 44 — independent review of the generation of bioenergy with carbon capture and storage — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must commission an independent review of the generation of bioenergy with carbon capture and storage ( BECCS ) . ( 2 ) the review must report on the potential impact of BECCS on — ( a ) household energy bill , ( b ) lifecycle carbon emission in the generation of energy , ( c ) biodiversity , ( d ) land use , and ( e ) any other matter the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament — ( a ) the report of the review , and ( b ) the Government ' s response to the review . ( 4 ) no subsidy may be give for BECCS until the report of the review and the Government ' s response have be lay before Parliament in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply if an agreement for the giving of subsidy be conclude before the passage of this Act . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section — " bioenergy " mean energy from biomass ; " biomass " have the meaning give by paragraph 3 of the Renewables Obligation Order 2015 ( SI 2015 / 1947 ) ; " subsidy " have the meaning give by section 2 of the Subsidy Control Act 2022 . " this new clause would prohibit new government subsidy for generate bioenergy with carbon capture and storage ( BECCS ) until the Secretary of State commission and publish an independent review of BECCS to establish its impact on household energy bill , lifecycle carbon emission , biodiversity and land use , and the Government ' s response . new clause 45 — modelling of the UK ' s energy need — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must commission — ( a ) a report on the most energy efficient , most economic and least carbon - intensive mean to fulfil the UK ' s current energy need , and ( b ) a report on comprehensive future energy modelling for the UK on the most energy efficient , most economic and least carbon - intensive mean to meet the UK ' s future energy need . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament the report require under subsection ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this section come into force . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission and publish report on the most energy efficient , most economic and least carbon - intensive mean of satisfy the UK ' s energy need . new clause 46 — Review of Contract for Difference strike price — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must undertake a review of Contract for difference strike price , and make a report to Parliament on the review . ( 2 ) the review must — ( a ) include an assessment of the viability of exist project that have already be allocate , ( b ) include an assessment of the UK - base supply chain for each project award contract for Difference , and ( c ) re - evaluate the parameter for — ( i ) the allocation for round five of contract for difference funding , and ( ii ) future allocation round . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to assess the viability of project that have be award contract for Difference , and to undertake a review of the exist parameter for Contracts for difference allocation . new clause 47 — nationally significant infrastructure project and force labour — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide that exist and new applicant for nationally significant infrastructure project ( within the meaning give by section 14 and 15 of the Planning Act 2008 ) of over 50mw must demonstrate that their good be not manufacture in , or produce with material use force labour . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must require all exist and new NSIP energy applicant to submit a report to the Planning Inspectorate to demonstrate clear and convincing evidence that the good , or material in the good , be not mine , produce , or manufacture wholly or in part by force labour . ( 3 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office must create and publish a guide on interpret report for the Planning Inspectorate to consult when determine whether good , or material in the good , be mine , produce , or manufacture wholly or in part by force labour . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide that any nationally significant infrastructure project of over 50mw unable to demonstrate beyond reasonable doubt that its good , or material in the good , be not mine , produce , or manufacture wholly or in part by force labour must be recommend for rejection by the Planning Inspectorate upon the submission of the Inspection to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . ( 5 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for any company find to be circumnavigate the requirement of the regulation through third party , subcontractor or third country to be permanently bar from operate in the United Kingdom . " this new clause will require the developer of new NSIP energy project to demonstrate that their project do not use , benefit from , or contribute to the forced labour . new clause 48 — Development of solar energy plant on agricultural land — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation prevent the development of solar energy project on site of over 500 acre where over 20 % of the land be Best and most versatile agricultural land . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section " Best and most versatile agricultural land " mean land class as grade 1 , grade 2 or subgrade 3a under the agricultural land classification publish by Natural England . ( 3 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) include provision for the prevention of the development of solar energy project for which permission have already be seek , but not grant , and ( b ) apply both to application determine by local planning authority and to those determine by the Planning Inspectorate . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend primary legislation . ( 5 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish plan and incentive for the development of solar energy on rooftop , commercial and residential site , and brownfield site compose of ungrade land . " this new clause would end the development of large - scale solar plant on BMV land and require the Secretary of State to publish plan to incentivise the building of solar on rooftop and brownfield site . new clause 49 — Electricity Storage Capacity — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a strategy for an increase in the provision of electricity storage facility to enhance the resilience and flexibility of electricity supply and ensure fair pricing for electricity user . ( 2 ) the strategy refer to in subsection ( 1 ) must cover all form of electricity storage , include — ( a ) battery , ( b ) hydrogen , ( c ) ammonia , ( d ) adiabatic compress air energy storage system , and ( e ) hydroelectric storage . ( 3 ) the strategy refer to in subsection ( 1 ) must address consideration relate to — ( a ) licensing , ( b ) planning , ( c ) regulation , ( d ) subsidy , and ( e ) taxation . ( 4 ) the strategy refer to in subsection ( 1 ) must set out — ( a ) propose pricing mechanism for store electricity , and ( b ) provision ensure consumer pay a fair price for electricity . " this new clause seek to ensure the UK Government set out a report to Parliament that demonstrate how it plan to meet the increase storage capacity that will be require with a future electricity network that be heavily reliant on renewable source . new clause 50 — renewable Liquid Heating Fuel Obligation — " ( 1 ) within twelve month of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , the Secretary of State must carry out a consultation on a renewable liquid heating fuel obligation . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) a renewable liquid heating fuel obligation mean require fuel supplier to meet annual target to ensure the supply of recognise low - carbon renewable liquid fuel for domestic and commercial heating . ( 3 ) for the purpose of the consultation under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) within three month of the conclusion of the consultation under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report of the consultation . ( 5 ) follow publication of the report under subsection ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation set out a scheme require fuel supplier to meet annual target to ensure the supply of recognise low - carbon renewable liquid fuel for domestic and commercial heating . ( 6 ) Regulations under subsection ( 5 ) may provide for — ( a ) a scheme for the imposition of low - carbon renewable liquid fuel obligation on fuel supplier ; ( b ) the appointment of an Administrator to run the scheme ; ( c ) matter in relation to the function of the Administrator ; ( d ) the method by which amount of low - carbon renewable liquid fuel be to be count or determine for the purpose of provision make by or under the regulation ; ( e ) the Administrator to issue certificate to supplier set out the amount of low - carbon renewable liquid fuel supply , the time period in which they be supply and other relevant fact ; ( f ) a supplier which do not wholly discharge its low - carbon renewable liquid fuel obligation for a give period to pay the Administrator a specify sum within a specified period , and further provision for connected purpose ; ( g ) the imposition of civil penalty , and objection to and appeal against civil penalty ; ( h ) the disclosure of relevant information by relevant person ; and ( i ) such other provision as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to consult on a scheme for renewable liquid heating fuel obligation for home and commercial building heating purpose , and to publish a report on the consultation . the new clause would far allow the Secretary of State make regulation to set up a scheme for renewable liquid heating fuel obligation for home and commercial building heating purpose . new clause 51 — tidal Range power — ( 1 ) within three month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must establish a tidal Range Assessment Grant for the purpose of fund an independent evidence - lead review of the potential contribution to be make by tidal range energy generation to the future energy generating capacity of the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) pre - feasibility assessment of propose tidal range project and their potential both individually and together to contribute to the future energy generating capacity of the United Kingdom ; ( b ) whole life - cycle analysis and financial modelling to identify the optimum framework for the financing of tidal range project as ultra - long lifecycle infrastructure asset , include an assessment of the potential merit of a Regulated Asset Base funding model for tidal range project ; ( c ) a whole energy market analysis to establish and quantify the potential contribution of tidal range power to the decarbonisation of the United Kingdom ' s energy system with particular reference to the value of predictable , flexible energy generation near centre of increase demand and the potential of operational tidal range project to bypass major grid barrier issue and enable a stable , operable , and secure decarbonise energy grid ; ( d ) an assessment of the current and planned innovation in sector relate to the development of operational tidal range project , include in the broad supply chain , digital twin , power handling and distribution , and energy storage , and how these can be use to drive a reduction in cost and maximise the contribution of material and component produce in the United Kingdom to tidal range project ; ( e ) environmental baseline research and monitor programme of the propose location of select tidal range project for the purpose of establish an enhanced understanding of the possible impact on biodiversity and local ecosystem of operational tidal range project ; and ( f ) whole - system analysis to evaluate other potential benefit of operational tidal range project , such as coastal and flood protection , the stimulation of related industry , and contribution to local economy . " new clause 53 — community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Services Scheme — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation require licensed energy supplier with more than 150 , 000 customer ( " eligible licensed supplier " ) to offer a Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement to any Community or small - scale Energy site register under section [ community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme ( no . 2 ) ] for the purpose of allow that site to sell electricity to local consumer . ( 2 ) a Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement be an agreement which require license supplier to make a community or small - scale energy tariff available to consumer local to the export site that have regard to the export price pay or that would be pay to that site under section [ community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme ( no . 2 ) ] . ( 3 ) the eligible licensed supplier may limit the total number of consumer the community or small - scale energy tariff be available to such that the total annual energy under the tariff be broadly equivalent to the total annual energy generate by the site . ( 4 ) the eligible licensed supplier be the registrant for the meter of any local consumer purchasing energy under the community or small - scale energy tariff . ( 5 ) the eligible licensed supplier may charge a reasonable fee for the provision of service under this section provide that it have regard to distribution , licensing and regulatory cost and any guidance provide by GEMA . ( 6 ) the eligible licensed supplier must return any money raise through the sale of energy under a tariff set up under this section to the Community or small - scale Energy site , save for the fee allow under subsection ( 5 ) . ( 7 ) eligible licensed supplier must report annually to gema on — ( a ) the number and capacity of community energy group or small - scale site offer Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement and the number who have contract to use they , ( b ) the total amount of electricity purchase under these agreement , and ( c ) the tariff for each agreement . ( 8 ) gema must — ( a ) produce guidance on the level of community or small - scale energy tariff and on the reasonable charge that eligible supplier may charge for Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement , ( b ) make and publish a report annually on the operation of the export purchase agreement , set out — ( i ) the number of community energy project or small - scale site contract with licensed energy supplier under this section and the total amount of electricity purchase , ( ii ) the license supplier contract with community energy group or small - scale site and the amount of electricity each have purchase , ( iii ) an assessment of how the mechanism be perform and the contribution it be make to deliver secure and low carbon electricity supply , and ( iv ) recommendation for how Community and small - scale Electricity Supplier Service agreement could be improve . ( 9 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 56 — delinke of renewable and gas price in the retail market — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act the Secretary of State must publish a plan to ensure the delinking of gas and renewable and low carbon energy price as they appear in the retail market . ( 2 ) the plan may take into account — ( a ) the establishment of a " green pool " for the direct sale of renewable and low carbon power into the retail market ; ( b ) the incorporation of low carbon and renewable power plant not possess a contract for difference into Contract for difference arrangement suitable for inclusion in a green power pool after it be establish . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to produce a plan to end the linkage between renewable and low carbon energy and gas price at retail level which result in most renewable power be price in the retail market as if it be gas . new clause 57 — onshore wind — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation ensure that onshore wind installation be treat for the purpose of planning and development as local infrastructure and will be permit or otherwise as if they be . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend any primary legislation pass before the passage of this Act . " this new clause ensure that onshore wind development proposal in England and Wales be permit to proceed on the same basis as other local infrastructure project . new clause 58 — community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation require licensed energy supplier with more than 150 , 000 customer ( " eligible licensed supplier " ) to purchase electricity export from site , include those operate by community group , which generate low carbon electricity with a capacity below 5mw . ( 2 ) the requirement impose by regulation under subsection ( 1 ) be to be know as the Community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme . ( 3 ) Fossil fuel local power plant with a capacity of less than 5mw be not eligible for participation in the Community and small - scale Electricity Export Guarantee Scheme , with the exception of a local combine heat and power plant that generate electricity ancillary to its purpose of provide heat for local heat network . ( 4 ) " fossil fuel " have the meaning give in section 104 ( 4 ) . ( 5 ) licensed energy supplier with few than 150 , 000 customer may also purchase electricity export from the site specify in subsection ( 1 ) provide that they do so on the term set out by the regulation . ( 6 ) the regulation must require that eligible licensed supplier — ( a ) offer to the site specify in subsection ( 1 ) a minimum export price set annually by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority ( " GEMA " ) , ( b ) offer to those site a minimum contract period of five year , and ( c ) allow the export site to end the contract after no more than one year . ( 7 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , GEMA must — ( a ) set an annual minimum export price for those site that have regard to current wholesale energy price and inflation in energy price and the wide economy , ( b ) introduce a registration system for export site meet the requirement set out in subsection ( 1 ) and want to access these export purchase , ( c ) define specification for the smart export meter require by such site , ( d ) define " low carbon electricity " in such a way that it include renewable generation technology and may include other technology with extremely low carbon dioxide emission , ( e ) define requirement for an export site generate low carbon electricity with a capacity of less than 5mw to be register as a Community or small - scale Energy site , and maintain a register of such site . ( 8 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide that to access export purchase agreement exporter must — ( a ) register their site with GEMA , ( b ) install a smart export meter that meet specification define by GEMA , and ( c ) notify GEMA if they be a community group . ( 9 ) all license supplier provide purchase agreement for site specify in subsection ( 1 ) must report annually to GEMA — ( a ) the number and capacity of Community or small - scale Energy site that have be offer contract to purchase electricity and the number of such site which agree those contract , ( b ) the total amount of electricity purchase under those agreement , and ( c ) the price pay for that electricity . ( 10 ) OFGEM must make and publish a report annually on the operation of the export purchase agreement , set out — ( a ) the number of Community or small scale Energy site contract with licensed energy supplier under this section and the total amount of electricity purchase , ( b ) the licensed supplier contract with Community or small - scale Energy site and the amount of electricity each have purchase , ( c ) an assessment of how the mechanism be perform and the contribution it be make to deliver secure and low carbon electricity supply , and ( d ) recommendation on how the mechanism could be improve . ( 11 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 59 — decarbonise electricity supply by 2030 — " ( 1 ) it be the duty of the Secretary of State to ensure that the supply of electricity in the UK be decarbonise by 2030 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , produce and publish a plan which will set out how the duty in subsection ( 1 ) be to be achieve . " this new clause be intend to provide for the UK ' s electricity supply to be decarbonise by 2030 . new clause 60 — planning consent for new electricity pylon — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for a fast - track planning process for electricity pylon along motorway and rail line . ( 2 ) regulation under this section may amend primary legislation . " new clause 61 — National Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of the period of 6 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , publish an action plan entitle the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , to set out proposal for delivery of — ( a ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band c by 2035 in all UK home where practical , cost effective and affordable , and ( b ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band b by 2030 in all privately rent non - domestic property , and ( c ) the Future Homes Standard for all new build in England by 2025 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , in develop the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , consult the Climate Change Committee and its sub - committee on adaptation . " new clause 62 — energy performance regulation relate to exist premise ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must make regulation — ( a ) amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 ( S . I . 2015 / 962 ) to require that , subject to subsection ( 2 ) , all tenancy have an Energy performance Certificate ( EPC ) of at least Band C by 31 December 2028 ; and ( b ) amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2019 ( S . I . 2019 / 595 ) to raise the cost cap to £ 10 , 000 . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for exemption to apply where — ( a ) the occupier of any premise whose permission be need to carry out work refuse to give such permission ; ( b ) it be not technically feasible to improve the energy performance of the premise to the level of EPC Band C ; or ( c ) another exemption specify in the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 have be register in the private Rented Sector ( prs ) Exemptions Register . ( 3 ) within six month of the passage of this Act the Secretary of State must make regulation — ( a ) amend the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 to enable local authority to give notice to landlord that they wish to inspect a property in relation to those Regulations , request permission from landlord and any tenant in situ at the time to carry out an inspection at an agree time ; ( b ) expand the scope of the current PRS Exemptions Register and redesign it as a database cover property ' compliance with or exemption from epc ; ( c ) require a post - improvement EPC to be undertake to demonstrate compliance ; ( d ) require a valid epc to be in place at all time while a property be let ; and ( e ) raise the maximum total of financial penalty to be impose by a local authority on a landlord of a domestic private rent sector property in relation to the same breach and for the same property to £ 30 , 000 per property and per breach of the Energy Efficiency ( private Rented Property ) ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2015 . ( 4 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . " new clause 67 — local supply right — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish a report on and consult on the introduction of local supply right for community energy scheme , which would enable these scheme to sell their power to local customer . ( 2 ) the report must set out — ( a ) the potential benefit of community energy , ( b ) the estimate additional cost to consumer bill that would be incur in order for community energy scheme to account for 10 % of energy generation by 2033 , and ( c ) an estimate of typical cost / benefit ratio for local community and consumer . " this new clause seek to require the Government to publish a consultation on the introduction of local supply right for community energy scheme within 6 month of the Act be pass . new clause 68 — report on the functioning of the energy price support framework — " within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before Parliament report assess — ( a ) the potential benefit of a social tariff would have on level of fuel poverty across the UK , ( b ) the adequacy of the current system for individual who have high energy need due to a medical condition , and ( c ) the potential benefit of a strategy that reward household who use less energy by guarantee they a low price through a tiere electricity plan . " this new clause will require the Secretary of State to report on the functioning of the current framework as it relate to certain group . government amendment 180 . amendment 3 , in clause 2 , page 3 , line 30 , at end insert " issue by the economic regulator or other competent authority " . this amendment allow person with a CO2 storage licence from the North Sea Transition Authority to operate a geological storage site for co2 disposal , as per current legislation in the Energy Act 2010 . amendment 4 , page 3 , line 34 , leave out " a service " and insert " a monopoly service to multiple user " . this amendment would exclude from the requirement to have an economic licence , all form of transportation where competitive market be more likely to develop than monopoly e . g . shipping , rail or road . it would also enable investment in private spur connection to the regulated CO2 network . government amendment 131 , 198 , 181 , 132 , 199 to 209 , 144 to 147 , 139 and 140 . amendment 175 , in clause 65 , page 58 , line 13 , leave out " in the opinion of the Secretary of State " . this amendment would remove the role of the Secretary of State in determine who qualify as a " low carbon hydrogen producer . " government amendment 141 and 142 . amendment 9 , page 60 , line 22 , leave out clause 69 . this amendment , together with Amendments 10 to 12 , would leave out the clause of the bill which provide for a hydrogen levy . amendment 10 , page 61 , line 1 , leave out clause 70 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 9 . amendment 170 , in clause 70 , page 61 , line 2 , leave out " relevant market participant ( see subsection ( 8 ) ) " and insert " the Secretary of State " . this amendment , together with Amendments 171 to174 , be intend to provide that the Secretary of State , rather than relevant market participant , should fund the hydrogen levy administrator . amendment 171 , page 61 , line 19 , leave out " relevant market participant " and insert " the Secretary of State " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 170 . amendment 172 , page 61 , line 34 , leave out " relevant market participant " and insert " the Secretary of State " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 170 . amendment 173 , page 61 , line 37 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 170 . government amendment 148 . amendment 174 , page 62 , line 9 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) . see explanatory statement to Amendment 170 . amendment 11 , page 62 , line 12 , leave out clause 71 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 9 . amendment 12 , page 63 , line 11 , leave out clause 72 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 9 . amendment 13 , in clause 73 , page 64 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 14 , page 64 , line 26 , leave out " each paragraph of " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 15 , page 64 , line 27 , leave out " under that paragraph " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 121 . amendment 16 , page 65 , line 6 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 17 , page 65 , line 10 , leave out " a hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 18 , page 65 , line 15 , leave out " a hydrogen production allocation body or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 19 , in clause 74 , page 65 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 20 , page 65 , line 31 , leave out " hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 21 , in clause 75 , page 65 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 6 , page 66 , line 2 , after " that " insert " eligible " . this amendment clarify that the low carbon hydrogen producer must be eligible to receive support , which other amendment ensure mean that they be compliant with the Low Carbon Hydrogen Standard . amendment 22 , page 66 , line 10 , leave out " ( 1 ) or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 23 , in clause 76 , page 66 , line 23 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 24 , page 66 , line 30 , leave out " hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 25 , page 66 , line 33 , leave out " hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 26 , page 67 , line 10 , leave out " hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 27 , page 67 , line 15 , leave out " for produce hydrogen or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 28 , page 67 , line 17 , leave out " ( whether in respect of hydrogen production or capture of carbon dioxide ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 143 . amendment 29 , in clause 77 , page 67 , line 40 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 30 , page 68 , line 19 , leave out " hydrogen production counterparty or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 31 , page 68 , line 24 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and insert — " ( c ) how the eligible carbon capture entity to whom the offer be make may enter into a carbon capture revenue support contract as a result of the offer ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 32 , page 68 , line 28 , leave out " eligible low carbon hydrogen producer or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 33 , in clause 78 , page 68 , line 36 , leave out " an eligible low carbon hydrogen producer , or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 34 , page 68 , line 39 , leave out " hydrogen production counterparty or ( as the case require ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 35 , page 69 , line 1 , leave out " hydrogen production counterparty or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 36 , page 69 , line 16 , leave out " hydrogen production counterparty or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 37 , page 69 , line 35 , leave out clause 80 . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 38 , in clause 81 , page 70 , line 33 , leave out " hydrogen transport counterparty , hydrogen storage counterparty , hydrogen production counterparty " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 39 , in clause 82 , page 71 , line 1 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 40 , in clause 83 , page 71 , line 32 , leave out sub - paragraph ( i ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 41 , page 71 , line 40 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 149 . amendment 42 , page 72 , line 9 , leave out " hydrogen production revenue support contract or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 150 to 152 . amendment 43 , in clause 84 , page 73 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 210 to 213 . amendment 44 , in clause 86 , page 74 , line 9 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 45 , page 74 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . amendment 46 , age 74 , line 28 , leave out " a hydrogen levy administrator " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . Amendment 47 , in clause 88 , page 77 , line 2 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 153 to 162 . amendment 48 , page 78 , line 37 , leave out clause 90 . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 163 . amendment 49 , in clause 91 , page 79 , line 36 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 9 to 12 . government amendment 164 , 70 , 165 , 122 to 124 and 214 to 216 . amendment 7 , in clause 128 , page 115 , line 6 , after " transportation " insert " by pipeline , ship or other mean , " . carbon dioxide transport by ship be almost certain to be a part of the Scottish Cluster and subsequent phase of other CCUS cluster and this amendment make explicit that transportation by ship or other mean would be include in the financial assistance available under clause 103 . government amendment 125 to 129 , 71 , 72 , 133 and 134 . amendment 8 , in clause 142 , page 127 , line 2 , leave out from " heat " to the end of line 18 and insert " from a renewable source . " this amendment would enable the Secretary of State to make provision for the establishment of a low - carbon heat scheme which encourage the use of heating appliance that generate heat from a renewable source but which might previously have burn a fossil fuel . government amendment 217 and 218 . Amendment 50 , in clause 152 , page 133 , line 30 , at end insert " , except that that power be not exercisable without a warrant issue by a justice of the peace . " this amendment would require a warrant for the exercise of the power to enter premise in a hydrogen grid conversion trial . amendment 130 , page 136 , line 3 , leave out clause 155 . this amendment would remove clause 155 and therefore ensure that fusion energy facility be still require to secure a nuclear site licence . amendment 1 , in clause 159 , page 137 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the person designate under subsection ( 1 ) must be a public body with no other role or interest in the energy sector . " this amendment ensure that the ISOP be a public body , not an individual or a private company , and have no conflict interest . amendment 51 , in clause 160 , page 138 , line 9 , at begin insert — " ( A1 ) the ISOP must carry out its function in the way that it consider be well calculate to ensure the low possible cost of energy to business and household . " this amendment , together with Amendment 52 , would introduce a new primary objective for the Independent System Operator and Planner ( ISOP ) , to which the exist objective for the ISOP in the Bill would become secondary . amendment 52 , page 138 , line 9 , at begin insert " subject to subsection ( A1 ) , " . see explanatory statement to Amendment 51 . government amendment 73 to 76 . amendment 2 , in clause 162 , page 140 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) the ISOP must have regard to the strategic priority set out in the current strategy and policy statement but will otherwise carry out its function independently of the Secretary of the State . " this amendment ensure that the Independent System Operator and Planner ( ISOP ) be independent . government amendment 166 and 77 to 79 . amendment 53 , page 178 , line 25 , leave out clause 212 . this amendment would remove the clause grant the Secretary of State an extension of time for the extension of power relate to smart meter . government amendment 103 and 219 to 224 . amendment 54 , in clause 227 , page 188 , line 31 , leave out paragraph ( c ) . this amendment would ensure that it be not possible to impose a penalty on a person for not comply with a request for information relate to a heat network zone . Amendment 55 , in clause 228 , page 189 , line 9 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 10 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) may not impose a requirement on any person . " this amendment would prevent regulation about heat network within heat network zone from impose mandatory requirement . amendment 56 , page 192 , line 30 , leave out clause 230 . this amendment would leave out the clause which provide for the enforcement of heat network zone requirement . amendment 57 , page 193 , line 12 , leave out clause 231 . this amendment would leave out the clause which provide for penalty to be impose by regulation about heat network zone . Amendment 58 , page 196 , line 3 , leave out clause 235 . this amendment , together with Amendments 59 to 63 , would remove chapter 2 of Part 9 of the Bill , on energy smart appliance . amendment 59 , page 197 , line 13 , leave out clause 236 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 58 . amendment 60 , page 198 , line 4 , leave out clause 237 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 58 . amendment 61 , page 199 , line 39 , leave out clause 238 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 58 . amendment 62 , page 200 , line 22 , leave out clause 239 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 58 . amendment 63 , page 201 , line 14 , leave out clause 240 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 58 . Amendment 64 , page 205 , line 14 , leave out clause 246 . this amendment , together with Amendments 65 to 67 , would leave out Part 10 of the Bill , on the energy performance of premise . government amendment 182 to 184 . amendment 65 , page 206 , line 29 , leave out clause 247 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 64 . amendment 66 , page 207 , line 1 , leave out clause 248 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 64 . this amendment would remove a clause which would enable the creation of criminal offence by regulation . government amendment 185 . Amendment 67 , page 208 , line 6 , leave out clause 249 . see explanatory statement to Amendment 64 . this amendment would remove a clause which would enable the amendment , repeal or revocation of primary legislation by regulation . government amendment 186 to 193 . amendment 68 , page 214 , line 1 , leave out clause 255 . this amendment would leave out the clause which provide for requirement to be impose by energy saving opportunity scheme regulation . amendment 69 , page 216 , line 16 , leave out clause 257 . this amendment would leave out the clause which provide for the enforcement of energy saving opportunity scheme regulation and the creation of connected penalty and offence . government amendment 225 to 229 , 80 , 81 , 230 to 238 , 82 , 194 , 239 , 195 , 240 , 241 , 83 , 242 , 84 to 94 , 243 , 176 , 177 , 196 , 178 , 244 , 104 to 110 , 169 , 179 , 111 to 120 , 95 to 100 , 197 , 101 , 135 to 138 , 167 , 168 and 102 . I be delighted to rise today to bring before the House our landmark Energy Bill for its consideration . this world - lead , historic Bill — a Conservative Bill — will deliver for this country clean , cheap and more secure energy . it will level up this country , while contribute to level down bill for the british people . it will unleash new technology , liberate private investment in clean technology , modernise and future - proof our energy network , and deliver for this country and for future generation . the United Kingdom already have a great story to tell on reduce our carbon emission . we have reduce our emission fast than any other G7 nation . we be the first european nation to legislate for net zero . we have the first oil and gas basin dedicate to go net zero and the first , second , third and fourth - large offshore wind farm in the world operate and generate power off the coast of Great Britain right now . we have eliminate our reliance on coal . we have grow to more than 40 % of energy be generate by renewable . we have announce further investment in carbon capture , usage and storage , and we be press ahead with great british Nuclear , which I launch two month ago with an exciting programme for small modular reactor . we be on track to deliver 24 GW of nuclear power on the grid by 2025 . [ Official Report , 7 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 4MC . ] can the Minister confirm that at the weekend , agreement be make that have remove Northern Ireland from benefit from the renewable liquid fuel agreement ? be that the case , and if so , why ? if the hon . Gentleman will have patience , I will come to the renewable liquid heating fuel amendment later in my speech , where I be happy to direct any question to which he be seek answer . we have do all the thing I have mention while grow our economy . we have cut our emission by 40 % while grow our economy by 60 % . it be an inherently conservative value — a value close to the heart of all on the Government Benches — to pass on what we inherit in a well state to the next generation . that include the state of our environment and our climate . there be also no more conservative value than to ensure the security of our nation and its people , and that include our energy supply . on that very point — security — what provision be be make for day when there be no wind , give that we will see the closure of most of our nuclear power station this decade and will have little else to rely on , other than fossil fuel ? how be we go to get through ? my right hon . friend know that I be a great champion of support our oil and gas industry , which continue to supply a large amount of our energy baseload and will do for a significant amount of time to come . as he also know , we be invest a lot of time and money into ensure that we deliver the next generation of nuclear power plant , include small modular reactor , so that we have the energy baseload that this country need so that , as he rightly suggest , when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , people can still be assure that the light will come on . the conservative principle that I have speak about be at the very heart of the Bill , which I be pleased to bring before the House today . it be true that some time have pass since the Bill be introduce in July last year . the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , be but a boy when this Bill be introduce last year . a huge amount of constructive dialogue and dedicated work have take place during that time . I thank all the Secretaries of State at the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , the Ministers and the Prime Ministers who have be involve since the Bill be introduce . since the Bill come to this House from the other place , I have meet and engage with colleague from all side of House . we debate the Bill in a lively second reading and spend 72 long hour in Committee , so I start by thank everyone across the House , especially the shadow ministerial team , the former Scottish National party energy spokesman , the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , and all on the Government side , for their constructive engagement in ensure that we get the Bill to these final stage in a state that , I hope , will be broadly welcome by most , if not all , Members . will the Minister give way ? I would be delighted . the Minister refer to base energy load , which be crucial in respect of nuclear energy , but be also relevant to marine energy , which , as he know , we have huge potential for around our coast , particularly in Scotland . will he confirm that that will play an important part in the next contract for difference round and in his thinking ? I be delighted to confirm that that will play an important part . indeed , we have ringfence £ 10 million to support marine energy in the country . we believe it have a huge role to play in deliver our energy baseload . indeed , the innovation be make in that technology be incredibly exciting and will play a huge part in our energy baseload move forward . rise — it be always a delight to give way to the hon . Gentleman . the Minister be incredibly well - mannered . the irony be that we generate an enormous amount of power from onshore wind in the highland , yet we face the high level of fuel poverty . new clause 1 , table in my name , talk about increase the community benefit in some way and widen the number of community who could benefit . I be aware that the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) have table a similar amendment , and I would like to voice my support and that of the Liberal Democrats for it . I thank the hon . gentleman for his constructive intervention . the Government recently launch a consultation on community benefit , because we do understand that those community be ask to host piece of critical national infrastructure should be recompense for that , and that the community benefit that the individual , community and group in those area receive should be enough to recompense they for what they be do in the national interest . on infrastructure of national scale , in order to keep people on side , be it not also vital that such project be in the right place — unlike the Sunnica development near my constituency — so that those of we who care about the agenda can support it wholeheartedly and ensure that the conservative value that the Minister talk about be rightly behind the green energy revolution ? absolutely . it be incumbent on all involved , from the transmission operator to the developer , National Grid , the electricity system operator and indeed the Department and those across Government , to ensure that where such piece of critical national infrastructure be be build , develop and plan , plan be proceed with and lay in a way that be conducive to local sentiment and local support and will provide for that local community for many year to come . will the Minister give way ? yes . I would be delighted to give way . I be grateful to the very polite Minister , as be say by the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . I be sure the Minister be aware that heat pump will produce about 2 . 5 time the energy of the electricity put into they , or four time for ground source heat pump — they be multiplier of the power put into they . the Government have a plan for 600 , 000 to be instal by 2028 . will we see those ? how many will we see next year ? do he have intervene target for that ? at the moment , they be at only a 10th of where the target would have they . secondly , a point ask in my constituency be about the new £ 10 million community energy fund , which relate only to England , despite energy be reserve . will he enlighten Euan Scott , my constituent , please ? order . there be so much pressure on time , so it be really important that intervention be short . on the hon . member ' s first point , absolutely , we remain committed to deliver , develop and roll out heat pump across the country , and we remain committed to the target we have set out . on the community energy fund , there be already an equivalent scottish community energy fund up and run and deliver for community across Scotland . that be a competency of the Scottish Government at Holyrood . I would be delighted to direct any question that he or his constituent have on that to the Scottish Government in Edinburgh . [ interruption . ] he make the case from a sedentary position that energy be reserve . yes , but the Scottish Government have their own community energy fund . we will base a lot of what we be do on that fund as it be roll out in Scotland . with your leave , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will take some time to explain the not insubstantial number of Government amendment to the House . I turn first to Government amendment 148 and the subsequent consequential amendment . I think it be fair to say that considerable concern be raise about the initial proposal for a hydrogen levy . the Government have carefully consider those concern . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) for his amendment on the issue , and indeed the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) for his amendment relate to those clause . it be right that we take these consideration seriously and , where appropriate , seek to make change . will the Minister give way ? I would be delighted . may I take the opportunity to thank my hon . friend for reflect on what I say in Committee and for the commitment give to I by the Government to bring about an amendment to the Bill ? I thank he for listen to Back Benchers ' concern in Committee . I be very pleased to take that intervention . I thank my right hon . friend for it . if he be patient , I will explain to the rest of the House — I think Committee member be aware — what we seek to do with the hydrogen levy as it stand . the Government ' s amendment will remove provision that enable the levy to be impose on energy supplier in Great Britain , ensure that within Great Britain the levy can be place only on gas shipper . in the case of Northern Ireland , the amendment seek to ensure that only gas supply licence holder who engage with gas shipping can be subject to that levy . that reflect the different approach to the licensing of gas shipping across Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the revise provision will provide a fairer approach to funding hydrogen , place the charge higher up the supply chain , with the potential for cost to be spread to the sector expect to benefit most from early hydrogen development , not the wide british public . I remind the House that the Bill will also enable the option of fund hydrogen through the Exchequer . by provide two robust and reliable option for hydrogen funding , we will help bolster industry confidence in the viability of the UK hydrogen economy and boost private investment , with the potential to unlock significant energy security and economic benefit . the hydrogen sector could support over 12 , 000 job and generate up to £ 11 billion in private investment by 2030 . I must be clear , and the House should understand , that the Bill will not actually introduce a levy on gas shipper . instead , it will enable the Government to introduce the levy through secondary legislation . it be very welcome that the levy will not be apply on household as a direct cost they will see in their bill , but it be something of a sleight of hand just to push it far up the supply chain , because it will be an energy - relate cost somewhere in the supply chain that will feed down to every business and household in another way through an additional charge they will face , much like vat . I welcome it as far as I can , but I would rather see it remove in its entirety . I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . as we have speak about before , I understand his position on the levy . it be our belief that in ensure that the levy be place higher up the chain , the sector that will benefit most from the early development of hydrogen will bear the brunt of the cost , not the wide british public . that be the aim and intention of what we seek to achieve . as I be say , the Bill will not introduce the levy on to shipper ; instead , it will enable the Government to introduce the levy through secondary legislation . I be sure we will continue to have this debate in the month and year ahead . I turn to Government new clause 63 , amendment 8 and new clause 40 and 50 on renewable liquid heating fuel . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) for his work and amendment relate to renewable liquid fuel for low - carbon heating . his constructive work with the Government have be incredibly helpful and positive . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , who have be champion the use of renewable liquid fuel for low - carbon heating for many year . as the recent biomass strategy make clear , such fuel will have a critical role to play in decarbonise our economy . we recognise that they have the potential to play an important role in decarbonise heat , especially as not all off - grid property will be suitable for electrification . we will explore the potential of these fuel for heat by issue a consultation within 12 month . we want to take the power now to support the use of these fuel in heat in the future , should they be need . that be why we table Government new clause 63 , take power to impose obligation on heating fuel supplier to increase the supply of renewable liquid heating fuel . in my constituency we have a particular issue with commercial and domestic use , because resident be often in the same building as commercial property . it would be helpful for the Minister to look at the definition of heat network system , so that Ofgem can understand what system qualify as heat network in domestic property , which be a real issue in my constituency . the measure in the Bill will provide the Government with power to implement heat network zone in England . those include power to develop a nationwide methodology for identify and designate area as heat network zone , and to establish a new zone co - ordinator role — which we generally expect will be fill by local government , though my hon . friend be free to apply — with responsibility for designate area as heat network zone and enforce requirement in they . they also include power require heat network develop in zone to meet a low - carbon requirement , and to ensure that certain building and heat source connect to a heat network in a zone within a specific timeframe . the relevant Minister in the Department and I will be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss how that will be relevant to her urban constituency as we move forward and seek to implement these proposal . I join the Minister in thank my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) for lead on the measure include in new clause 63 . on the renewable liquid heating fuel obligation , the Minister say that he would do a consultation within the next 12 month . many of my constituent who be off - grid also want secondary legislation to come through in the next 12 month . can he assure the House that that be his intention ? I can confirm that we will move to a consultation in the next few month . indeed , we will use the power to support the use of those fuel in heat in future , should they be need . again , as we move through the consultation period , other Ministers in the Department and I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and all member concerned . I understand that this issue affect many constituency across the country and , rightly , interest many right hon . and hon . member . as we move forward with the consultation and towards implement the power , we will be delighted to meet member . I welcome Government new clause 52 and 63 , which be of particular value to those live in certain part of the country , such as north - east Scotland , as the Minister be very much aware . will he join I in reinforce and emphasise the benefit of development in sustainable aviation fuel and renewable liquid heating fuel respectively , particularly in Aberdeenshire ? yes , I be very pleased to welcome development in renewable liquid heating fuel . the consultation , which will be UK - wide , will benefit those live in rural constituency such as Banff and Buchan , and those across north - east Scotland and rural Britain . I welcome the support for the sustainable aviation fuel amendment , to which I will refer shortly . to back up the point make by the hon . member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , standard consultation and the legislation be in place in 12 month do not show the necessary urgency . that be the point that unite many people . the Minister , with his Thompson gun approach to spit thing out , get that one out very quickly , but we need it do an awful lot more quickly than start within 12 month . this government will probably be go in 12 month . I be determined to work very hard to ensure that this Government will not be go in 12 month . however , we be take the power now to ensure support for the use of these fuel in heat in future , if need . I should make clear that we be start the consultation within the next 12 month , not in 12 month . it will be within the next year . there be a vast rural housing network in Northern Ireland of so many household , and there be overreliance on heating oil . what be the arrangement for use renewable liquid fuel in Northern Ireland ? once again , I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I be just about to answer his original question : I can confirm that official from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero in London have be in discussion with Northern Ireland official , who be broadly content with the Government ' s approach on this issue . however , conversation will continue with Northern Ireland official on what we can do to support renewable liquid heating fuel in Northern Ireland . once again , as on the other issue I have specify , I would be delighted to meet the hon . Gentleman and colleague from across Northern Ireland to discuss how this Government can ensure that the support deliver in Great Britain can be replicate in Northern Ireland . I turn back to my comment on renewable liquid heating fuel . with regard to amendment 8 , the power in clause 142 relate only to the planned clean heat market mechanism , for which the Government ' s focus be on support the development of the market for electric heat pump . we do not believe that expand the power set out here be necessary to allow for boiler burn renewable liquid fuel to be instal or use . in the light of those step , I hope my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth be reassure by the Government ' s action and will feel able not to press the amendment . I turn to Government new clause 52 and 169 and new clause 35 on sustainable aviation fuel . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Chris Grayling ) for his constructive engagement with I and colleague at the Department for Transport . this Government be commit to ensure that the UK sustainable aviation fuel programme be one of the most comprehensive in the world . that be why in the Bill we be commit to publish a consultation on the option for design and implement a revenue certainty scheme within six month of it be pass . we will also update Parliament within 18 month on the development of a sustainable aviation fuel revenue certainty scheme . as the Secretary of State for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Mr Harper ) , set out in a write ministerial statement yesterday , that build on our commitment to deliver a revenue certainty scheme for domestic sustainable aviation fuel production by the end of 2026 . the intention be that the scheme will be industry - fund . alongside that , we have publish a plan for deliver the scheme , which contain a timeline of key milestone such as a public consultation on option , an associated Government response , design phase , and delivery and legislative step . I thank my hon . friend for his constructive approach on this issue . could I seek one more assurance ? when the consultation be finish , will the Government review the likelihood of secure the investment we want ? if there be still doubt , will he ensure that discussion take place about whether the Government should play a part in that , potentially at a future fiscal event ? I can give my right hon . friend that assurance and go far . that commitment , alongside our £ 165 million advanced fuel fund and the world - lead SAF mandate , will help to provide strong market signal and incentive to drive the demand and supply of SAF from sustainable source . future funding decision on SAF will be consider as part of the next spending review . I would like to turn briefly to community energy . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) for his continued engagement on the Bill , particularly his championing of community energy , alongside many other in this House . the Government recognise that community energy project can have real benefit for the community in which they be base , and be keen to ensure that they deliver value for money for consumer . that be why we have launch a new £ 10 million community energy fund , which expand on the success of the previous rural community energy fund , to enable both rural and urban community across England to access grant funding to develop local renewable energy project for investment . it be fantastic that the Government have announce the new fund to help community energy scheme get off the ground . that be a very welcome step . could my hon . friend outline what step he will take to remove the barrier that prevent community energy scheme from access local market ? I can indeed . I be delighted to tell my hon . friend that alongside our propose fund , we be commit to publish an annual report to Parliament and to consult on the barrier the sector face when develop project . I be also very pleased to announce that his Majesty ' s Government have reach an agreement with the Scottish Government to amend the Bill to secure their support for a legislative consent motion in the Scottish Parliament . the comprehensive set of amendment agree with the Administration in Edinburgh will strengthen the Bill ' s consultation provision and require the Secretary of State to seek the consent of devolve Ministers before exercise power under clause 2 , 3 and 293 . I would also like to take this opportunity to confirm to the House and to the Scottish Government that by virtue of clause 218 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , the regulatory cost the GEMA can recover from gas and electricity licence holder from across Great Britain include any cost it occur perform the scottish licensing function . the Government be disappoint that the Welsh Government have decide not to support the legislative consent motion for the Bill in the Senedd . however , as a sign of good faith the Government will extend the amendment agree with the Scottish Government to apply in Wales and Northern Ireland where appropriate . a number of Government amendment for consideration on Report relate to commencement . they ensure that clause , such as those relate to the smart meter roll - out and low carbon heat scheme , will come into force as soon as the Bill gain Royal Assent . the remain Government amendment be technical in nature and , as such , I do not propose to discuss any of they in great detail — I be sure Madam Deputy Speaker be delighted . I thank the Minister for give way , but I notice that I can not see any mention in the amendment of stand charge . I know that be a very difficult thing , but in my constituency there be a great deal of concern about the fact that there be no uniformity in the United Kingdom on stand charge . my constituent can pay around £ 100 a year more than people elsewhere in the country . do the Government have any intention to address that issue , along with issue such as domestic insulation ? I thank the hon . Lady very much for her intervention and her question . I be engage with Ofgem on that very issue and be look to convene a meeting in Edinburgh with all the significant player involve in energy transmission and production in Scotland at the early available opportunity , so we can discuss the issue regard stand charge and other issue that affect scottish bill payer . I would be very delighted to engage with she as we move towards that meeting take place . the Minister may have hear on " the World at one " on Radio 4 last week the head of OVO Energy talk about the movement for the cost of transmission from the unit price to the stand charge price , which have ramp up standing charge and be very concern to many people because that disproportionately impact poor bill payer . will he look at that issue and discuss it with Ofgem at his meeting ? yes , I can confirm that I will raise that issue with Ofgem at my next meeting , and at the next available opportunity I have to meet the Chairman of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee , I will certainly have an answer for he on that question . in 2013 , the then coalition Government cut all the energy efficiency programme , plunge million of people into debt . what plan do he have to ensure there be an insulation programme to provide desperately need energy efficiency right across home and household ? this be the big piece of energy legislation ever pass by the British Parliament . we be drive forward with scheme to help insulate house , drive down bill , and deliver clean and more secure energy , and all we can get from the opposition be criticism . we have ramp up our renewable energy production to over 40 % . we have eliminate coal . we be develop new nuclear , which the opposition fail to do over 13 year in government . rather than carp from the sideline , it would be useful if Opposition Back Benchers get on board , support the Bill and support our great british company develop the technology to take this country forward , create the new job , ensure security of supply and drive towards net zero , which mean we will leave this country and the planet in a well place for the next generation , instead of try to score political point at the expense of this government who be seek to deliver for the british people . as such , I be immensely proud of the Bill . it be strong before and it be even strong now . it be , as I have just say , the single big piece of energy legislation ever to be bring before the House . rise — I be afraid I will not give way . the Bill be a revolution in community energy : restart our nuclear sector ; regulate for fusion ; develop carbon capture , usage and storage ; support the technology of the future ; liberate private finance ; develop our own oil and gas reserve ; build an energy network of the future to secure our energy supply ; secure our energy base so we be power Britain from Britain ; grow our economy ; invest to ensure low bill ; and drive towards a clean future . that be what the Bill achieve . it be bring here and deliver today by the Conservative Government , move the country forward into a bright , more secure and clean future . therefore , Mr Deputy Speaker , with great pleasure , I commend the new clause and amendment to the House . rise — order . as member can see , there be great interest in this debate . I be therefore ponder exactly what the time limit will be . member will be inform just before Dave Doogan speak , I believe . [ interruption . ] it will not apply to the Labour Front Bencher ; the hon . Gentleman can be relieve . the Minister be quite right : the Bill have be with we for rather a long time . I be personally delighted that it be before we this afternoon , but we need to remember that second Reading be over a year ago , in July 2022 , in another place . the Bill have survive four secretary of State and two Departments in its passage through the House , so it certainly should be an improved Bill by now . I be concern , however , that the long passage of the Bill to the statute book have have a real effect on investor and various other people seek to invest in the low - carbon economy . we should not forget that . what be this Bill about ? as the Minister have say , it be essentially about the decarbonisation of the energy system and make that system fit for net zero . it be , overwhelmingly , a Bill that enable that decarbonisation to take place , and it have be describe in a number of instance as a " green plumbing " Bill , which I think be not a bad description . it provide the necessary mechanism and the detail of how we will reach our target in a variety of area , as the Minister say : on hydrogen , on carbon capture and storage , on licensing , on the introduction of an independent system operator — which be very important to good construction — on low - carbon heat scheme , on district heating , on energy - save appliance , and on fusion power . it also make a number of regulation change in relation to civil nuclear decommissioning and oil and gas management . it be , moreover , a Bill that the opposition have welcome , both for its extent and for its " green plumbing " activity . we be supportive of its measure in Committee , while also table amendment that we think would strengthen its approach . indeed , the Government have insert some of they in the Bill , with very slight change , and we welcome that as well . however , in my view the Bill be incomplete and unsatisfactory , give its ambition as a green decarbonisation Bill , in that it fail to complete the three test , or task , that be necessary to provide the clarity and consistency that would ensure that the policy will deliver what be claim . those test be these . first , what be the target for a policy , and how firm be they ? secondly , what be the technical mean whereby the propose target can be action ? thirdly , what be the plan , both financially and procedurally , to make the target real and not just hot - air aspiration ? it be essential to the process of energy decarbonisation for all three of those test to be in the Bill as we proceed against very tight timescale and immense challenge of implementation . in some instance , the Bill have succeed in that regard . the Government ' s target be set out in a number of document on clean energy , such as the energy security strategy and the 2020 Energy White Paper . indeed , in a number of instance , the target contain in those document have be substantially add to in the Bill . for example , the target of 10 GW of low - carbon hydrogen production by 2030 have be underpin by the clause relate to such matter as hydrogen levy management procedure . I applaud the Government ' s change of heart on the hydrogen levy . although a number of Committee member knowingly vote the wrong way , with the honourable exception of the right hon . member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Alec Shelbrooke ) , the Government have put that right now . we would have like to see they go a little far with a clear statement that the money would come from the Consolidated Fund , but we will live with the change that they have undertake to make . I think we can count that as both a win for our pressure on the Bill and a win for the Bill itself . I agree that those three test for decarbonisation make a lot of sense , but do the hon . Gentleman agree that as well as target for some of the good stuff , we need to see the Government stop do the bad stuff ? in this case , the bad stuff be more and more new licence for oil and gas in the North sea . would labour support my amendment , which would see an end to the MER rule on maximise the economic recovery of petroleum and replace it with a just transition to a green economy ? as long as we have a statutory duty to maximise the economic recovery of oil and gas , it do not matter how many target we have on renewable , because we will not meet the target that we need to meet . I do not think it would be appropriate for I to indicate exactly which amendment from various member we might or might not support , and it would take a great deal of time for I to do so , but the hon . Member will recall that we table an amendment on maximum economic recovery in Committee . I think she can take from that that , broadly speak , we support the principle of " stop do the bad thing and start do the good thing " . whether the detail of her new clause fit exactly with that picture be another matter , but I hope she can take some encouragement from that . do the hon . Gentleman accept that , while the Government may have set out the high - level ambition and target , they have fail to highlight the cost of this Bill to ordinary constituent ? I think , for example , of the cost of bring property up to certain energy efficiency level , the size of the hydrogen levy and who will pay it when it be introduce , the cost of sustainable aviation fuel to the aviation industry and the cost of fly — I could go on . that have not be spell out , because there be a dishonesty here , and the burden will fall on ordinary people . it be not for I to defend how the Government have manage their arrangement as far as the cost of these measure be concern , but I would say more generally that we have to cast this Bill in term of how much it would cost we as consumer and other if we do not do these thing over the next period . we need to consider the cost to people ' s bill , people ' s life and people ' s welfare if we simply stand aside and ignore do the thing that be necessary for decarbonisation . I can honestly say that in the long term the overall cost of do these thing would be far more on the save side for customer and the general public than the issue that be before we at the moment . the Government have do a number of thing in this Bill . I mention the measure on hydrogen , which I welcome in term of meet hon . member ' concern . we be also pleased to see that the Government have table amendment on other issue of concern to member such as sustainable aviation fuel , and new clause 34 on liquid fuel . I be keen to see a process start now that lead to our secure the investment we need to ensure that sustainable aviation fuel be available for our industry , and give the timeframe I be keen to see both party make a commitment to that in their manifesto . can the hon . Gentleman give I an assurance that the opposition also support this move towards develop a sustainable aviation fuel industry in this country ? I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern about what the shortly - to - appear Labour Government will be do on these matter , although I hope that he will not go about spread defeatism on his own side . as a future Labour Government , we be very concerned about the need to develop sustainable aviation fuel in a cost - effective and timely manner . we understand that this be a substantial element of the transition that will be undertake in aviation , but we have to be careful that we do not procure all the resource that might go to other thing for use in make sustainable aviation fuel , because there be many other thing that can be do with those fuel . we need a balance between the various possible candidate for what would go into sustainable aviation fuel for the future . I be pleased that the Government have also make a concession on liquid fuel heating obligation . in other area , despite have ample opportunity and time to put additional material in the Bill — indeed , the Government have put substantial amount of additional material in the Bill with our support — they have not take the opportunity to place in legislation the three test that I mention , which be why our amendment concentrate on those emission . member have be very enthusiastic in table amendment to strengthen the Bill on Report , and many of the issue raise be similar or identical to the issue we raise in Committee . I be particularly impress by the amendment table by the right hon . member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) , as well as new clause 43 , on onshore wind , table by the right hon . member for Reading West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) . there be amendment on coal , fracke , flaring and venting . amendment on a number of issue would strengthen the Bill , include new clause 47 , table by the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , which would address China , solar panel and the uyghur population . the hon . gentleman mention boiler , and a number of organisation , include Green Alliance , Action for Warm Homes , Power for People and Energy UK , have produce brief that point to how infrequently such Bills come around . there be great change in energy technology and in world event , but they be not mirror in Parliament . both side of the House should commit to not cram everything into one energy Bill every decade . give how thing be change in this sphere , Parliament should address it far more frequently than every decade . if the hon . Gentleman contain himself , he will see that we have table an amendment on low - carbon energy in home . I agree that we can not put everything in a Bill but , because of the urgency of the commitment we be make with this Bill , it be important that we get as much clarity as possible on what we be do in the Bill now , so we know where we be go and the way we be do so . have discuss those other amendment , I will now draw attention to labour ' s amendment . I hope the House will understand why we have draft they in this way and how that relate to the test I mention . on our new clause 53 , the Government say they support community and local energy . indeed , as the Minister say , the Government have put a modest amount of funding into support community energy but , as the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , who be not in her place now , say , we still do not have an understanding of how community energy can actually work . we think community energy will be an important part of the decarbonisation process . it be not one of the large , shiny thing upon which money will be lavish in large amount but , in aggregate , it will have a huge impact on decarbonise energy in this country . the Government still have not introduce arrangement that will enable local power producer to trade locally and get the proper value of their trade , which be vital to the success and certainty of these project . labour want to support local energy project practically , particularly through the " valley of death " period where the pocket of community energy be usually shallow than need for all the planning permission to run their course . with support from Great British Energy and local authority , we propose that £ 400 million a year will eventually support the important role of community and local energy in decarbonise power . if this electrical revolution be to take off , many more people will need to buy electric car and heat pump . do the hon . Gentleman have any advice for the Government on how those item can be make more popular and more affordable ? the Government and I have be in considerable discussion about precisely that point . we need to make sure we change the model of ownership of those device . we perhaps need to have a long debate about that on another occasion . my hon . friend be make an important point about new clause 53 , which stand in his name and those of his Front - Bench colleague . be not it the case at the moment that the grid — the national grid and the local distribution network — do not have a duty to positively engage with small - scale and community electricity supplier to encourage they on to the grid and instead just put they at the bottom of a list that be first come , first serve ? the new clause will start to change that approach , which be supportive and nurture in its essence . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the campaign that he may be refer to be sign up to by the Minister when he be not a Minister ; he may have some other view on that these day , but the new clause be not too far from the original document that he sign a while ago . I be go to have to make some rapid progress , so I be sorry to say that I will not be able to take any further intervention . however , I will try to get through the measure we be propose as quickly as possible , in order to allow other member who be burst to get into the debate the time to do that . our new clause 56 deal with delinke renewable and gas price . a mechanism should be in place to ensure that the dividend from renewable power cost and price can come through to customer . however , as we have see in the recent power crisis , that be not the case at the moment . gas price surge to nine time the price of renewable power at some stage during the energy crisis and be still substantially more expensive than those of renewable , but they rule the roost as far as energy price for the retail market be concern , through marginal cost pricing . we think that need to change through delinke the process and we wish to put an amendment in that would ensure that that happen , so that the benefit of renewable power can come to customer in the way that the whole House would intend to happen . new clause 57 deal with onshore wind . three minute before the Bill come to the Floor of the House , a write statement on onshore wind be make by the Minister . I have have a chance to read it quickly and it seem to I as though it still treat onshore wind as a special case and not as an ordinary case of a local infrastructure project , which should receive no well and no bad consideration than any other such project . onshore wind be essential to the decarbonisation of our energy system , but we have just let it collapse over a considerable period by , in effect , ban it . the Government be take grandmother ' s footstep back from the ban , but this be still not good enough . I be one of the architect of what the hon . Gentleman describe as a ban . he will understand that , when onshore wind be no long permit across the UK , this catalyse the offshore industry and we become a world leader in offshore wind precisely because developer then choose to go offshore . offshore wind have many advantage , not least its scale , the size of the turbine and the single point of connection to the grid . onshore wind have none of those virtue . that be remarkably like say I be encourage you to use your second car because I shoot the tyre out of your first car . the right hon . Member make a quite ridiculous statement . first , onshore wind be the cheap form of power available . secondly , it can be available for community and local energy , in the way describe early . thirdly , through CfDs , it can systemically provide a cheap power environment for the population as a whole . it be a disgrace that only two turbine have be commission in this country since February 2022 . it be a golden opportunity for decarbonisation that we be miss completely . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I say I would not , but I will . my hon . friend be be very generous . do he agree that the failure to roll out onshore wind be cost family £ 182 a year because of lack of investment ? lack of investment do indeed have a direct impact . if we go back and look at what could have be the case and look at what be the case now , there be a direct link between energy price now and the lack of development of onshore wind . our amendment , which we hope to push to a vote , would make the way that onshore wind be treat simple and straightforward : it should be treat no differently from any other local infrastructure project . there should be the same protection , safeguard and concern for people who have that local infrastructure come their way . it should not be a special case , over and above other project , which I think will produce an explosion of investment in onshore wind in future . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no . I have to make progress . new clause 61 — " National Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan ( no . 2 ) " — address another area in which the Government have set out their aspiration . the Minister have say that the Government be make progress on their aspiration to retrofit home , as set out in their national energy plan and the White Paper , " power our net zero future " . those aspiration include have all home at an EPC band c standard by 2035 and all private rent property at band b by 2030 . however , nowhere be there any plan about how we be actually go to do that or how home that be among the bad insulate in Europe can be lift to the level need by 2035 . the Government be stick with aspiration but no plan . our new clause put a plan in place . it put those aspiration into legislation and require a Government plan to bring they about , which would be another enormous win for decarbonisation . People ' s energy bill will fall , fuel poverty will be tackle and gas supply in retrofit property will reduce by perhaps 25 % . it would be a win all round . the Government have no plan . labour have a substantial plan , which have already be put forward , include a 10 - year programme to uprate and retrofit 19 million home , cost £ 6 billion per annum by the second part of the next Labour Government , with a local authority and community base get it do . that will transform the present , pretty paltry progress that have be make . admittedly , there have be good progress in some area , include the energy company obligation , the local authority delivery scheme , the home upgrade grant and other scheme , but who can forget the spectacular failure of the Government ' s green home grant a little while ago ? our new clause will transform the way that work and we want it to be add to the Bill . new clause 62 be closely associate with new clause 61 , but address the private rent sector . new clause 59 be very important . we want to see the decarbonisation of our energy , power and electricity system by 2030 . the Government ' s ambition at the moment be mostly to decarbonise the power system by 2035 , but , again , they have no plan as to how that will actually happen . they have give no indication as to what step they will take to achieve this , and they be certainly begin to fail in the implementation of carbon budget . bring forward the decarbonisation of the power system would greatly enhance that and allow we to meet our target . labour want to see the complete decarbonisation of the system by 2030 . that do involve massive uplift in the rate of progress — for example , in offshore wind by five , in solar by three , and in onshore by two — and , indeed , the development of other renewable . in that regard , I recommend that hon . member have a look at new clause 51 . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not give way again . my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) have a particularly interesting new clause on tidal range . with the right effort and the right investment , a huge acceleration of build - out can be achieve . indeed , we have set out our plan on how to do that over the next period . what we need be for that ambition and those plan to be in legislation and in the Bill now . the Minister do not give any indication in his contribution of whether the Government will move towards any of these amendment , but we hope to press some of they to a vote this afternoon . however , I have to say that we do so within the general setting that we be supportive of the Bill . we want it to succeed , but we want it to succeed with our bit add on , not least because this be the Bill that we will inherit when we be in government shortly . we will then have to do all the work that the Government have set out in the Bill . finally , let I say to those hon . member who be think of vote against our amendment that they contain the Government ' s own ambition . what we be try to do be to put the Government ' s own ambition into legislation and provide way by which it can be achieve . if hon . member decide to vote against these change this afternoon , they will , at least in some measure , be vote against their own government . I hope that they will have sufficient sense to make sure that they do not do so as far as this Bill be concern . order . as member can see , there be many people who wish to take part in this debate . I know that Alok Sharma will show self - restraint , but we will be impose a time limit to ensure that we get in as many people as we can . the debate be very time limit . the multiple vote will come at 6 o ' clock , so I ask people to show restraint even on the time limit that I impose . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I do support the overall aim of the Bill , but , in the interest of brevity , I will limit my comment to new clause 43 on onshore wind . I thank all colleague who have co - sign this new clause , which of course build on the excellent work that my right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) lead last year when try to put in place a more permissive planning regime for onshore wind . onshore wind be one of the cheap source of energy available . it be also one of the quick to deploy . get more home - grow clean energy deploy be about enhance our energy security , our climate security and our national security , all of which be totally interlinked . it be also ultimately about bring down bill . that be why onshore wind need to be a meaningful part of a diversified energy mix . we currently have 14 GW of instal onshore wind capacity across the UK with the ability to power around 12 million home . however , as we all know , due to planning rule change , since 2015 we have have a de facto ban on onshore wind . just one objection be able to defeat a planning application . frankly , that be not a sensible way for a planning process to operate . as a result , in England planning permission have be grant for just 15 wind turbine over the past five year . it be also worth point out that , have onshore wind annual build - out rate stay at the average pre - ban level , an extra 1 . 7 GW would have be add by last winter . that be the equivalent of power 1 . 5 million home for the entire winter , and it would have avoid between 2 % and 3 % of the UK ' s annual net gas import be burn in our power station . do my right hon . friend accept , on the cost argument , that we also need to build a new gas turbine station as back - up for when the wind do not blow ? we do need a diversified energy system , and I think the Minister set out all the work that be go on on nuclear , for example . however , as we drive forward for great energy security , we need to change the planning rule to allow more onshore wind . the objective of new clause 43 be to ensure a more permissive planning regime . the new clause seek to lift the current planning restriction that in effect mean that a single objection can block a development . it also seek to ensure that local community willing to take onshore wind development will receive direct community benefit . the Government have today respond to new clause 43 by bring forward a write ministerial statement on onshore wind . I thank the Government for the constructive dialogue we have have over the past day on this issue . I acknowledge that that write ministerial statement , and indeed the accompany change to the national planning policy framework , move thing forward and will help to deliver a more permissive planning regime for onshore wind . the de facto ban be lift . the statement clarify that the policy intent be not to allow very limited objection or even a single objection to ban a planning application , and it be explicit that local community willing to host onshore wind farm should directly benefit , include potentially through energy discount . that be positive , but we do need to see the Government ' s formal response to their consultation on this issue to understand the detail of the precise mechanism by which the benefit regime will work . I also welcome the fact that local plan will not be the only route to deliver more onshore wind , with more agile and target route available . of course it be now a requirement for local planning authority to support community - lead initiative for renewable and low - carbon energy . vitally , those policy change be effective today . the right hon . Gentleman talk about bill payer , but for the previous wind that be build under renewable obligation certificate , there be big profit because the price be denominate in gas . under the CfDs , money be not go to the bill payer , but to the Government — it be cream off the top . the mechanism have to change ; I applaud what he be try to say and do , but there be a missing link on how the bill payer will see a benefit , as they should . the hon . Gentleman will know that onshore wind have be back as part of the CfD process in the last couple of year . I be very happy at a future date to have a detailed discussion on that but , in the interest of time , I will move on . I understand that some people would like the planning regime for onshore wind to be even more permissive and for onshore wind to be treat like any other infrastructure . I get that , but we also have to recognise that it have be a contentious issue in the past , and it be important that we take community with we on this journey . that be why the community benefit mechanism will be so vital . frankly , people respond well to a carrot than to a stick . my right hon . friend talk about the importance of take people with we . More wind power will need more energy storage so that we can smooth out for the time when the wind be not blow . do he agree that the sort of lithium ion battery storage plant that be proliferate in our country be in need of proper permitting ? my new clause 37 , which I have be discuss with my hon . friend the Minister , will help to bring in that sort of permit and ensure that lithium ion battery storage facility be site in the right place . I certainly agree with my right hon . friend that we need more battery storage . that be be roll out and I be pleased that she have have a discussion with the Minister . in conclusion , I welcome the write ministerial statement because it move we forward . it be for that reason that we will not seek to press new clause 43 to a Division . I start by pay tribute to my predecessor in this role , my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , whose work on energy , particularly on access to clean and affordable energy , be exceptional . I base my ambition in this role on his record . I also note the Minister ' s kind remark about my hon . friend and thank he for they . I want to highlight the abject abandonment of community - own energy project in this Bill . it be patently obvious that any just transition to net zero be simply not possible if local community can not sell the energy they produce to local customer . local energy trading provide manifold improvement , include low price , protection against price shock , enhance energy security , network redundancy and a return on investment back to community . the UK Government kicking this can down the road be a hammer blow to effort to achieve a just transition , and they be do so without even try to disguise the fact . worse still , they have instead provide a paltry £ 10 million over two year — the Minister leave out the " over two year " bit — to fund feasibility study in England . that be not seedcorn funding ; it be chicken feed serve up with extra disdain for Scotland and Wales , as the UK Government have steadfastly refuse to apply Barnett consequential to this admittedly pitiful sum . fundamentally , this sop to Tory Back Benchers do not — as one of the Minister ' s Back Benchers say — remove the barrier prevent community energy scheme from sell their power locally . the Local Electricity Bill would have do that , as would amendment make to the Energy Bill have they not be remove by Ministers in Committee in July . why be this Tory Government so loth to put power in the hand of the people ? turn to nuclear , english mps maintain an endure obsession with nuclear . their total failure to concede or even rationally acknowledge the catastrophic decommissioning and clean - up cost of that energy source be , by any measure , incredible . as they drag Scotland and Wales along with they for the ride , it be almost as if those English mp , and indeed the Government , can foresee a time in the not - too - distant future when they will need to buy Scotland ' s energy rather than just take it , as they have get use to do over recent decade . Nuclear be their insurance policy against Scotland ' s independent future . new nuclear be a millstone around the neck of our net zero future , consume disproportionate cost per megawatt - hour . if we contrast nuclear with offshore wind , we see that although construction cost for nuclear continue to spiral out of control , and SMR nuclear continue not to get off the ground , the cost of offshore wind have fall by 80 % in a decade . new offshore wind project come online within the next two year will be pay about £ 45 per MWh , which be half the wholesale power price of £ 90 per MWh forecast until at least the end of the decade , and 60 % less than the £ 115 per MWh of electricity from Hinkley C nuclear power plant . tory and Labour Members alike will cry , " this be all about baseload for when the wind do not blow " — I be surprised they have not do so already . of course , that be correct ; we do need baseload , but it do not have to be nuclear . if successive Westminster Governments have invest nearly as much rhetoric and taxpayer ' money create a renewable energy mix as they have do for nuclear , we would be in a very different place . it would be a place where tidal flow and barrage scheme complement widespread impoundment , pump storage and run - of - river hydro scheme , together with green hydrogen production , battery storage , solar on every appropriate elevation of a domestic or commercial property , and timely delivery of carbon capture , usage and storage . the hon . Gentleman make a point that must be recognise and understand for the future . before Hinkley Point be commission , the question be of provide 6 GW of nuclear baseload rather than just 6 GW of baseload , and of see whether there could be a mix of green energy , as he argue , or if it would have to be nuclear energy . by prescribe the way the Government have in the past while stick to 2012 index - link CfD price , nuclear be a way to make and print money very quickly . my hon . friend be correct . over and above the self - evident environmental consequence of nuclear , the way in which this and successive Westminster government have fiscally mismanage the pursuit of nuclear leave nothing to the imagination . to continue my remark , we do not live in that place . we live here in broke , break Britain . the Bill fail the people on energy once again because it be bereft of strategy and completely lose control of cost . if we want to evidence such calamitous incompetence , we need look no far than auction round 5 , or , more specifically , the strike price therein . that price threaten to kill off construction - ready project from that auction round . at the very good , it will mean even less of the additional supply chain value land in domestic company and local worker ’ bank account , far deepen the cost of living crisis . penny wise , pound foolish . contrast that with the strategic ambition of the Scottish Government , who be invest in community by maximise the economic , supply chain and employment opportunity of onshore and offshore wind , with up to £ 1 . 4 billion of developer supply chain commitment on average across Scotland . I have see the extraordinary investment and opportunity at Montrose port in my Angus constituency with Seagreen , but we need sustained investment to win those crucial multipli effect and make the just transition a systemic reality for our community . I welcome the hon . member to his new role and pay tribute to his predecessor , the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) . the hon . Member give a whole list of reason why there would be an absence of baseload in Scotland , but I think I may have miss the point where he suggest how that baseload would be supplement in the absence of nuclear . could he clarify that ? do it include a new gas - fire power station in Peterhead with carbon capture , usage and storage ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely correct : he do miss I highlight what would replace that baseload , and I refer he to Hansard after today ' s debate . the challenge of inflation and interest rate have alter the parameter to such an extent that this Government ' s pretence that it be business as usual be breathtaking . have they not see what happen in the recent auction round in Spain or , conversely , what happen in Ireland when the Irish Government intervene to protect investment in renewable and reap the benefit and reward for their economy ? if project do slip from allocation round 5 as a result of an unrealistic strike price , where do minister think the supply chain capacity , the skilled worker and the specialist vessel will go ? they will not wait around here , wait for the Department to get its sum right — they will be off to the US and the EU to access commercially cogent incentive package such as those find in the Inflation Reduction Act or the EU ' s Net - Zero Industry Act . the stake could not be high for both net zero commitment and UK energy price . I be proud that the SNP have work to protect people from the bad effect of the Westminster cost of live crisis with our amendment to the Bill , with step that would protect the next phase of contract for difference project within AR5 , properly provide for a comprehensive and complementary mix of energy storage solution , advance local supply right and work towards support our most vulnerable with the development of a social tariff , especially for those with high energy use cause by medical condition . I be pleased that the SNP ' s new clause 39 will be put to a vote this evening , and I urge all member to support that provision , which , while modest in scope , would have profoundly positive effect on many in our rural constituency who live off the grid and have to heat their home through liquid fuel . rise — Order . before the hon . Gentleman make his intervention , I inform the House that there will be a four - minute time limit on Back Benchers introduce from the start . the hon . Gentleman mention a small issue that make a big difference . the energy bill support scheme , which be very harsh , end far too soon and have cause an awful lot of problem . this have be cover by Radio 4 , and people have write letter about it — I have a letter here from Stourport , in the constituency of the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , who be a member of my Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . People the length and breadth of the UK be feel the harshness of the Government ' s penny - pinch and tight deadline , and those who live in caravan park or on boat be be especially hammer by this . this government should listen and make a difference . one of the big thing affect people watch this debate today be that they be not get that £ 400 for the last year . I agree entirely , and I echo the call from my Scottish National party Westminster leader , my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , who want to see the £ 400 support package reintroduce . the idea that the pressure on household budget from energy price have somehow go away be for the bird . energy security be not some abstract area of Government policy , nor be the purchase of energy a discretionary one for home and business in our constituency . fail to legislate and plan strategically in this area , as Westminster have do in perpetuity , be the very reason people be face the choice between heating and eat . it be the same reason that businesse across these island have close their door due to energy cost . the exorbitant cost of energy in the UK be a function of supply - side constraint , and this Government have compound that through incompetence , inaction , lack of ambition , penny - wise , pound - foolish misadventure and their obsession with nuclear . just imagine how much more perilous the situation for energy consumer in England would be if they never have Scotland ' s energy powerhouse to shore up this Government ' s incompetence and spaffe money on nuclear left , right and centre . this Bill be an opportunity to make up lose ground and catch up with function union — the United States and the European Union — but as usual , the dysfunctional United Kingdom get it wrong again , and it be ordinary taxpayer and bill payer who will pick up the piece and pay the cost . there be one reason why household in energy - rich Scotland be face fuel poverty and haemorrhage household budget on energy cost , and it be sit in this Chamber : the UK Government . I remind member of the four - minute limit . a core pillar of this Bill be the delivery of a safe , secure and resilient UK energy system , but no energy system can be safe and secure when it risk undermine our food security and contravene our value by use force labour throughout its supply chain . we live in a contested world , and there be no doubt that energy security be one of the great challenge of our time , but we can have no security when our energy system be riddle with force labour from a hostile state . the use of force labour — specifically , Uyghur force labour — in supply chain not only contradict our ethical and moral value , but undermine our fight for human right across the globe . we can not go green on Uyghur blood - red labour . beyond the moral , there be serious commercial and security risk . british and international manufacturer that do not use slave labour — that abide by our modern slavery law — be be price out and undercut by chinese supplier that do not care . that contravene all notion of fair market competition and punish those who play by the rule , support only the communist People ' s Republic of China state - back enterprise . we be unnecessarily undermine our security when we do not tackle this problem . turn to the two new clause that I table , I will not move new clause 48 , but I will make the point that it be about move to a rooftop - first strategy . we must make sure that we stop target the good and most versatile land . at my last count , 77 solar plant be currently propose in Lincolnshire and border county , total 38 , 000 acre of good arable land . that be wrong , but as I say , I will not move the new clause . my hon . friend be entirely right in her argument , but this be not just about the overall number of site . individual project take up over 3 , 500 acre in my constituency , industrialise a piece of beautiful english countryside and destroy the life of five village . in fact , if anything , my hon . friend ' s clause do not go far enough . I thank my right hon . friend , who as always make very valid point . in my own constituency , one village will be 95 % encircle by solar that will be 13 foot high , in one of the area that produce the great food in our country . these solar farm make absolutely no sense to people when we be in a food security crisis , but also , tenant farmer be be oust . the landowner often live mile and mile away and could not give two hoot about the land they be sell off , and it do not work . we need a really strong steer from Government , which we be promise in our prime ministerial leadership campaign last year . my hon . friend be absolutely right : farmer want to conserve and to grow the food of this nation . they do not want to turn to solar , which landowner be often do . far to the intervention make by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , meanwhile , solar on building be absent . one drive around the country and see huge warehouse , commercial building and office block with not a solar panel to be see . those panel be go on to land that should be grow food to produce the food security that this country need . food security and energy security combine mean national resilience . I absolutely agree . that be why I still urge the Government to bring forward a strategy on rooftop solar — they can do so . turn to new clause 47 , the UK have tough modern slavery law . it be evident that we want to do something about that issue , but we can not outsource the protection of human right . there be developer who utilise force labour in their supply chain — who not only violate our ethical and moral value but , as I say , pose a commercial risk . we can not be reliant on Uyghur slave labour . Alan Crawford and Laura Murphy recently release landmark report into the use of Uyghur force labour in solar supply chain . they have make very clear that across the UK , there be just too much . some 40 % of all solar that be build in the UK be affect , and 45 % of all polysilicon and solar panel around the world come from Xinjiang — they be make with slave labour . it be shocking to see that five page of the recent report from Sheffield Hallam be dedicate to just one supplier , Canadian Solar , which be plan to build in this country and be a serial applicant . these same company be tariff dodge repeatedly and try to hide the reality of what they be do . my new clause 47 be very straightforward : it seek to increase transparency . when a Minister make a decision on a proposal of this magnitude , they should have full sight of whether there be force slave labour within the application . currently , a Minister make a decision on a nationally significant infrastructure project have no idea if the vast majority of the product to be put on british soil will be make with slave labour . I hope this will deter these company and force they to finally choose to produce polysilicon without slave labour . there be no onus on the Government , there be no cost implication for they and I be not force their ; I be ask for transparency , not least give that the US and the EU have both bring forward enormous Bills that deal with force Uyghur labour in their country or their area of influence . we have do nothing , and the reality be that we never walk the walk , but just talk the talk when it come to the Uyghur . I can not think of one piece of legislation that this Government have bring forward since my election that deal with uyghur slave labour , yet we go to Beijing and then claim that we have raise it , base on no reality . unfortunately , I have hear absolutely nothing today to reassure I that we genuinely want to deal with this , and that we recognise that it be not just in solar but across the energy footprint and be not just in China but in other place where component be make with slave labour . therefore , at the moment I be minded to press the new clause to make sure that we finally deal with the reality of what we be face and get some transparency within the system for our Ministers . the hon . Member will have our full support if she do press the new clause . we should add another argument , which be that the country that use force labour , especially China , have a commercial advantage , and we be go to find ourselves dependent upon they for energy source in the future . I could not agree more with the right hon . Gentleman . that be the exactly the point I would make . the new clause speak for itself : this be about transparency and finally deal with the forced labour be impose on our countryside . the path we choose today will define not just define our value but the legacy that we leave for future generation and for our child . I hope the House will make the right choice . I rise to speak in support of new clause 51 , table in my name , concern tidal range power . in 1966 , the world ' s first ever tidal power station become operational on the Rance river in Brittany . More than 50 year later , the station be less than halfway through its predict lifespan of 120 year , and be continue to generate an annual output of approximately 600 GWh of clean energy . since then , the station have be surpass in scale and generating capacity by the Sihwa Lake tidal power station in South Korea . the proven success of these scheme over many decade demonstrate the enormous potential of tidal range generation as a renewable , indigenous source of net zero energy . when confront by the existential challenge of climate collapse and the necessity of decarbonise our energy system , as well as the need to guarantee our energy security in an increasingly volatile global energy market , I believe we now need to be look with new urgency at the role that tidal range generation have to play in the United Kingdom ' s future energy mix . the UK , more than any other country in the world , be uniquely position to harness the power of our tide . we have the second high tidal range in the world , and half of all of Europe ' s tidal energy capacity be find in Britain . already well develop plan for tidal range project across the west coast promise to mobilise and deliver 10 GW of net zero energy , with the potential for 10 GW of additional capacity . in Merseyside alone , the much anticipated Mersey tidal power project could generate enough energy to power 1 million home , yet we have consistently fail to harness the awesome power of our tide . while there have be some welcome progress in the development of small tidal stream technology in recent year , lead to tidal stream ' s inclusion in the fourth allocation of the contract for difference scheme , the possibility of large - scale tidal range generation have be largely ignore by the Government since the decision in 2018 by the then Business Secretary to deny funding for the Swansea tidal lagoon . there be only pass mention of tidal in last year ' s energy security strategy , and tidal range be not cover by this Bill . it have be exclude entirely from the national policy statement on energy infrastructure project . I be assure that this situation will be rectify when the revise NPS for energy , EN - 1 , be publish later this year . the aim of my amendment be simple : it seek to establish funding for an independent and evidence - lead study into the opportunity and risk of tidal range generation as the vital first step towards establish investor and Government confidence in this technology . this study be a central task of the British Hydropower Association , which represent the interest of the UK hydropow community . the study would consider the role of tidal range generation in the UK ' s future energy mix and the role that tidal range , as a predictable and reliable energy source , have to play in meet our energy need at time when seasonal factor and weather system interrupt supply from solar and wind . the study would also consider how tidal range project in close proximity to major population centre include Merseyside and Bristol can help we overcome the transmission and supply issue that continue to plague our energy grid , which constitute in the view of many expert the big stumbling block to the decarbonisation of our energy system . it would also take a whole - system approach to consider how we should well fund new tidal range project . the most often cite barrier to the development of tidal range installation be the cost of their construction , but with operation lifespan of a century or more , their cost be more comparable to that of new nuclear and even offshore wind . it be vital that we look seriously at how other form of financing , include the regulated asset base model recently apply to new nuclear , can help we in kick - start tidal range generation . I support Government new clause 63 and welcome their bring it forward . I have table amendment 8 and new clause 40 and 50 , each of which in different way seek to give the Government the power they need to extend the exist renewable transport fuel obligation so that it might cover domestic heating fuel for off - grid property . government new clause 63 achieve that , create the same power by replicate section 124 of the Energy Act 2004 , and therefore I will not press my amendment or new clause to a Division . I thank the Minister for the work he have put in on this ; we have discuss it many time and I know he have work hard to get a cross - government consensus . I also welcome the Minister ' s commitment to a consultation . some member have question the timing of it , but we all have to be realistic about how long these thing can take and the fact that a consultation need to be do properly , and we should therefore accept in good faith the undertaking he have give at the Dispatch Box today . so I support that . I want to address a point raise early by the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) and reassure he that I do not hang he out to dry . I be very conscious of the fact that Northern Ireland have 400 , 000 home that be off the gas grid , and when discuss the Government new clause proposal last week , I highlight the fact that Northern Ireland be a special case . the Minister have give an undertaking that conversation be continue with official in Northern Ireland , and I hope we can find a resolution to that issue . my final point be not really a matter for today ' s Bill : the associated issue of the propose ban on replacement boiler for off - grid home currently propose for 2026 . I know that the Government will be look at that — it be a consequential consideration follow an amendment they have put forward today — and I look forward to hear what Ministers will have to say about it in due course . I rise to speak in support of new clause 35 . my amendment be about fund for decarbonise home and I hope Members across the House will agree that it be badly need . our home be among the least energy - efficient in Europe and heat they account for 14 % of all UK carbon emission . if we do not retrofit around 29 million exist home in the UK we will not be able to reach net zero by 2050 . this be a mammoth task , so we must act now . however , decarbonise housing be not just about tackle the climate crisis : million of people be live in freeze home that be expensive to heat , leave at the mercy of the volatile gas market . poor - quality housing be cost people their health and even their life . retrofit home would reduce bill , make home safe and improve people ' s quality of life . it would also create new job in every part of the country , help build the green economy we so desperately need . the Climate Change Committee have find that people accept the need to make change to their home , but they need well - design policy to help they to act . the big barrier for many will be the up - front cost . the Government have funding to retrofit the home of people on low income , and that be available through the social housing decarbonisation fund and the sustainable warmth fund , but the amount on offer just be not enough , particularly give the rise labour and material cost . in fact , last year , the number of government - fund energy efficiency measure instal in UK home drop by half , year on year . it be now a shocking 97 % below 2012 level . if the Government have not cut energy efficiency support in 2013 , just imagine how many more people might have spend last winter in a comfortable home and how many few family would have have to choose between heating and eat . short - sighted Tory cut have cost we a decade in a fight we can not afford to lose . we need long - term consistent funding and a clear road map of how the decarbonisation of housing will be achieve . local authority be uniquely place to understand the need of their area and to target scheme where they can provide the most benefit . in Nottingham , against the odd , more than 4 , 000 home have be retrofit by the city council in the past decade . just imagine what more could be achieve by council across the country with long - term predictable funding for decarbonise home . the amendment be call for the Government to undertake an assessment of the benefit of provide this funding to local authority . I hope the House will invest in our future by support new clause 35 . I suppose that the volume of my amendment probably speak for itself , but I have a great interest in this Bill . I be aware of the limitation of time this afternoon , so I will keep my observation to the two area that I think be fundamentally important . I absolutely despise this Bill . I have be in this House for eight year , and I have rarely see a Bill of such nature . it be 426 page , and it have attract 146 page of amendment . that mean it have a lot of interest , but I want to discuss two of the amendment that I have table . first , amendment 50 relate to clause 152 ( 4 ) and the hydrogen grid conversion trial . the clause seek to amend the Gas Act 1986 , and I be particularly concern by subsection ( 4 ) , which increase the right and power available to unknown new inspector . it include the " power to enter premise in the trial location for the purpose of inspect anything on the premise , or carry out any test on the premise , in preparation for or otherwise in connection with the trial . " my amendment , which I table with other , would interpose at least a magistrate — a justice of the peace — in that proposal before we start enter people ' s premise . we accept that in other energy matter . for example , to have a meter change , it have to go through a magistrate court . I know that well , as I use to sit as one . clause 248 cause I the most gross concern . it be the reason that I hope an amendment can be accept , although I know it be not select by Mr Speaker . the clause be title " Sanctions " , and I suppose it do what it say on the tin . subsection ( 4 ) state : " energy performance regulation " — which be unknown and may be put into place in this House in the future by statutory instrument — " may provide for the imposition of civil penalty by enforcement authority " for a penalty of up to £ 15 , 000 for not comply with those regulation . be that not bad enough , all in this House should sit up and take notice of subsection ( 3 ) — I know it be a big Bill . it state that energy performance regulation , which be as yet unknown , but be available to be put on the statute book in the future by statutory instrument , " may provide for the creation of criminal offence " in relation to various case , with imprisonment for a term of up to 12 month . I do not know about other member in the House , but I rather like " the Shawshank Redemption " . it be a great film . I can imagine the old lag in the future have a chat about why they be in prison . one might say , " I ' ve do benefit fraud — £ 50 , 000 - worth — and I get six month . " another might say , " I have dangerous driving cause an injury — 8 month . " the businessman talk to they will say , " I have a very good business with 20 people work for I in a factory . they have all be put out of work . my business have close and my family be on the street . " the other will say , " what on earth do you do , sir ? " and he will say , " I infringe an energy performance certificate , and I get 12 month . " do the hon . Member agree that that could be for something as simple as rent out premise without have show the EPC for they ? it be a ridiculous situation . my right hon . friend have it exactly right . hence I feel that when we in this place be create criminal penalty that could put our fellow citizen in prison for 12 month for an unknown offence of the future relate to net zero , we have a duty to discuss they properly . this must be the first time we be potentially criminalise people in this country for not adhere to the new code of net zero . we should not be do it lightly . we should be do it carefully and with consideration . it should not be do by statutory instrument . I thank my hon . friend for highlight this issue to all in the House . I hope that the Government will take urgent action to get rid of it , because it be completely unacceptable . it also show how little time we have to discuss fundamental issue . my right hon . friend have put his finger exactly on the pulse . this be a substantial Bill . I say to the Minister that I hope the Government will strip out criminal penalty for not adhere to unknown net zero certification , epc and all the rest of it in the future for something as simple as not comply with some of these net zero regulation . this be really serious . I hope that when the Bill return to the other end of the Palace , consideration can be give to strip out such proposal . I could have go on at huge length this afternoon . I table many amendment because these be overweene power try to push and nudge we and to ban thing . all I can imagine be that the chinese embassy will be look at the Bill with great enthusiasm , as it will drive even more of our high - energy business offshore . China will be pleased that it will be able to sell we more solar panel and wind turbine base on its steel , produce on the back of very cheap coal power . that be what we be do here : drive our high - energy business offshore . this be not a recipe for energy security ; this be a recipe for energy disaster . I could talk at length about what be wrong with the net zero proposal ban car , ban oil boiler , ban this and ban that . that be not what we do as conservative . we actually allow freedom . we allow the market to decide . the Bill go in the wrong direction . there be some element of the Bill to commend , not least the net zero duty on Ofgem , but overall it fail to deliver the scale of ambition we need or to set out a vision of an energy system free not just from Putin ' s influence but from expensive and pollute oil and gas in their entirety . my amendment would address that fail . new clause 29 would prohibit the approval of new oil and gas field development and the issuing of new oil and gas exploration and production licence . I be sure that the Minister will seek to paint the new clause as somehow incredibly radical and the policy of just stop Oil , pretend that it would recklessly turn off the tap tomorrow . he will no doubt trot out the same tired line about a quarter of the UK ' s energy continue to come from oil and gas in 2050 . in reality , the new clause be far from radical . it would simply do what the science tell we be necessary if we be to secure a liveable future for ourselves and our child and rule out any new oil and gas licence . in do so , it would follow the advice of expert include the Climate Change Committee , which in its late report be clear : " expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with Net Zero . " it acknowledge that while the UK will continue to need some oil and gas until the target be meet , " this do not in itself justify the development of … North Sea field . " yet rather than heed that warning , just one month later we have the former Secretary of State vow to max out the North sea ' s remain oil and gas reserve . the Government re - announce 100 new licence and it be not rule out the prospect of Rosebank . however hard they try to obfuscate and evade , Ministers can not deny the fact that , without additional abatement , the project co2 emission from exist fossil fuel infrastructure would already exceed the remain carbon budget for a safe climate . any oil and gas extract from the North sea belong not to we but to multinational company , which will sell it to the high bidder on the global market . the majority of fossil fuel project in the pipeline be for oil , not gas , and will do nothing to boost energy security , give we currently export 80 % of the oil that we extract . new clause 30 , which tackle head - on the frankly obscene duty to maximise the economic recovery of petroleum from the North sea , be an amendment that I would like to press to a vote . it be a legal requirement for company to pump every last drop of oil and gas while the world around they burn . in the time of climate emergency , that duty have no place on our statute book . the clause would define a new principal objective under the Petroleum Act 1998 that respond to the escalate climate crisis , but which also support a new positive vision for the North sea . although it would require the phasing down of petroleum in line with the UK ' s climate target , it would also facilitate a just transition for oil and gas worker and community and , crucially , would require they to be consult in the process . I turn to renewable . new clause 31 would require the installation of solar panel on the roof of all new home and , crucially , require all new housing development to be plan to maximise solar gain , thereby unleash a rooftop revolution to put power into the hand of household . in the remain time , let I quickly underline new clause 33 , which would require the Secretary of State to publish an energy demand reduction delivery plan . the Bill before we focus almost exclusively on supply , yet demand reduction be essential for our energy security and the transition beyond fossil fuel . the more energy we use , the hard and more expensive it become to decarbonise our supply . that be why I be very happy to support the amendment table by the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , who make a strong and impassioned speech in favour of energy efficiency and make sure that we can keep people warm in their home . I also support the Scottish National party ' s statement on nuclear power , with which I wholeheartedly agree . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the rest of the world have wake up to the reality that the energy transition be here to stay . investment in fossil fuel be reduce at such a rate that , while 10 year ago capital investment in oil be six time that of solar power , this year for the first time solar receive more investment than oil . last year , UK renewable power generate more electricity than fossil fuel . the cost of those technology fall fast than ever predict , with electricity production from renewable nine time cheap than from gas . market and investor across the world recognise that net zero be the future . today we can only help or hinder that future , but we can not stop it . the energy transition be an economic reality that , as legislator , we can either speed up , ensure that the UK benefit from the economic opportunity and investment that can be ours if we so choose , or we can slow it down . to do so — to delay and hinder the transition — would merely cause the UK catastrophic economic self - harm . investment will go elsewhere . company will locate elsewhere . job will be create not here , but elsewhere . as legislator , this be the choice we face : net zero and our economic future , or not zero with increase cost and a loss of growth that will never come this way again . for that reason , I support the Bill , which seek to maintain progress in the energy transition . however , we can and should go far . yes , we must expand our use of renewable and clean energy , but the reality be that the UK should commit to phase out fossil fuel . we do not need new oil and gas field , which will only become strand asset far soon than we think . we do not need new oil and gas exploration licence for fossil fuel that be not ours to keep — as the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) make clear — but be sell on international market and be rapidly lose market share and demand . the truth be that , if we be truly serious about tackle climate change and deliver a green industrial revolution in the UK , focus our finite investment , workforce and time on the energy transition , there be no place for new oil and gas field or new coalmine . none of my amendment can be consider radical . legislate to prevent the opening of new company simply maintain a commitment that the UK seek to make to the rest of the world at COP26 . legislation to remove coal - fire electricity production from the grid simply put into law a commitment that the Government have make to the ending of coal - fire generation by the end of 2024 . legislate to leave the energy charter treaty , which penalise nation for not maintain investment in fossil fuel , simply ensure the UK follow the rest of Europe in do so . legislate to ban gas flaring and venting by 2025 , which be responsible for methane emission that be 54 time more powerful than carbon dioxide , simply bring forward a commitment from 2030 , and be something that Norway have have in place since 1971 . and legislate to establish an independent body to advise on when to end new oil and gas licensing in the UK seek to depoliticise an issue on which we need to find a responsible consensus that can be support cross - party , for it be too important to seek to divide and play politic with . tonight , in that spirit of cross - party collaboration and know that this be too important to get wrong or to fall short , I too be willing to back any amendment that I believe will deliver the energy transition more effectively . I hope all member across this House will consider do the same . I would like to speak briefly to new clause 36 , table in my name . new clause 36 ask — no , implore — this House to consider a national energy guarantee , which be also know as a rise block tariff combine with a social tariff . it be a system of energy pricing that show that social and environmental goal can be advanced together . it really do embody a green new deal in action . there be some in this House who claim that tackle the cost of live crisis and the climate crisis be a zero - sum game ; that we can only do one or the other . the amendment blow a hole right through that falsehood . the reality of the current system in use by the Government be that too many people — million of they and grow — be fall into fuel poverty . it be a system that simply be not fit for purpose . let we be clear . high energy price be not a blip . they be here to stay . research from Cornwall Insight show that energy price will remain " significantly above the five year pre - 2021 historic average " until at least the end of the decade . even though Ofgem ' s price cap will come down in October , the average bill will still be nearly double what it be in 2021 , before price soar . million of household will pay more this winter , give the Government ' s energy assistance scheme have end for most . up and down the UK , energy debt be soar . Citizens Advice report that nearly 8 million people borrow to pay their bill in the first six month of this year . a quarter of people say that their energy bill be the cost they be most worried about . in my own city of Norwich , the rate of report fuel debt have increase by a staggering 300 % . yet by subsidise the unit price , the Government ' s energy price guarantee disproportionately benefit well - off household and do nothing to incentivise energy demand reduction and decarbonisation . the national energy guarantee will ensure that everyone can afford the essential energy they need , while cut carbon . here be how it work . everyone get a free energy allowance that cover 50 % of essential need . household with high need , such as those with child or disabled resident , would get a large allowance . the next 50 % of energy use be charge at a reduce rate , match to 2021 price . beyond that , a carbon - bust premium tariff kick in . the result be that around 80 % of we will have low bill , while wealthy high - energy user will pay more but can reduce their bill by instal energy - save measure such as insulation . in one fell swoop , we will have protect essential energy need , reduce bill and incentivise a ramping up of decarbonisation of our housing sector — crucial if we be to meet our net zero commitment . I urge and implore the House to support new clause 36 . in the interest of time , I will limit my remark to carbon capture and storage , and the impact of offshore wind on other commercial activity at sea , specifically fish . if I have time at the end , I will talk about hydrogen and maybe even the future of oil and gas . I welcome the announcement on 31 July by the Prime Minister in my constituency confirm the Acorn CCS and hydrogen project ; that will mean that four ccus cluster will be operational by the end of the decade . the scottish cluster be particularly crucial for my constituency of Banff and Buchan , as well as the whole of Scotland , not just for the estimate 21 , 000 job the project be predict to support but to enable the construction of a new CCS power station at Peterhead . that power station will replace the exist one , which be currently the only dispatchable thermal power station north of Leeds . it will be critical be provide stable baseload in support of intermittent renewable source of energy , and will do so in a way that be 95 % emission - free . again in the interest of time , I be not go to speak about every single amendment that I table , but I hope the Minister will bear with I and perhaps respond to the follow question . in respect of clause 2 , which deal with licensable activity and their prohibition , can he clarify whether , or why , an economic licence would be require specifically over and above the geological storage licence that would be grant under the exist regulatory regime , namely the Storage of Carbon Dioxide ( Licensing etc . ) regulation 2010 ? will private operator be able to develop merchant model in competitive transport and / or storage market in the long term ? as the Minister will know , the UK have about a third of Europe ' s entire offshore carbon dioxide storage potential undersea , roughly equal to that of all the other EU state combine . only Norway have slightly more than the UK in the North sea . this enormous potential to offer CO2 storage service to european and other country present an opportunity for the UK to become a global leader in CCUS , and accelerate the global effort to prevent co2 emission . how will cross - border transport and geological storage of carbon dioxide be enable to develop in time , without have to rely on the granting of exemption to allow private network to develop ? can the Minister also confirm that it will be possible to facilitate transportation by ship , and any other mean of transport other than pipeline , through regulation , and that that be cover adequately by clause 128 ( 1 ) ( a ) ? I see he nod . finally , may I raise the subject of offshore wind ? the fishing industry understand that energy security matter , and that offshore wind have an important part to play in the overall energy mix , but food security matter too . the Minister will be aware of study which have show that up to half our sea could be lose to fishing owe to other activity , include offshore wind . academic study carry out by Heriot - Watt University , among other , have show the impact that electromagnetic field from subsea cable have have on the migration , growth and development — include abnormality — of crab and lobster . the Energy Bill already make provision for the principle of a levy to address the environmental impact of these new wind farm , which be absolutely right and proper , so what consideration — include engagement with devolved administration , as require — have be give , or could be give , to the business , industry and coastal community that will inevitably be impact by offshore wind operation ? last month , the think - tank onward publish a compelling paper argue for statutory payment , from developer , to be make to community where — if and when — onshore wind be develop . if that principle be fair , payment for actual loss of earning to other marine business from offshore development be even more compelling as a principle . I be aware of the various voluntary code and guidance that be available , but they have so far prove to be insufficient . if the Minister be unable to respond to that last question today , will he agree to meet I , and representative from the fishing industry , to discuss how good to embed a fair and equitable principle in Government action , that would come at no cost to his Majesty ' s Treasury ? the UK have a responsibility to deliver an effective net zero strategy . this Energy Bill provide a chance to ensure that the Government ' s own climate commitment could be meet . some part of the Bill be welcome , but as it stand , it present we with many miss opportunity . the Liberal Democrats fully support the establishment of the independent system operator , and I be pleased that the Government have finally listen and give Ofgem a net zero duty . however , I be disappointed that the Government remove sensible amendment in Committee , such as the amendment to ban new coalmine , and I strongly support new clause 2 . let I now focus on the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 11 , 12 , 15 , 24 and 28 . the aim of new clause 28 be to ban fracke permanently . fracked fuel be a fossil fuel ; it harden our reliance on expensive gas , and it fly in the face of our net zero commitment . the Government ' s own expert have say that the seismic activity cause by hydraulic fracking be not safe . it be incomprehensible that the Government ever consider lift the ban , and it cause huge anxiety among community across the country . that must never happen again . last year , Shell forcibly instal prepayment meter in more than 4 , 000 home , while make £ 32 billion in profit . those on prepayment meter typically spend about £ 130 a year more than direct debit customer . why be so many vulnerable people force into this ? the Government must support my new clause 15 to prohibit the installation of new prepayment meter unless consumer explicitly request they . Solar be one of the cheap form of energy , and again it be incomprehensible that this government do not give it the support that it deserve . the Climate Change Committee say that UK solar power deployment be significantly behind the Government ' s target of 70 GW by 2035 . the smart export guarantee should incentivise household to invest in solar panel by allow they to sell the excess electricity produce back to the grid . however , under the current system it will take householder decade to break even and this will not incentivise solar investment . our liberal Democrat new clause 11 aim to enhance the reward under the smart export guarantee . renewable energy production must benefit the community where it be base . community energy project have the potential to power 2 . 2 million home and save 2 . 5 million tonne of co2 every year . however , the barrier to become a licensed supplier mean that community energy project currently can not sell directly to local customer . the amendment to establish local energy supply agree in the other place would have rectify this . why do the Government remove that important amendment ? on my last amendment , we need to reduce more than just carbon emission to fight global warming . methane have 80 time the warm effect of co2 and account for 13 % of global greenhouse gas emission . the UK sign the global pledge to cut methane level by 30 % but the Government have show little interest in meet this . flare happen during oil and gas extraction when methane and other hydrocarbon be burn . venting be the release of uncombusted methane and other hydrocarbon . the International Energy Agency say that UK oil and gas operator could reduce methane emission by 72 % through tackle flaring , venting and leak . new clause 12 would prohibit the flaring and venting of methane by oil and gas installation . it would require monthly leak detection and repair inspection to reduce fugitive methane emission ; a measurement , reporting and verification process to quantify methane emission ; and all equipment to be update to alternative zero or low - emission and low - maintenance version . my new clause have cross - party support . I thank all member who have support it and the Clean Air Task Force for help to develop it , and I urge all member of the House to support it . in the short time I have , may I introduce a slight note of caution ? I be impress by the almost tiggerish performance by the Minister — he be very persuasive on this Bill — but what concern I be what be guide Government policy and , dare I say it , the policy of many in this House . the Climate Change Act 2008 , and the further legislation in 2019 when our government increase the cut in carbon emission to 100 % by 2050 , introduce target that in my humble opinion be not really think through . the practical consequence have not be think through , and they be become more and more evident today as we discuss these difficult issue . do not let I mislead people in the House . I , like everyone here , want to break away from fossil fuel and have clean air . the green revolution be come , as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingswood ( Chris Skidmore ) say , but we have to be careful not to bring it in so quickly that it be not available , it be not affordable and , when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , it do not work . strategically , we be an island nation and we have to keep the light on . our duty as MPs be to say to our constituent , " I can guarantee that when you go to your light switch or to make a cup of tea or cook a meal , the power will be there to do all that , and to drive your car from a to b . " at the moment there be a great drive for electric car , but they be expensive and the plug - in point and investment be nowhere near ready for that revolution . there be also many question about where the battery and the resource for they will come from . we have already hear from my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) about the slave labour that apply to many part of the battery industry . we be now on our fourth carbon budget — I do not know whether people know that — run from 2023 to 2027 , and the Government be be guide by that . the Climate Change Committee advise on the carbon budget , and the Government can be legally challenge once it be in place . the budget be set for five year , so the question now be : what about our democracy ? in my humble opinion , we be debate these crucial issue for probably the first time . it be push through in 2008 and 2018 , and we be now face the consequence of those decision . if we have to fall back on the court to decide on the policy we make in this place , we can recall the anxiety and grief that that cause on the Brexit issue . in my view , that be completely unacceptable . there be three consequence : in 18 month ' time , no new house will be fit with a gas boiler ; in seven year ' time , petrol car will be illegal ; and in 12 year ' time , people will not be able to replace their boiler like for like . be it not the case that , after car battery expire , most of they end up in landfill ? this be another significant problem we need to take stock of when these issue be consider . it be . I have read many article , not least by Mr Bean who , as we know , be a car expert . he write a very good article in the Guardian about why we be not quite ready for battery car . if my wife or daughter be travel from a to b , I want she to get there safely , as she can in a petrol or diesel car , without have to wait in a petrol section for some minute to recharge her car , which then take half an hour or so . our action have consequence , and I urge the Government to think this through very carefully . we can not impoverish our country to meet what I would call , in some case , an almost cultish policy to turn this country into something we can not afford . when we can afford it , and when it work , that be when we should adopt all these policy . I urge caution as the Government go forward . I declare an interest , as my husband be the company secretary of Sheffield Renewables , a community benefit society that fund , develop , own and operate renewable energy system in Sheffield . I rise to speak in support of a number of amendment that would be vital addition to the Bill . it be a pleasure to sit on the Public Bill Committee to debate , at great length , many of the issue that have be raise today . I still feel the Bill be miss its intended purpose , as the Government put it , to " deliver a clean , more affordable and more secure energy system for the long term . " we be in a climate and nature emergency , and we be now see its effect . we be also face the bad cost of living crisis in decade . although I be pleased the Minister have listen to member on both side of the House on the hydrogen levy , there be still a lot more to do . the Bill could have be our opportunity to tackle these issue head on , transition away from climate - wreck fossil fuel while make energy affordable for everyone . sadly , in its current form , it fail on those front . first and foremost , the Bill will fail to make energy more affordable for my constituent . National Energy Action have warn that 6 . 3 million household could be trap in fuel poverty this winter , and by 2024 some household will face spend up to a quarter of their income on energy bill . we need to overhaul our broken energy pricing system , not have more tinker around the edge . I be proud to support new clause 36 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , which would introduce a national energy guarantee . this idea need to be consider , as we need to make sure that the burden of the transition do not fall on those who be least able to meet it . secondly and shockingly , the Bill fail to deliver any energy efficiency measure . there be nothing about how we will achieve the target that have be set . the late CCC report be clear that the Government need to rapidly scale up and accelerate energy efficiency to stand any hope of meet legally bind decarbonisation target . obviously , the green energy be energy that be not use , and the more we can do to reduce the need for energy in poor - quality housing the well . new clause 33 and 35 aim to correct the current position by make it a legal requirement for the Government to produce an energy demand reduction plan and provide local authority with funding for the decarbonisation of home . I thank the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) and my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) for table those new clause , and I urge the Government to support they . finally , the Bill fail to decarbonise at speed and scale . again , the late CCC report could not be clear : " expansion of fossil fuel production be not in line with Net Zero " . new clause 2 and 29 would prohibit coalmine and new oil and gas respectively . new clause 30 would phase down UK petroleum , and new clause 59 would decarbonise electricity supply by 2030 . they could and should have be central pillar of the Bill . they be about how we can transform our energy system and meet labour ' s ambitious plan to be a green energy superpower by 2030 . however , the Government have remove many new clause that be win in the Lords — for example , the one on ban new coalmine — and Ministers be refuse to support any such measure today . instead , they wait until mp go home over the summer to give the green light to hundred of new North sea oil and gas licence , without proper scrutiny , in a damn indictment of this Government ' s record on climate action . those be not the only amendment that would help to raise the ambition in this Bill that the Government have remove . finally , I wish to mention the importance of new clause 7 . the treaty that have be outline be hold we back and we need to be on the front foot with this . I hope that Ministers will reconsider whether or not we should be part of this treaty in the future . this be a great Bill and I congratulate the Government as it take we a huge step forward . back in 2015 , when I believe the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) be the shadow Energy Minister , I be Energy Minister and we announce we be take coal off the system by 2025 . I recall that at that time the whole world be up in arm , say , " oh no , the light will go out . this will never happen . " yet by 2020 coal be almost off the system and today there be hardly ever any use of coal . that demonstrate what can happen when a Government set a direction of travel , put the funding behind it and let business and investor get on with it . it be a huge accolade for a Conservative Government , who then stand aside and let private investment come in . it be time that we commit ourselves to build new nuclear baseload , as that be vital . we can be proud of our achievement on offshore wind and the commitment now to carbon capture , usage and storage — that have be too long in come but I be pleased to see it . time be tight , but I wish to refer to my new clause 60 , which call for a specific problem to be tackle in a specific way . we all have major concern in our constituency , where community do not wish to see huge electricity pylon , great big wind turbine and great big industrial site relate to energy in their area . yet we know that we need new onshore wind , lot of solar and lot of electricity pylon . my new clause propose to make it much easy to build the 600 km of new electricity cabling and pylon that we need by 2030 to meet our power decarbonisation target alongside major road and rail route . as thing stand , community understandably object to these huge piece of kit go through their area , and then these thing get delay and delay . in the past eight or so year , we have build only about 30 km of new pylon but we need about 600 km by 2030 . we need to get our skate on . the Government can help by make it much easy for planning — I completely agree with the point the right hon . Lady be make . do she agree that government across the UK — transmission infrastructure be a matter where the Welsh Government have competence — should be look at cable ploughing technology as a way forward ? it enable " undergrounding " at a far cheap cost and in a far more environmental way than traditional undergrounding . I have a lot of sympathy with what the hon . Gentleman say , but he will know that over their lifetime it cost over five time as much to put cable underground as overground . while I agree that bury they be well in sensitive area , that will not offer the fast and cheap solution that overground cable , alongside major road and rail track , would offer . finally , we have an opportunity now to lean in to provide the decarbonisation that people want and need to see , and to keep the light on while keep bill down . if we think smartly , go with the grain of what community want — include what be set out in the excellent new clause 48 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , which propose that we stop build huge solar farm on agricultural land and put they on brownfield and less sensitive site instead — put power infrastructure in less environmentally sensitive area and help community to earn some money from onshore wind farm that they support in their area , then we will be truly keep the light on , keep bill down and , vitally , decarbonise , as we have commit to do . we all want to cut emission and tackle climate change , but people continue to suffer from the cost of living crisis . it be important that the cost of transition to low carbon alternative be not leave to individual to shoulder on their own . the Government propose phase out the use of high - carbon fossil fuel heating from the gas grid by ban the installation of new gas - fuel boiler from 2026 , and they advocate the alternative of heat pump . while heat pump have an important role to play in the decarbonisation of home heating , a heat pump only approach risk unfairly burden off - grid rural homeowner with expensive installation cost . my constituent be rightly concerned at the prospect of be make to install very costly alternative heating system that be not fit for purpose . some 11 million people live in rural area across the UK , with 15 % in off - grid home . the cost of instal a low - carbon heat pump be around four time more expensive than a replacement boiler . what be more , while a heat pump can technically be instal in all home across the UK , and it should be in new build housing , in certain property type , such as those in rural and coastal community like Gower , they will not run efficiently and risk increase energy bill to unnecessarily high level for homeowner , above those they currently pay . in some case , that could increase the overall cost of installation to £ 25 , 000 , accord to the Government ' s own calculator . I welcome the fact that the Government be consult on increase the grant available for heat pump in certain home , as announce last week . however , for some , those increase grant will not go far enough in make the cost of heat pump installation workable . my constituent in Gower , many of whom be off - grid homeowner , want to play their part in reduce emission . in fact , the majority of people who come to my summer surgery , while concerned about the cost , want to do their bit to reduce carbon emission . as have be say in the Chamber today , renewable liquid fuel , such as renewable diesel make from hydrotreated vegetable oil , offer a cheap alternative . they can reduce net carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emission from source to end user by up to 90 % . at a small cost , exist off - grid boiler can be modify to run renewable liquid fuel , such as HVO , save the homeowner the extortionate cost of a heat pump replacement . however , renewable liquid fuel be more expensive than their high - carbon competitor , kerosene . in order to aid swift uptake , the Energy Bill must enable the use of renewable liquid fuel , as well as introduce measure to explore reduce their cost and make they more accessible , such as a renewable liquid heating fuel obligation , mirror what already exist in transport and aviation . that would help my constituent transition to low - carbon alternative and incentivise fast and wide transition , more broadly , among off - grid household . there be some consensus across the House on those measure . an effective transition to clean energy must ensure that rural off - grid community , such as mine in Gower , be not leave with an expensive cost burden as we transition to net zero . to conclude , in light of the consultation on renewable liquid fuel , the Government must review their oil boiler ban . the Minister must ensure that the consultation be expedite so that all our off - grid constituent can benefit before he leave Government . the wish to carry through a great electrical revolution will require a lot of good will from the british people . my worry about this legislation be that it may antagonise they by be unduly restrictive , particularly with the threat of civil and even criminal penalty on some of their conduct . we need to persuade people that the green product will be cheap , well , more acceptable and make a more general contribution , and not try to bamboozle they . I hope that there will be an opportunity to vote on the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) to get rid of the threat of criminal and civil penalty over the issue of a proper transition . for thing to take off , the product — the heat pump and the electric car — will have to be much more popular . More people will have to believe in their specification and adequacy , and they will have to be more affordable . I , for example , would be very happy to have a heat pump to heat my rather small London flat , but I be tell that there be not one available because I be not allow to adorn the outside of the block of flat with any of the thing that a person would need to make a heat pump system work . there must be practical solution to these problem . we can not force the pace by legislation ; the market and the investment have to catch up . my second worry about this legislation be that energy policy have to achieve three thing at the same time . yes , we have to take considerable environmental issue into account , but we also need affordable energy and we need available energy . in recent year , all main party have put so much emphasis in their policy making on the environmental that we be miss the obvious , which be that we be no long guarantee security of supply . we can not guarantee security of supply if we be mainly rely on wind farm . we can not rely on solar on a dark winter evening when people want to cook their meal and turn the heating up , because there be no solar . we have to look at the relative cost . the unit cost of energy generate by a wind farm that be already build be very cheap on one cost system , but if we have a gas turbine system that be non - operational for most of the time , only kick in occasionally when the wind do not blow , that be part of the cost of the delivery of the wind power and it be a far more expensive way of run gas turbine than if we use they all the time . my right hon . friend be make an excellent point about the extra energy provision that we need to make renewable work . have he consider the true environmental cost of the battery , the digging up of cobalt by child in the Democratic Republic of Congo , the smelting and all the rest of it ? that be the real cost of rely on renewable , and we hear very little about the real cost of the battery . I be greatly in favour of do proper , whole - life carbon accounting , take into account all the co2 generate by make the green product — its lifetime use , on which it may be well , and its disposal , on which it may be bad . it be certainly the case that if we acquire an electric vehicle that have generate a lot of co2 in its production and then we do not drive it very much , we will have not a CO2 gain but a co2 loss , so there must be realistic carbon accounting . we also should not fall nationally for the fallacy that be build into the international system . for example , we could say that we have bring our co2 down because we be import thing , but that actually generate a lot more co2 than have we do it for ourselves . this be the essence of the argument about our own gas . if we get more of our own gas down a pipe , it produce a fraction of the co2 for the total process than if we import liquefy natural gas have have to use a lot of energy compress and liquefy the gas , a lot of energy switch it back , and a lot of energy on long - distance sea transport . therefore , we must be realistic in the CO2 accounting . finally , I do not think that the Bill be give we much guidance . for example , if the electrical revolution do take off , because the really popular product arrive and people find they affordable , how will they get the power deliver to their home ? we be already tell that many wind farm can not be start or can not be connect to the grid any time soon . there need to be a massive expansion of green capacity and a big digging - up of road and re - cabling of Britain . if my constituent be all to adopt an electric car and a heat pump , we need a massive expansion both of electricity generation and of grid capacity . I do not see that happen at the moment . there need to be market reaction and proper investment plan , and this legislation be not help . I fear that this Bill add to the cost . it add target that could turn out to be unrealistic and that could be self - defeat , because quite often the action take to abate CO2 end up generate more co2 at the world level and mean that we have export an awful lot of crucial business that we would be well off do here . we be go to a three - minute limit immediately . the wind - up will start at 5 . 50 pm and then there will be multiple vote from 6 pm onwards . I be afraid some people may not get in . thank you for call I in this debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . it have not be all jolly hockey stick , despite the fact that this Bill have take up quite a considerable amount of the House ' s time over the last number of year and Sessions . Northern Ireland have more than 60 % , maybe approach 70 % , of its house heat by solid fuel . as a representative of a constituency with a vast rural section that rely on coal and heating oil , I can not put my name to something that will say to my constituent , " I don ' t know what this be go to cost you , but this decision will actually inflict a high cost on you when there be a suitable and available product there that you can use to heat your home or to drive your car . " that press heavily on I , and it have press heavily , I notice , on some other member across the House , because there be significant cost implication in go down the propose route . Northern Ireland be not behind in make change . it be actually front and centre in the hydrogen revolution . it have be make hydrogen product and will be part of the hydrogen hub and the most significant hydrogen manufacturer in the entire island of Ireland . I listen carefully to the point make from the Government Front Bench about the hydro levy , and it will be interesting to see how that follow through . I be delighted by the comment make by the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . I know he be not try to hang anyone out to dry today , but it be important that we get from the Minister a clear indication of what be happen , not just in Northern Ireland , with regard to liquid renewable . it be important that the Government must support a variety of heating technology to give the UK the good chance of hit the 2050 carbon reduction target , if that be what they wish to do . they must reflect the diverse type of house that people live in across the entirety of the United Kingdom and do something that be fundamentally fair to people . we can not inflict this massive cost on people when we have an overreliance on solid fuel , especially in a country such as mine . we hear some comment from the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) on the issue of battery disposal . it concern I considerably that whenever a battery car have finish its life cycle , the battery largely end up in landfill . what benefit be that , when there be other technology out there be explore , utilise and develop that could give we a much well and more user - friendly experience ? a ban on new replacement fossil fuel appliance in home from 2026 will put a substantial cost on people . I also agree thoroughly with the point make about the disruption to many people and about heat pump . this Bill need to have even more thought give to it . in my point of order early I say that this be a 328 - page Bill . that be what it be when it come from the House of Lords ; it be now a 427 - page Bill , which we be expect to debate in detail in three hour , on a day when we have two relatively lightweight statement . that really seem to I not the proper way to have scrutiny in this House . it do not allow this House to do its proper job of look at the detail of legislation — it be as if we have abdicate it entirely to their lordship . I have support my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) in a number of amendment , every single one of which have basically the same aim : to ameliorate the burden this Bill will place on all our constituent . throughout the Bill , we be create cost , regulation , penalty and obligation . new clause 42 be there to say that the low possible cost should be at the forefront of the mind of the Government in everything that they do , irrespective of how the energy be generate . if that mean fossil fuel , let it be fossil fuel . as my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) say , we need to keep people with we , and we risk lose they if we put undue burden on they . what other burden do we seek to take away ? well , the hydrogen levy , of course . I be all in favour of hydrogen ; I think it could be the fuel of the future — I remember that when I be a child , coal be advertise as the fuel of the future . Hydrogen may have a well opportunity , but that can not be do by levy and impost , and I hope that what the Government have do will not be a power that they use to create a levy and an impost . on enter people ' s home without a warrant , a warrant be not the protection that one would like it to be — we see the scandal of warrant just be agree by the court willy - nilly to insist on the installation of prepayment meter — but at least a warrant be some protection . let we protect our voter . smart appliance regulation be the EU ' s approach to regulate rather than the market approach . surely we on the conservative Benches believe in market force determine how thing should happen . our amendment 67 deal with a Henry VIII clause to try to stop legislation be change by fiat . most importantly , on amendment 66 , can it possibly be right to criminalise people , and potentially put they in jail for a year , for muddle their energy efficiency certificate ? no , it can not , and we should not do it . the issue of flare and venting emission highlight in new clause 12 be an extremely important one . any unplanned hydrocarbon release must be do safely . I know the tremendous concern of the trade union , include the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers , and of the 49 , 000 offshore worker , about the Bill ' s failure to address safety - critical maintenance work on oil and gas installation . I very much agree with the sentiment in the new clause and welcome the fact that flare and venting emission have be reduce , but accord to industry body Offshore Energies UK , the average safety - critical maintenance backlog on UK offshore oil and gas installation increase by 50 % during the pandemic . I hope that the Minister will reflect on that and perhaps meet the union . turn to new clause 22 , I see tremendous merit in and need for timely and cost - effective connection to the grid , and for an acceleration of the development of an offshore wind energy grid , both of which be critical for Teesside and the Teesworks site . give the promise of many more job in the industry , connectivity to the electricity grid for the Teesworks site could not be more important . I would be oblige if the Minister update I on power supply , which I understand do not currently exist for the site , and on how he will use the new legislation to ensure that Teesside get the power it need . the Government say that the purpose of new clause 52 be to give great certainty to producer of sustainable aviation fuel . that be undoubtedly necessary , but I take issue with the long lead time . the new clause specify that " the Secretary of State must open the consultation within the period of 6 month " and report to Parliament on progress " within the period of 18 month " . the industry need certainty now . I know from talk that I have have with industrialist that the Government ' s dilly - dally be already impact on investment decision , and not in a positive way . new clause 34 call for a price stability mechanism to support the development of a UK sustainable aviation fuel industry . that be what those in the industry want , and they want it now . Alfanar be develop a £ 1 . 5 billion waste - to - sustainable aviation fuel facility on Teesside — the large in the world and the most advanced in Europe . it also plan two more SAF plant in the UK , but — and this be a big but — it need certainty from the UK Government that they be serious about the industry and will take the brake off and get on with create a business environment that will instil confidence . I very much welcome new clause 56 . it beggar belief that the exist linking of renewable and gas price in the retail market have deliver billion ' worth of extra cash to energy company while our hard - press constituent pick up the bill . I hope that Ministers will accept that that be unfair on consumer , and that the new clause will help they to correct that . I would have love to have talk at length about carbon capture and storage , but suffice it to say that the Government should take on board the amendment table by other . I have push my new clause 34 to a point where the Government have respond in a sensible way and start what I hope and believe will be a process . it be not for no reason that around 70 member of Parliament sign that new clause ; it be because of a recognition that this transition be go to happen in one of our most important industry , and it be go to happen around the world . the migration to sustainable aviation fuel be vital as the world decarbonise , not only because it be an essential first step towards decarbonisation , but in the long term — not for short - haul flight , which I think will be power by hydrogen ; by the 2030 , we will start to see short - haul hydrogen plane in operation . however , there be no technological approach yet that will take we to Australia or North America use anything other than sustainable aviation fuel , so it be a vital industry for the future of this country . there be investor out there wait to invest in develop plant here , but they need the confidence to know that there be a government commit to create a framework that will enable that investment to take place and be sustain . one of the reason I intervene on the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) , be that over the next 12 month , as we prepare for a general election , investor be look for confidence on both side of the House . it be not about a lack of confidence in our ability to win the next general election ; it be about deliver confidence to investor right now . that be why it be important that both the Government and the Labour party be commit to the development of sustainable aviation fuel in the United Kingdom . we want investor to be take decision about the deployment of their capital in this country now , prepare to invest and prepare for the end of the process that the Government have start through their new clause , so that by 2026 they be ready to build plant , develop sustainable aviation fuel and provide an important part of the future of the aviation industry in this country . I be grateful to the Minister for what he have do and the assurance he have give today , but I say to he and his colleague in Government that I and other will be hold their foot to the fire in the next 12 month , to ensure that the consultation start as quickly as possible and that the response to it come as quickly as possible . by the time we get to the general election , I want there to be a clear route map forward for the development of SAF in this country that have give investor confidence , so that they know as we go into the election campaign that both side will take this forward and that we have an industry that will be vital to the future of aviation in Britain , which be a crucial industry for all of we . it have be a pleasure to speak on the Bill on Second Reading and in Committee , but I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) that it be a great pity we can not have a long debate on Report or Third Reading , to expand on issue far . one of the issue that I want to expand on be about some of the alternative . we keep talk about electric vehicle move down , but hydrogen combustion vehicle offer a real opportunity to move forward . we also talk about net zero , but this have now move to zero - emission vehicle . that rule out hydrogen combustion , so again , we be go down a rabbit hole of just have electric vehicle , but an electric vehicle be not a zero - emission vehicle . if it be , the underground would have the clean air in London , and it do not , because there be a lot of particulate around it . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) make it clear through new clause 47 that we have to look at the source , and new clause 37 relate to where battery go . we keep talk about the rare earth metal that be need . indeed , the hon . member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) talk about be able to maintain baseload by use various aspect of energy storage . we keep come back to the need for rare earth metal and material to enable that , and they come from area of the world that we do not have an influence over . in the past 18 month , there have be a huge debate about the fact that we can not be reliant on russian energy , and yet few member in today ' s debate have recognise the fact that we be wholeheartedly move towards become reliant on China to supply our energy need . this be a huge bill . it be a fundamental bill that we have bring forward as we look to the future , but it be far too big , with far too many aspect to it . it have become a bit of a hodgepodge , say , " we want electric vehicle . we want electric heating in home . we want to have arc blast furnace rather than coal furnace , so we will ban new coalmine . " I promise this House that if we move to just arc furnace , we will destroy steel manufacturing in this country , because we do not have the ability now to produce the electricity that be need . we be not go to switch off the light in people ' s home before we switch off an arc furnace , and once it have be switch off , we can not switch it back on . that be the big mismatch in the Bill , which be why I regret that we will not have a Third Reading debate to discuss these issue on a slightly wide basis . the rush to renewable be happen quick than the timeline for make sure we have enough turbine , as my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) point out . my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) make very important point as well . although the aim be there , and I think we all want to follow those aim — not be reliant on foreign energy be highly important — at the moment there do not appear to be a connection between these thing as they come online . as such , although the aim of the Bill be good , we have to make sure that we implement they over a consistent timeframe so that we take the public with we . the beautiful food - produce farmland in my constituency be a particular target for industrial - scale solar farm , often back by prospector who have no personal connection to our area . this raise huge concern among my constituent about the scale of the project and the lack of thorough consultation . with the imperative of food security on our mind , we must explore alternative to cover vast expanse of our productive land with solar panel . many people do not appreciate the scale of the issue , so to illustrate the magnitude of this challenge , I will highlight one proposal for a solar farm in my constituency . it aim to engulf a staggering 587 hectare of land , just under half of which be grade 1 to grade 3A farmland — the very good and most versatile agricultural land , the good land for food production . in fact , almost 10 , 000 acre of my constituency be currently open to plan for solar farm . those farm will dwarf village such as Witham St Hughs , Thorpe on the Hill , Bassingham and Holdingham , and will almost encircle village such as Scopwick , Digby and Ashby de la Launde . I do not stand against solar panel in principle ; I have previously speak about the unexplored potential of utilise industrial roof space for they . however , I do not believe that cover our farmland in solar panel be the right thing to do , and I vehemently object to the lack of food security it could produce . I therefore support new clause 48 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , which seek to solve this injustice and put an end to these large - scale project . furthermore , I appreciate that that clause also encourage future development on brownfield site , which be far well suit to such endeavour . let we work together to protect our precious farmland , maintain our food security , heed the concern of our constituent , and chart a more sustainable path for our energy future . I be also shock to hear that more than 90 % of solar panel may be make by , or have element that come from , slave labour . as we discuss the slavery of the past , let we do all we can to prevent the slavery of the here and now . I therefore also support new clause 47 , which should be push to a division later . Lincolnshire as a whole produce a vast amount of this country ' s food , yet 22 , 500 acre — 1 . 3 % of its land area — be currently open to application for solar panel . as such , I ask the Minister to answer two question in his sum up . first , what will we eat when our good and most versatile farmland be cover by solar panel ? secondly , what be his assessment of the impact on the environment of grow energy from solar panel instead of food , then import food from elsewhere ? the Bill have an important role to play in ensure that we meet our 2050 net zero target , enhance our energy security and create new job , particularly in coastal community such as the constituency I represent . in drive forward the measure in the Bill , I urge the Government to have in mind the follow parameter . first , we need to pursue a strategic approach to the provision of infrastructure while maximise the leveraging - in of the enormous amount of much - need private sector investment that will be require . secondly , the Bill ' s framework need to be sufficiently flexible to allow all region of the UK to play their full role in the transition . it have be estimate that by 2035 , East Anglia ' s renewable and low - carbon energy supply portfolio could power the equivalent of 90 % of the UK ' s home . in our area , we need a recognition of the role we will play . finally , the Government need to rural - proof their policy , as articulate by my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) and the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) . community energy have an important contribution to make in boost clean energy generation and in offer people the opportunity to benefit from agree to host new energy infrastructure . therefore , the announcement of the new £ 10 million community energy fund be to be welcome . however , it be important that the Government monitor very closely the fund ' s impact and whether it be successful in unblock more community - own project . if it be not , they need to bring forward further measure , such as the amendment that be propose in the other place . I also take note of the amendment that have be table highlight the need to support vulnerable household and promote a social tariff . although this Bill may not be the right place for promote these policy , that do not mean that the concern raise be not valid and very real . the cost of living crisis be still with we . we be not out of the wood and I urge Ministers to liaise with their counterpart in the Treasury and the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure that appropriate support measure be in place . it be not before time that we be consider this Bill . we need to get on with it , get it on the statute book as quickly as possible and then get on with the task of delivery . I rise to support the principle of the government lift the ban on new onshore wind farm . I have every sympathy with new clause 43 , but I want to bring some context as to why and mention the fact that public support on this topic have completely and utterly change 180 ° in the last 10 or 15 year . in 2009 , which feel like a long time ago now , I be first elect as a local councillor and , in the very village I grow up in , one of the most controversial and contentious planning application I have ever see be put in front of we . it be for a 66 - metre — you ' ve guess it — wind turbine ; it be not a very big one , but it be to be build on the Cromer glacial ridge in North Norfolk . the backlash against that proposal be enormous , with 1 , 500 — 1 , 500 — objection , genuine protest and councillor elect on the back of the stop the turbine campaign . the applicant go through three planning appeal , two High Court hearing and an application to the Court of Appeal . finally , the planning inspector grant permission in February 2020 , after over a decade of fighting . that turbine go up just a few month ago . I be tell hon . member this because the Mack family that go through that process for over a decade must have spend ten and ten of thousand of pound , but now it have be build , public perception have change and the complaint against it have be absolutely negligible . what that say , above all , be that people have now change the general consensus on onshore wind . it have totally change and , as parliamentarian , we should reflect public opinion . when the mood change , we should change with it sometimes . People get it now : people get that that one turbine will power 700 home in the local area . of course , new application must be design to be sympathetic to the surround landscape , but people recognise that we need our own energy security , sustainable , clean and green form of energy to decarbonise and an energy mix that will give we security as well . thing have clearly change , and I think this be a very sensible , pragmatic and low - cost way of the Government move to give we more clean and green energy . that one single application I mention show how public sentiment have change , which be why I support the Bill today . rise — order . this will have to be the final two minute from the Back Benches . I call Jerome Mayhew . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be just go to talk about one new clause , new clause 29 , which I oppose . it seek to prevent further licence of North sea oil and gas . the reason I oppose it be that we have a plan for the decarbonisation of our economy and it be police , if I can put it that way , by the Committee on Climate Change . in the path to net zero by 2050 , we recognise that we have a continue need for oil and gas at least until 2035 , when more than 50 % of our energy need will still come from fossil fuel , and actually up to 2050 include , because it be net zero , not absolute zero . we have to have oil and gas , so let ' s get it from the most efficient and environmentally friendly source . the most environmentally friendly source be Norway , but that be not an unlimited resource ; the CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil there be about 7 kg . the additional oil and gas we use come not from Norway but from Qatar ; it be liquid natural gas and the co2 equivalent per barrel there be 79 kg , whereas the figure for the North sea be 21 kg — a quarter the level of environmental damage per kilogram of co2 equivalent . the consequence of close down the North sea prematurely would be to increase emission and make our carbon footprint bad . it would be the triumph of virtue signal over the practicality of decarbonisation . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not ; I be sorry , but I only have one and a half minute . it be logical on environmental ground , therefore , to support new licence in oil and gas . but there be other argument . there be the balance of payment — we use to talk about the balance of payment . in 2022 , our trade in good deficit be £ 63 . 9 billion . I would rather have our import of oil and gas come from the UK and not be import at all , support our balance of payment . there be the tax income . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that in 2023 - 24 we be go to get £ 10 . 4 billion of tax revenue from North sea oil . that pay for a lot of public good . we should be support that , and we should be support business profitability and job , because that support our community . it also give time for the phasing of what be describe as the just transition to renewable job . there be an irony in that the proponent of new clause 30 , lead by the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) , talk about just transition , but it be this long process away from North sea oil and gas , manage decline , that provide the space for a truly just transition to new renewable employment in this country . I do not support new clause 29 as a result . rise — I apologise to those member who have not be call ; a note will be make and a count take . I call the Minister , Andrew Bowie . I be delighted to rise . I must apologise in advance of my closing remark : give the time available , I will not be able to address every single point , question , statement and amendment raise today . [ interruption . ] that be the first time I have ever be tell to speed up my speak style . however , I will commit to write to every member who have raise a question , and certainly question that be pertinent to how we implement some of the regulation that we be present here today and which will be subject to discussion in the Lords next week . on new clause 47 , present by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , we keep all sanction under review and she know that we can not comment on any potential future designation . we have a global right sanction regime , which allow we to take action when the necessary legislative criterion be meet and we assess sanction be appropriate . I can confirm to she that we take an interest in the concern she set out and will continue to act . we have introduce new guidance on the risk of do business in Xinjiang , enhance export control and announce the introduction of financial penalty under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . I know the Minister have historically be very strong on this point . I be interested in the fact that the Government have raise that point about sanction and the possibility of sanction , because we have not hear that before . both the US and EU have sanction those who use slave labour within their supply chain . if the government — I hope they be say this today ; I know they can not comment on sanction designation — be say that they will bring forward sanction against company that be completely complicit in slave labour — we have the evidence both from the US and our own work — that will be incredibly positive because it would send a strong deterrent message across the industry that we will not accept slave labour in our supply chain . I thank my hon . friend for her comment and constructive engagement over the past couple of day and month . as I say , I commit to work with she and other interested party on this matter as we continue to do what we can to combat the existence of slave labour in that market . the energy efficiency amendment be raise a number of time . I want to be absolutely clear : we be simply seek to replace the power to amend the energy performance of premise regime , which be lose as we depart the EU . Brexit give we the power to do that . I can categorically guarantee before the House that we be not create new offence . in any case , any new offence on anything — as be always the case — would have to be subject to debate , scrutiny and vote in this place , which Brexit have allow we to do . my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) raise the issue of a warrant for exercise power of entry with his amendment 50 . I assure he that clause 152 modify the Gas Act 1986 by build on exist provision concern the power of entry . as such , the exist rule on power of entry will continue to apply , whereby gas transporter must obtain a warrant from the magistrate court before use . I hope that satisfy my hon . friend . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) for her amendment today . I pay tribute to she for her outstanding work , her support for this Bill during her time as Secretary of State in the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy and her continued work when she be chair of the departmental Back - Bench committee . I be delighted to be able to confirm that we will continue to work towards what her amendment seek to do , and I be happy to continue to work with she in pursuance of that , alongside the industry and the Department . it would be remiss of I not to mention and thank my right hon . friend the Members for read West ( Sir Alok Sharma ) and for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) for their close work with the Government over recent week . onshore wind be an important part of our energy mix , and the Government have always maintain that it should be build where there be local support , ensure that the voice of local community be hear . in December last year , the Government consult on change to national planning policy for onshore wind in England . through that consultation , the Government have hear the strength of feeling and the range of view on this topic . we continue to believe that decision on onshore wind be well make by local representative who know their area . nevertheless , the feedback be clear that we need to strike the right balance , and that be why the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities publish a write ministerial statement , as be describe early , and we look forward to work with colleague to implement that as we move forward . I would also be remiss not to mention my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) and her comment today and constructive engagement over the past few month . lithium - ion battery storage system be a concern for many in this House . the Government acknowledge the concern surround the potential safety and environmental impact of battery energy storage at grid scale . it be a priority for this government to ensure the existence of an appropriate , robust and future - proof regulatory framework that protect people and the environment . that be why I be pleased to confirm today that we have seek to provide further clarity through both the planning system and environmental permitting regulation . the Government have recently update planning practice guidance , which encourage battery storage developer to engage with local fire and rescue and local planning authority to refer to the guidance publish by the National Fire Chiefs Council . the Government intend to consult on include battery storage system in the environmental permitting regulation at the early opportunity . the main mechanism for control emission to air , land and water from industrial installation be through comply with an industrial installation permit . these permit set out mandatory condition that operator must comply with to protect the health of local community and the local environment . installation be then inspect at a frequency accord to their level of risk , and regulator have enforcement power available to they if operator be not comply with their permit condition . I hope that my right hon . friend and other hon . and right hon . member for whom this be an issue of great concern be reassure by those commitment today . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their engagement in this debate , especially my hon . friend the Member for Banff and Buchan ( David Duguid ) , who be a real champion of the UK ' s thrive ccus industry . I thank he for his comment today . the licence issue by different authority be design to serve different purpose . the new requirement for an economic licence recognise the monopolistic nature of carbon dioxide pipeline and storage and be design to protect user of the network from anti - competitive behaviour , include monopolistic pricing . this be complementary , rather than duplicative of the exist carbon storage licensing framework . I can reassure my hon . friend that the provision in clause 128 ( 1 ) ( a ) be sufficiently broad to cover all method of co2 transportation . finally , my hon . Friend speak about offshore wind . as part of the development consent process , applicant be require to consult with stakeholder , include devolve administration where relevant , and consider the impact of their development on other sea user . however , I be also happy to confirm that I will meet he at any time , as well as representative of the fishing industry , for whom this be a big issue . I thank member across the House for their consider contribution . for the reason that I have set out , I respectfully ask they not to press their amendment to any vote . question put and agree to . new clause 52 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 9 May ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 63 - renewable liquid heating fuel obligation " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation subject off - grid heating fuel supplier ( or off - grid heating fuel supplier of a particular description ) to an obligation in respect of renewable liquid heating fuel that correspond to or be similar to the obligation mention in section 124 ( 2 ) of the Energy Act 2004 ( renewable transport fuel obligation ) . ( 2 ) the regulation may , for any purpose connect with that obligation , make provision correspond to or similar to any provision make by , or that may be make under , chapter 5 of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2004 ( power etc relate to renewable transport fuel obligation ) . ( 3 ) before make regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must consult such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) regulation under this section be subject to the affirmative procedure . ( 5 ) in this section — " off - grid heating fuel supplier " mean a person who , in the course of business , supply any — ( a ) renewable liquid heating fuel , ( b ) fossil fuel , or ( c ) other fuel , apart from solid fuel , at or for delivery to place in Great Britain with a view to its be use wholly or mainly for the purpose of heating building to which there be no main gas supply ; " renewable liquid heating fuel " mean fuel that be typically supply or store in a liquid state and that be — ( a ) biofuel or blend biofuel , or ( b ) fuel ( other than fossil fuel or nuclear fuel ) produce — ( i ) wholly by energy from a renewable source , or ( ii ) wholly by a process power wholly by such energy ; and " biofuel " , " blend biofuel " , " fossil fuel " and " renewable source " have the meaning give in section 132 of the Energy Act 2004 . " — ( Andrew Bowie . ) this new clause , intend to be insert after clause 156 , allow for the imposition of an obligation on off - gas - grid heating fuel supplier that correspond to the " renewable transport fuel obligation " provide for in chapter 5 of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2004 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 64 - Regulations under section 92 ( 1 ) : procedure with devolved authority " ( 1 ) before make regulation under section 92 ( 1 ) that contain provision within devolved competence , the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant devolve authority — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under section 92 ( 1 ) , and ( b ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to the provision within the relevant devolve competence , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 2 ) in this section , " relevant devolve authority " , in relation to regulation , mean — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence ; and " the relevant devolve competence " , in relation to a relevant devolve authority , be to be construe accordingly . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , provision — ( a ) be within Scottish devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) be within Welsh devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) be within Northern Ireland devolve competence if it — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , and reference to provision be within devolve competence be to provision that be within Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland devolve competence . " — ( Andrew Bowie . ) this new clause , intend for insertion after clause 93 , require the relevant devolved authority to be consult where regulation under clause 92 ( 1 ) contain provision that be within devolved competence . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 65 - Regulations make by Secretary of State : consultation with devolved authority " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under section 216 by virtue of any of Parts 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 and 12 of Schedule 18 , and ( b ) the regulation contain — ( i ) in the case of regulation make by virtue of Part 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 or 12 of Schedule 18 , provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( ii ) in the case of regulation make by virtue of Part 5 of Schedule 18 , provision within Welsh devolve competence . ( 2 ) before make the regulation , the Secretary of State must give notice — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make the regulation , ( b ) set out or describe — ( i ) so far as the regulation be make as mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( i ) , the provision within Scottish devolve competence , ( ii ) so far as the regulation be make as mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , the provision within Welsh devolve competence , and ( c ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to those provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 3 ) a notice under subsection ( 2 ) must be give to each relevant devolve authority , that be to say — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation be make as mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( i ) and contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation be make as mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ii ) and contain provision within Welsh devolve competence . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specify under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) before make regulation if , before the end of that period , each relevant devolve authority to which the notice be give have confirm that it have make any representation it intend to make with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) ( i ) or ( ii ) ( as the case may be ) . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , if request to do so by a relevant devolved authority , give the authority a statement set out whether and how representation make by the authority with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) ( i ) or ( ii ) ( as the case may be ) have be take into account in the regulation . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section , provision — ( a ) be within Scottish devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) be within Welsh devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) . " — ( Andrew Bowie . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 216 , require the Secretary of State to carry out a consultation process with the Scottish Ministers and the Welsh Ministers so far as regulation under clause 216 make provision within Scottish or Welsh legislative competence . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 66 - Regulations under section 292 and 293 : procedure with devolved authority " regulation under section 292 ( 1 ) before make regulation under section 292 that contain provision within devolved competence , the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant devolve authority — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under that section , ( b ) set out or describe the provision that be within the relevant devolve competence , and ( c ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to that provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specify under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) before make regulation if , before the end of that period , each relevant devolve authority to which the notice be give have confirm that it have make any representation it intend to make with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , if request to do so by a relevant devolved authority , give the authority a statement set out whether and how representation make by the authority with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) have be take into account in the regulation . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) , " relevant devolve authority " , in relation to regulation , mean — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence ; ( c ) the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland , if the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence ; and " the relevant devolve competence " , in relation to a relevant devolve authority , be to be construe accordingly . regulation under section 293 ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may not make regulation under section 293 contain provision within Scottish devolve competence unless the Scottish Ministers have consent to that provision . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may not make regulation under section 293 contain provision within Welsh devolve competence unless the Welsh Ministers have consent to that provision . devolve competence ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section , provision — ( a ) be within Scottish devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) be within Welsh devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) be within Northern Ireland devolve competence if it — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ; and reference to provision be within devolve competence be to provision that be within Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland devolve competence . " — ( Andrew Bowie . ) this new clause , intend for insertion after clause 293 , be about case where regulation under clause 292 or 293 contain provision within devolved competence . for clause 292 regulation , it require the relevant devolved authority to be consult . for clause 293 regulation , it require the Scottish or Welsh Ministers ' consent . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 12 - prohibition on flare and venting and enhance measure to reduce fugitive methane emission " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation — ( a ) prohibit the practice of flare and venting by oil and gas installation other than in an emergency within the jurisdiction of the United Kingdom , ( b ) require monthly leak detection and repair inspection to reduce fugitive methane emission , ( c ) require a measurement , reporting and verification process to quantify methane emission , and ( d ) require the upgrade of all equipment to alternative zero - or low - emission and low - maintenance equipment , such as electric , mechanical , or compress air equipment . ( 2 ) in this section — " flare " mean the burning of methane gas and other hydrocarbon produce during oil and gas extraction ; " venting " mean the release of methane gas and other hydrocarbon directly into the atmosphere , without combustion . ( 3 ) regulation under this section must be make so as to come into force by 31 December 2025 . " — ( Wera Hobhouse . ) this new clause would prohibit " flaring " and " venting " . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 192 , Noes 316 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 39 - duty of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority in respect of off - grid fuel " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation extend the duty of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to the distribution and supply of fuel utilise for off - grid home heating . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide for GEMA to apply a cap on the price of fuel supply for off - grid home heating proportionate to the cap apply in respect of on - grid home . " — ( Alan Brown . ) this new clause seek to extend the duty of Ofgem to regulate off - grid fuel utilise for off - grid home heating and to ensure that a cap be apply for off - grid home fuel that be proportionate to the cap apply for on - grid home . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . the House proceed to a Division . order . I be advise that the bell at no . 1 Parliament Street be not work . I shall extend the Division time by two minute . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Andrew Bridgen Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Sally - Ann Hart Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Marion Fellows Peter Grant Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards the House have divide : Ayes 235 , Noes 306 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 57 - Onshore wind " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation ensure that onshore wind installation be treat for the purpose of planning and development as local infrastructure and will be permit or otherwise as if they be . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend any primary legislation pass before the passage of this Act . " — ( Dr Whitehead . ) this new clause ensure that onshore wind development proposal in England and Wales be permit to proceed on the same basis as other local infrastructure project . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 188 , Noes 310 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 59 - decarbonise electricity supply by 2030 " ( 1 ) it be the duty of the Secretary of State to ensure that the supply of electricity in the UK be decarbonise by 2030 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passage of this Act , produce and publish a plan which will set out how the duty in subsection ( 1 ) be to be achieve . " — ( Dr Whitehead . ) this new clause be intend to provide for the UK ' s electricity supply to be decarbonise by 2030 . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes draw Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Thewliss Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies James davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Steve Double Ruth Edwards the House divide : Ayes 223 , Noes 310 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 61 - National Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan ( no . 2 ) " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , before the end of the period of 6 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , publish an action plan entitle the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , to set out proposal for delivery of — ( a ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band c by 2035 in all UK home where practical , cost effective and affordable , and ( b ) an Energy Performance Certificate at band b by 2030 in all privately rent non - domestic property , and ( c ) the Future Homes Standard for all new build in England by 2025 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , in develop the Warmer Homes and Businesses Action Plan , consult the Climate Change Committee and its sub - committee on adaptation . " — ( Dr Whitehead . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Liz Twist Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson the House divide : Ayes 189 , Noes 305 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 - principal objective and general duty of Secretary of State and economic regulator Amendment make : 180 , page 3 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the interim target , as define in section 2 of that Act ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to have regard to the interim target set out in section 2 of the Climate Change ( Scotland ) Act 2009 in carry out function under Part 1 of the Bill . clause 2 - prohibition on unlicensed activity Amendments make : 131 , page 4 , line 14 , after " repeal " insert " or revocation " . this amendment make it clear that the amendment refer to in subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) include revocation as well as repeal . amendment 198 , page 4 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) but regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) may not make provision amend ( or repeal or revoke ) any provision of — ( a ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament , or an instrument make under such an Act , unless the Scottish Ministers have consent to the making of that provision ; ( b ) a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru , or an instrument make under such a measure or Act , unless the Welsh Ministers have consent to the making of that provision ; ( c ) Northern Ireland legislation , or an instrument make under Northern Ireland legislation , unless the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland have consent to the making of that provision . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment provide that the Secretary of State may not by virtue of subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) amend the specified devolve legislation without the consent of the relevant devolved authority . clause 6 - Revocation or withdrawal of exemption Amendment make : 181 , page 7 , line 39 , at end insert " , and ( b ) consider any representation which be duly make and not withdraw . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment impose an express duty on the Secretary of State to consider any representation make in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) . clause 8 - power to create licence type Amendments make : 132 , page 9 , line 10 , after " repeal " insert " or revocation " . this amendment make it clear that the amendment refer to in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) include revocation as well as repeal . amendment 199 , page 9 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) before make regulation under this section contain provision within devolved competence , the Secretary of State must give notice to each relevant devolve authority — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under this section , and ( b ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to the provision within the relevant devolve competence , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 2b ) for the purpose of this section " relevant devolve authority " mean — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence ; and " the relevant devolve competence " , in relation to a relevant devolve authority , be to be construe accordingly . ( 2C ) for the purpose of this section , provision — ( a ) be within Scottish devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) be within Welsh devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) be within Northern Ireland devolve competence if it — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ; and reference to provision be within devolve competence be to provision that be within Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland devolve competence . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the Secretary of State to consult the relevant devolved authority before make regulation under this clause that would deal with devolve matter . clause 9 - Procedure for licence application Amendments make : 200 , page 9 , line 32 , at end insert " and ( b ) specify a period of not less than 28 day within which representation or objection with respect to the propose regulation may be make , and the Secretary of State must consider any representation or objection which be duly make and not withdraw . " amendment 201 , clause 9 , page 10 , line 5 , at end insert " , and ( b ) send a copy of the notice to — ( i ) the Scottish Ministers , if an activity that would be authorise by the propose licence be within Scottish devolve competence ; ( ii ) the Welsh Ministers , if an activity that would be authorise by the licence be within Welsh devolve competence ; ( iii ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if an activity that would be authorise by the licence be within Northern Ireland devolve competence . ( 5A ) section 17 ( 4 ) ( activity authorise by a licence : devolve competence ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) of this section as it apply for the purpose of section 17 . " this amendment require the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to notify the relevant devolved authority where it propose to grant a licence authorise activity that be within devolved competence . amendment 202 , page 10 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 10 ) and insert — " ( 10 ) for the purpose of this section " appropriate devolved authority " , in relation to regulation , mean — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence . ( 10a ) for the purpose of this section , provision — ( a ) be within Scottish devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) be within Welsh devolve competence if it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) be within Northern Ireland devolve competence if it — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment restate the definition of " appropriate devolved authority " . clause 10 - competitive tender for licence Amendments make : 203 , page 11 , line 4 , leave out " consult " and insert " give notice to " . this amendment and Amendment 204 impose additional requirement on consultation under subsection ( 3 ) , include that at least 28 day be to be allow for representation to be make . Amendment 204 , clause 10 , page 11 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under this section , and ( b ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation must be make with respect to the propose provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the Secretary of State to allow a period of 28 day for representation to be make and to consider any representation that be properly make . clause 13 - modification of condition of licence Amendments make : 205 , page 15 , line 34 , at end insert " and ( iii ) the appropriate devolved authority ( if any ) . " this amendment and Amendment 206 require consultation with the devolved authority in case where the propose licence modification be within devolved competence . amendment 206 , page 16 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 12 ) for the purpose of this section the " appropriate devolved authority " be — ( a ) the Welsh Ministers , if provision make the modification propose in the notice under subsection ( 2 ) would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( b ) the Scottish Ministers , if provision make the modification propose in that notice would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if provision make the modification propose in that notice — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 205 . clause 19 - consent to transfer Amendments make : 207 , page 20 , line 26 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) send a copy of the notice to — ( i ) the Scottish Ministers , if an activity authorise by the licence be within Scottish devolve competence , ( ii ) the Welsh Ministers , if an activity authorise by the licence be within Welsh devolve competence , ( iii ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if an activity authorise by the licence be within Northern Ireland devolve competence , ( iv ) the Oil and Gas Authority , and ( v ) such other person as the economic regulator consider be likely to be affect by the decision , and " . this amendment and Amendment 208 require the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority to notify the specified authority before give consent to the transfer of a licence which authorise activity that be within devolved competence . amendment 208 , page 20 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) section 17 ( 4 ) ( activity authorise by a licence : devolve competence ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) of this section as it apply for the purpose of section 17 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for the Minister ' s amendment at page 20 , line 27 . clause 39 - Forward work programme Amendment make : 209 , page 35 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) the economic regulator must send a copy of any notice give by it under subsection ( 4 ) to — ( a ) the Welsh Ministers , ( b ) the Scottish Ministers , and ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the economic regulator to draw the draft work programme to the attention of the devolved administration . clause 56 - chapter 1 : interpretation amendment make : 144 , page 50 , leave out line 20 to 23 . this amendment leave out the definition of " electricity supplier " and be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 145 , page 50 , line 32 , at begin insert " GB " . this amendment change the label " gas shipper " to " gb gas shipper " . amendment 146 , page 50 , leave out line 34 to 37 . this amendment omit the definition of " gas supplier " and be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 147 , page 51 , line 14 , at end insert — " " Northern Ireland gas shipper " mean a person who hold a licence under article 8 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 ( s . I . 1996 / 275 ( N . I . 2 ) ) and who in the opinion of the Secretary of State carry on an activity which be similar to an activity that ( in Great Britain ) may be authorise by a licence under section 7a ( 2 ) of the Gas Act 1986 ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment provide a definition of " Northern Ireland gas shipper " and be supplemental to Amendment 148 . clause 62 - Direction to offer to contract with eligible hydrogen transport provider Amendment make : 139 , page 56 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) Regulations within subsection ( 4 ) may in particular make provision by reference to standard or other publish document ( as they have effect from time to time ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make it clear that regulation define " eligible " in relation to a hydrogen transport provider may make reference to document external to the regulation , as the document have effect from time to time . clause 64 - direction to offer to contract with eligible hydrogen storage provider Amendment make : 140 , page 57 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) Regulations within subsection ( 4 ) may in particular make provision by reference to standard or other publish document ( as they have effect from time to time ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make it clear that regulation define " eligible " in relation to a hydrogen storage provider may make reference to document external to the regulation , as the document have effect from time to time . clause 66 - direction to offer to contract Amendment make : 141 , page 58 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) Regulations within subsection ( 4 ) may in particular make provision by reference to standard or other publish document ( as they have effect from time to time ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make it clear that regulation define " eligible " in relation to a low carbon hydrogen producer may make reference to document external to the regulation , as the document have effect from time to time . clause 68 - Direction to offer to contract Amendment make : 142 , page 60 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) Regulations within subsection ( 4 ) may in particular make provision by reference to standard or other publish document ( as they have effect from time to time ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make it clear that regulation define " eligible " in relation to a carbon capture entity may make reference to document external to the regulation , as the document have effect from time to time . clause 70 - obligation of relevant market participant Amendment make : 148 , page 62 , line 4 , leave out from " but " to end of line 8 and insert " a description so specified may not include person other than — ( a ) GB gas shipper ; ( b ) Northern Ireland gas shipper . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment limit the person who can be bring within the definition of a " relevant market participant " to person hold a licence under section 7a ( 2 ) of the Gas Act 1986 and certain person hold a licence under article 8 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 . clause 73 - power to appoint allocation body Amendment make : 121 , page 64 , line 37 , leave out " designation " and insert " appointment " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment correct a drafting error . clause 76 - allocation of contract Amendment make : 143 , page 67 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( ba ) make provision by reference to standard or other publish document ( as they have effect from time to time ) ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make it clear that provision in an allocation framework may relate to publish standard or other publish document as they have effect from time to time . clause 83 - information and advice Amendment make : 149 , page 72 , line 3 , leave out sub - paragraph ( iii ) to ( v ) and insert — " ( iii ) a relevant market participant , or " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 144 , 145 and 146 . clause 84 - Enforcement Amendments make : 150 , page 72 , line 24 , leave out sub - paragraph ( i ) and ( ii ) and insert " a GB gas shipper " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . Amendment 151 , page 72 , line 30 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 152 , page 72 , line 35 , leave out sub - paragraph ( i ) and ( ii ) and insert " a person who hold a licence under article 8 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Gas ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1996 ( s . I . 1996 / 275 ( N . I . 2 ) ) " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . clause 85 - Consultation Amendments make : 210 , page 73 , line 20 , leave out " consult " and insert — " ( a ) consult the person mention in subsection ( 1A ) , and ( b ) specify a period of not less than 28 day for the purpose of subsection ( 1b ) . ( 1A ) the person to be consult under subsection ( 1 ) be — " . this amendment require that the period of a consultation under subsection ( 1 ) be at least 28 day . amendment 211 , page 73 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) the Secretary of State must consider any representation that be — ( a ) duly make within the period specify under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) by person consult under subsection ( 1 ) , and ( b ) not withdraw . " this amendment make it clear that representation that be duly make within the specify time period must be consider . amendment 212 , page 73 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1C ) before make regulation under section 73 ( 1 ) ( power to appoint allocation body ) the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the regulation contain provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the regulation contain provision that would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if the regulation contain provision that — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 , and the Secretary of State must consider any representation duly make by person consult under this subsection and not withdraw . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to carry out consultation before make regulation appoint allocation body . Amendment 213 , page 73 , leave out line 40 and 41 and insert — " ( a ) consult the person mention in subsection ( 2A ) , and ( b ) specify a period of not less than 28 day for the purpose of subsection ( 2B ) . ( 2A ) the person to be consult under subsection ( 2 ) be — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , if the standard term contain provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it be contain in an Act of that Parliament ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , if the standard term contain provision that would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it be contain in an Act of the Senedd ( ignore any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown impose under Schedule 7b to the Government of Wales Act 2006 ) ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , if the standard term contain provision that — ( i ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( ii ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 ; ( d ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 2b ) the Secretary of State must consider any representation that be — ( a ) duly make within the period specify under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) by person consult under subsection ( 2 ) , and ( b ) not withdraw . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment alter the list of person who must be consult before publish standard term and require that the period of a consultation under subsection ( 2 ) be at least 28 day . clause 89 - Modifications of licence etc for purpose relate to levy obligation Amendments make : 153 , page 77 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 154 , page 77 , line 21 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 155 , page 77 , line 38 , leave out " ( 1 ) to " and insert " ( 2 ) and " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 153 and 154 . amendment 156 , page 78 , line 2 , leave out " ( 1 ) to " and insert " ( 2 ) and " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 153 and 154 . amendment 157 , page 78 , line 8 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 158 , page 78 , line 10 , leave out paragraph ( c ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 159 , page 78 , line 14 , leave out " ( c ) and " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 156 . amendment 160 , page 78 , line 15 , leave out " those sub - paragraph " and insert " that sub - paragraph " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 159 . amendment 161 , page 78 , line 17 , leave out " ( 1 ) or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 153 . amendment 162 , page 78 , line 23 , leave out " ( 3 ) or " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 154 . clause 91 - section 89 and 90 : supplementary Amendments make : 163 , page 79 , line 35 , leave out " any of subsection ( 1 ) to " and insert " subsection ( 2 ) or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments153 and 154 . amendment 164 , page 80 , line 31 , leave out from " 1986 " to " or " in line 32 . this amendment be consequential on Amendments153 and 154 . amendment 70 , page 80 , line 37 , leave out " Smart Meters Act 2018 " and insert " Energy Prices Act 2022 " . this amendment result from the passing of the Energy Prices Act 2022 since the Bill be introduce in July 2022 . amendment 165 , page 80 , line 39 , leave out subsection ( 14 ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 153 . clause 92 - financing of cost of decommissioning etc Amendment make : 122 , page 82 , line 28 , at end insert — " " carbon storage installation " have the same meaning as in section 30 of the Energy Act 2008 ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment clarify that the definition of " carbon storage installation " in section 30 of the Energy Act 2008 apply to clause 92 . clause 94 - Provisions relate to Part 4 of the Petroleum Act 1998 Amendments make : 123 , page 84 , line 17 , leave out " ( 5 ) " and insert " ( 5A ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 124 . amendment 124 , page 86 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for the word from " fall " to the end substitute " which be or have be maintain , or be intend to be establish , for the purpose of an activity mention in section 17 ( 2 ) ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ) to which subsection ( 6 ) apply . ( 5A ) in subsection ( 6 ) , for the word from the beginning to " it " substitute " this subsection apply to any activity which be carry on from , by mean of or on an installation which " . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment omit " or have be " before " establish " in the word amend section 30 ( 5 ) of the Energy Act 2008 for great consistency with subsection ( 2 ) of that section . it also clarify the relationship between section 30 ( 5 ) ( as amend by the Bill ) and section 30 ( 6 ) ) . clause 100 - Review Amendments make : 214 , page 94 , line 15 , leave out from begin to " before " . see Amendment 215 . Amendment 215 , page 94 , line 16 , at end insert " the Secretary of State must give notice to the appropriate consultee — ( a ) set out the Secretary of State ' s propose decision , and ( b ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation must be make , and the Secretary of State must consider any representation which be duly make and not withdraw . ( 10a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 10 ) , the " appropriate consultee " be — " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment and Amendment 214 provide that when the Secretary of State propose on a review under this section to leave the strategy and policy statement as it be or to withdraw its designation the Secretary of State must allow at least 28 day for representation to be make and must consider any representation that be properly make . clause 127 - access to infrastructure Amendment make : 216 , page 114 , line 6 , leave out " consult " and insert " give to the appropriate consultee a notice — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make regulation under subsection ( 1 ) , and ( b ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation must be make with respect to the propose provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . " ( 6a ) for the purpose of this section the " appropriate consultee " be — " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the Secretary of State to allow 28 day for representation to be make about propose regulation and impose a duty to consider representation that be properly make . clause 128 - financial assistance Amendments make : 125 , page 115 , line 6 , leave out " and storage " . this amendment and Amendment 126 clarify that the Secretary of State be authorise to provide financial assistance for either or both of transport and storage of carbon dioxide . amendment 126 , page 115 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( aa ) storage of carbon dioxide ; " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 125 . amendment 127 , page 115 , line 8 , leave out from " for " to end of line 9 and insert " any activity mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( aa ) " . this amendment ensure that the Secretary of State be authorise to provide financial assistance for carbon dioxide capture facility which operate ( or be to operate ) in association with facility for either or both of transport and storage of carbon dioxide . amendment 128 , page 115 , line 11 , leave out " and storage " . this amendment and Amendment 129 clarify that the Secretary of State be authorise to provide financial assistance for either or both of transport and storage of hydrogen . amendment 129 , page 115 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( e ) storage of hydrogen . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 128 . amendment 71 , page 115 , line 27 , leave out paragraph ( f ) and insert — " ( f ) may be provide by the acquisition of share or any other interest in , or security of , a body corporate ; " this amendment , together with Amendments 72 , 77 , 80 , 81 , 92 and 93 , seek to ensure consistency with wording use in other provision in the Bill that confer power to provide financial assistance . amendment 72 , page 115 , line 29 , leave out " take the form of investment " and insert " be provide " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . clause 133 - Grant , extension or restriction of gas transporter licence by Secretary of State Amendment make : 133 , page 119 , line 23 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) " and insert " this section " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment correct a minor drafting error . clause 139 - Conditions of gas transporter licence for conveyance of hydrogen Amendment make : 134 , page 125 , line 33 , leave out " licence to which this section apply " and insert " relevant licence " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment correct a minor drafting error . clause 150 - scheme regulation : procedure etc Amendments make : 217 , page 132 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment remove the requirement for the Secretary of State to consult the devolved administration so far as regulation under clause 142 ( 1 ) apply in relation to Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland . the requirement be supersede by the more detailed provision make by Amendment 218 . amendment 218 , page 132 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) before make scheme regulation that apply in relation to Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland , the Secretary of State must give notice — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make scheme regulation , ( b ) set out or describe the provision of the regulation that apply in relation to Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland , and ( c ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to those provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 6 ) a notice under subsection ( 5 ) must be give to each relevant devolve authority , that be to say — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , so far as the regulation apply in relation to Scotland ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , so far as the regulation apply in relation to Wales ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , so far as the regulation apply in relation to Northern Ireland . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specify under subsection ( 5 ) ( c ) before make regulation if , before the end of that period , each relevant devolve authority to which the notice be give have confirm that it have make any representation it intend to make with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must , if request to do so by a relevant devolved authority , give the authority a statement set out whether and how representation make by the authority with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) have be take into account in the regulation . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment require the Secretary of State to consult the devolved administration so far as scheme regulation under clause 142 ( 1 ) apply in relation to Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland . clause 160 - duty to promote particular objective Amendments make : 73 , page 138 , line 29 , at end insert " within subsection ( 5 ) ( a ) , ( b ) or ( ba ) " . this amendment limit the width of the duty of the Independent System Operator and Planner ( ISOP ) to promote the efficiency and economy objective . the effect be that the duty will apply , broadly speak , to activity in respect of which the ISOP ' s predecessor have function , and to activity in respect of which the ISOP have or acquire function ; but not to activity describe in clause 160 ( 5 ) ( c ) . amendment 74 , page 138 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( ba ) an activity , other than an activity within paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) , in respect of which the ISOP have function ; " . this amendment relocate the provision currently at clause 160 ( 5 ) ( d ) to early in the definition of " relevant activity " . it be also consequential on Amendment 75 . amendment 75 , page 138 , line 39 , leave out " or ( b ) " and insert " , ( b ) or ( ba ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 74 . amendment 76 , page 139 , line 7 , leave out paragraph ( d ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 74 . clause 163 - licensing of electricity system operator activity Amendment make : 166 , page 142 , line 11 , leave out subsection ( 11 ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . clause 173 - financial assistance for the ISOP Amendment make : 77 , page 148 , line 31 , leave out " in or security of " and insert " or any other interest in , or security of , " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . clause 177 - Interpretation of Part 5 Amendment make : 78 , page 150 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part , reference to the ISOP ' s function be to any function that be exercisable by the person for the time be designate as the ISOP ( whether they be exercisable in the person ' s capacity as the ISOP or in another capacity ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment clarify that reference in Part 5 to the ISOP ' s function include any function that be exercisable by the person for the time be designate as the ISOP , regardless of the capacity in which such function be exercisable by the person . clause 200 - competitive tender for electricity project Amendment make : 79 , page 165 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) the power confer by section 325 ( 1 ) ( consequential provision ) include , in particular , power to amend provision insert in the Electricity Act 1989 by Schedule 15 where the amendment be consequential on the come into force of paragraph 4 of Schedule 11 . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment clarify that the power under clause 325 ( 1 ) include power to amend provision insert in the Electricity Act 1989 by Schedule 15 , in consequence of the come into force of the amendment of section 4 of that Act by paragraph 4 of schedule 11 . clause 212 - smart meter : extension of time for exercise of power Amendment make : 103 , page 179 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) subsection ( 3b ) and ( 3c ) apply if this section come into force after 1 November 2023 . ( 3b ) section 89 ( 1 ) of the Energy Act 2008 ( duty to consult on modification ) may be satisfy by consultation before , as well as by consultation after , 1 November 2023 . ( 3c ) where — ( a ) on or before 1 November 2023 the Secretary of State have , in accordance with section 89 ( 3 ) of the Energy Act 2008 , lay before Parliament a draft of propose modification under section 88 of that Act , and ( b ) on that date the 40 - day period refer to in section 89 ( 4 ) of that Act have not expire , in calculate that 40 - day period no account be to be take of the period begin with 2 November 2023 and end immediately before the day on which this section come into force . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment make provision deal with transitional issue that would arise if clause 212 be to come into force after 1 November 2023 ( when the power under section 88 of the Energy Act 2008 cease to be exercisable ) . clause 216 - heat network regulation Amendments make : 219 , page 181 , line 13 , leave out " provision amend or repeal primary legislation " and insert " — ( a ) provision amend or repeal an Act of Parliament , an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru or Northern Ireland legislation ; ( b ) provision amend the Heat Networks ( Scotland ) Act 2021 ( asp 9 ) . " this amendment clarify the primary legislation that may be amend or repeal by regulation under clause 216 ( heat network regulation ) , where the regulation make consequential , incidental , supplementary , transitional or save provision . so far as act of the Scottish Parliament be concern , only the Heat Networks ( Scotland ) Act 2021 may be amend ( but not repeal ) by such regulation . amendment 220 , page 181 , leave out line 18 to 24 . this amendment remove the requirement for the Secretary of State to consult the Scottish Ministers before make regulation under clause 216 that contain provision within devolved legislative competence . the requirement be supersede by the more detailed provision set out in NC65 . amendment 221 , page 181 , line 25 , leave out " or ( 8 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 220 . amendment 222 , page 181 , leave out line 32 to 36 . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment remove the definition of " primary legislation " , which be no long need as a result of Amendment 219 . clause 217 - heat network regulation : procedure Amendment make : 223 , page 182 , line 12 , leave out " primary legislation ( as define in section 216 ) " and insert " legislation mention in section 216 ( 5 ) " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 219 . clause 220 - heat network : enforcement in Scotland Amendment make : 224 , page 184 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the Secretary of State may make regulation under this section only if the Secretary of State have also make regulation under section 219 ( 1 ) ( and those regulation be still in force ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment provide that regulation to make provision about monitor compliance with , and enforce , condition of heat network licence issue under section 5 ( 5 ) of the Heat Networks ( Scotland ) Act 2021 may not be make if no regulation have be make designate the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority as the licensing authority for the purpose of that Act . clause 246 - power to make energy performance regulation Amendments make : 182 , page 205 , line 15 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . this amendment enable energy performance regulation to be make by the Scottish Ministers in relation to Scotland and by the Department of Finance in relation to Northern Ireland . amendment 183 , page 206 , line 17 , at end insert — " " the appropriate authority " mean — ( a ) in relation to England and Wales , the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in relation to Scotland , the Scottish Ministers ; ( c ) in relation to Northern Ireland , the Department ; " this amendment define " the appropriate authority " for the purpose of amendment 182 and 185 . amendment 184 , page 206 , line 19 , at end insert — " " the Department " mean the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment define " the Department " for the purpose of Part 10 . clause 248 - Sanctions Amendment make : 185 , page 207 , line 40 , leave out " Secretary of State " and insert " appropriate authority " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment enable the amount specify in clause 248 ( 2 ) ( maximum civil penalty for which energy performance regulation may provide ) to be amend for the purpose of reflect inflation by the Scottish Ministers in relation to Scotland and by the Department of Finance in relation to Northern Ireland . clause 249 - Regulations under Part 10 Amendments make : 186 , page 208 , line 9 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert " primary legislation " . this amendment enable energy performance regulation to amend , reveal or revoke provision make by or under an Act of the Scottish Parliament or Northern Ireland legislation . amendment 187 , page 208 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) regulation under this Part contain provision within subsection ( 2 ) ( with or without other provision ) — ( a ) if make by the Secretary of State , be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 327 ) ; ( b ) if make by the Scottish Ministers , be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) ; ( c ) if make by the Department , may not be make unless a draft of the regulation have be lay before and approve by a resolution of the Northern Ireland Assembly . " this amendment ensure that energy performance regulation that would be subject to the affirmative procedure if make by the Secretary of State be subject to equivalent procedure where make by the Scottish Ministers or by the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland . amendment 188 , page 208 , line 11 , leave out from begin to end of line 12 and insert " the provision within this subsection be — " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 187 . amendment 189 , page 208 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( but exclude provision make by virtue of section 248 ( 7 ) ( inflation - relate adjustment ) ) " . this amendment clarify that provision amend the cap on civil penalty to reflect inflation do not attract the affirmative procedure ( or equivalent procedure in Scotland or Northern Ireland ) . amendment 190 , page 208 , line 17 , leave out " an Act of Parliament " and insert " primary legislation " . this amendment ensure that provision amend or repealing provision make by an Act of the Scottish Parliament , an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru or Northern Ireland legislation be subject to equivalent affirmative procedure in the relevant devolved legislature . Amendment 191 , page 208 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) any other regulation under this part — ( a ) if make by the Secretary of State , be subject to the negative procedure ( see section 327 ) ; ( b ) if make by the Scottish Ministers , be subject to the negative procedure ( see section 28 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) ; ( c ) if make by the Department , be subject to negative resolution within the meaning give by section 41 ( 6 ) of the Interpretation Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1954 ( c . 33 ( N . I . ) ) . " this amendment clarify that energy performance regulation that do not contain provision within subsection ( 2 ) be subject to the affirmative procedure if make by the Secretary of State and to equivalent procedure where make by the Scottish Ministers or by the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland . amendment 192 , page 208 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) a power of the Department to make regulation under this Part be exercisable by statutory rule for the purpose of the Statutory Rules ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1979 ( s . I . 1979 / 1573 ( N . I . 12 ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on Amendments 182 and 185 . amendment 193 , page 208 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) in this section " primary legislation " mean — ( a ) an Act of Parliament , ( b ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament , ( c ) an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru , or ( d ) Northern Ireland legislation . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment define " primary legislation " for the purpose of Amendment 186 . clause 259 - ESOS regulation : procedure etc Amendments make : 225 , page 218 , line 26 , leave out from begin to end of line 32 . this amendment remove the requirement for the Secretary of State to consult the devolved administration so far as ESOS regulation make provision within devolved legislative competence . that requirement be supersede by the more detailed provision make by Amendment 226 . amendment 226 , page 218 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) before make ESOS regulation that contain provision within devolved competence , the Secretary of State must give notice — ( a ) state that the Secretary of State propose to make ESOS regulation , ( b ) set out or describe the provision of the regulation that contain provision within devolved competence , and ( c ) specify the period ( of not less than 28 day from the date on which the notice be give ) within which representation may be make with respect to those provision , and must consider any representation duly make and not withdraw . ( 2b ) a notice under subsection ( 2A ) must be give to each relevant devolve authority , that be to say — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , so far as the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence ; ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , so far as the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence ; ( c ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , so far as the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence . ( 2C ) the Secretary of State need not wait until the end of the period specify under subsection ( 2A ) ( c ) before make ESOS regulation if , before the end of that period , each relevant devolve authority to which the notice be give have confirm that it have make any representation it intend to make with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2A ) ( b ) . ( 2D ) the Secretary of State must , if request to do so by a relevant devolved authority , give the authority a statement set out whether and how representation make by the authority with respect to the provision refer to in subsection ( 2A ) ( b ) have be take into account in the regulation . ( 2e ) reference in subsection ( 2A ) to provision within devolved competence be to provision that be within Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland devolve competence . ( 2F ) where the Secretary of State make ESOS regulation that have effect in relation to the compliance period begin on 6 December 2019 ( see regulation 4 of the Energy Savings Opportunity Schemes Regulations 2014 ( S . I . 2014 / 1643 ) ) — ( a ) subsection ( 2A ) to ( 2e ) do not apply , and ( b ) before make the regulation , the Secretary of State must consult — ( i ) the Scottish Ministers , so far as the regulation contain provision within Scottish devolve competence , ( ii ) the Welsh Ministers , so far as the regulation contain provision within Welsh devolve competence , and ( iii ) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland , so far as the regulation contain provision within Northern Ireland devolve competence , and subsection ( 2 ) apply to consultation under paragraph ( b ) as it apply to consultation under subsection ( 1 ) . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to carry out a consultation process with the devolved administration so far as ESOS regulation make provision within devolved legislative competence . amendment 227 , page 218 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment remove provision that enable ESOS regulation to make consequential provision amend primary legislation . the provision be no long think to be necessary . Amendment 228 , page 219 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( h ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 227 . amendment 229 , page 219 , line 20 , leave out subsection ( 8 ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 227 . clause 283 - financial assistance for resilience and continuity purpose Amendments make : 80 , page 237 , line 6 , leave out paragraph ( d ) and insert — " ( d ) the acquisition of share or any other interest in , or security of , a body corporate ; " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . Amendment 81 , page 237 , line 8 , leave out " investment by " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . clause 288 - Marine recovery fund Amendments make : 230 , page 241 , line 9 , leave out " for and in connection with the determination of the extent to which " and insert " enable a determination to be make , by or on behalf of the relevant person , as to whether ( and , if so , the extent to which ) " . this amendment , together with Amendment 233 , provide that regulation under clause 288 may enable a determination to be make , by the person who impose a compensation condition ( as define by clause 288 ( 5 ) ) , of the extent to which a payment into a recovery fund discharge the condition . amendment 231 , page 241 , line 11 , leave out " a person " and insert " another person " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 230 . amendment 232 , page 241 , line 14 , after " extent " insert " ( if any ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 230 . amendment 233 , page 241 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) " relevant person " , for the purpose of a determination make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , mean the person who impose the compensation condition . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 230 . Amendment 234 , page 241 , line 31 , at end insert — " , where the function relate to the operation or management of a marine recovery fund " . this amendment make it clear that only function of the Secretary of State that relate to the operation or management of a marine recovery fund be capable of be delegate by regulation under clause 288 . amendment 235 , page 241 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 8A ) Regulations make by virtue of subsection ( 7 ) ( c ) must provide that the delegation of a function — ( a ) to a scottish public authority require the consent of the Scottish Ministers ; ( b ) to a Welsh public authority require the consent of the Welsh Ministers ; ( c ) to a Northern Ireland public authority require the consent of daera . " this amendment provide that regulation under clause 288 that make provision for delegation of function to a Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland public authority must require the consent of the relevant devolve administration . amendment 236 , page 242 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 9a ) before make regulation under this section , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Scottish Ministers , so far as the regulation relate to relevant offshore wind activity in Scotland , ( b ) the Welsh Ministers , so far as the regulation relate to relevant offshore wind activity in Wales , ( c ) daera , so far as the regulation relate to relevant offshore wind activity in Northern Ireland , and ( d ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . " this amendment impose a consultation requirement on the Secretary of State before make regulation under clause 288 ( include a requirement to consult the devolved administration to the extent that the regulation relate to activity in their area ) . amendment 237 , page 242 , line 6 , leave out subsection ( 11 ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment leave out subsection ( 11 ) of clause 288 , the substance of which have be move into clause 291 ( see Amendment 242 ) . clause 289 - assessment of environmental effect etc Amendment make : 238 , page 242 , line 22 , leave out from " region " to end of line 23 . this amendment remove from clause 289 ( 2 ) ( a ) the reference to qualify Secretary of State function , as this be not consider necessary in relation to the scottish inshore region . Amendment 82 , page 243 , line 18 , leave out sub - paragraph ( ii ) . this amendment and Amendment 83 remove the ability for regulation under clause 289 ( 1 ) to disapply or modify right arise under the Habitats Directive . this be because of section 2 of the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , as a result of which such right will cease to be recognise or enforceable in domestic law . amendment 194 , page 244 , line 9 , leave out sub - paragraph ( iii ) . this amendment remove provision of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ( S . I . 2017 / 1012 ) from the list of provision that may be disapplie or modify by regulation under clause 289 ( 1 ) make by the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs in Northern Ireland . amendment 239 , page 244 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) Regulations make under this section by the Secretary of State — ( a ) may not provide for a function that be exercisable by a scottish public authority , a Welsh public authority or a Northern Ireland public authority to cease to be exercisable by that authority , and ( b ) to the extent that a function be exercisable by or on behalf of a scottish public authority , a Welsh public authority or a Northern Ireland public authority , may not provide for the function also to be exercisable to that extent by another person , but may ( subject to paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) ) modify such a function . " this amendment clarify that regulation make under clause 289 by the Secretary of State may not abolish function that be exercisable by a Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland public authority or provide for such function to be exercisable concurrently by another person . amendment 195 , page 244 , line 31 , after " authority " insert " or a specified person " . this amendment enable regulation under clause 289 to authorise the giving of direction by a person specify in the regulation ( as well as by the appropriate authority ) . the regulation could , for example , authorise the giving of direction by the person carry out an environmental assessment or by a devolved administration . Amendment 240 , page 244 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) but regulation make by the Secretary of State by virtue of subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) may not enable direction to be give — ( a ) to a scottish public authority by a person other than the Scottish Ministers ; ( b ) to a Welsh public authority by a person other than the Welsh Ministers . " this amendment prevent regulation under clause 289 authorise the giving of a direction to a Scottish or Welsh public authority by a person other than ( as the case may be ) the Scottish Ministers or the Welsh Ministers . Amendment 241 , page 245 , line 13 , leave out " the scottish inshore region , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 238 . amendment 83 , page 245 , line 15 , leave out from begin to end of line 21 . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 82 . clause 291 - Interpretation of Chapter 1 Amendment make : 242 , page 248 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) reference in this chapter — ( a ) to a scottish public authority be to the Scottish Ministers or any other public authority whose function be exercisable only or mainly in or as regard Scotland ; ( b ) to a Welsh public authority be to the Welsh Ministers or any other public authority whose function be exercisable only or mainly in or as regard Wales ; ( c ) to a Northern Ireland public authority be to a Northern Ireland department or any other public authority whose function be exercisable only or mainly in or as regard Northern Ireland . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment provide a chapter - wide proposition about the meaning of reference to a Scottish , Welsh or Northern Ireland public authority . clause 295 - Model clause of petroleum licence Amendments make : 84 , clause 295 , page 253 , line 17 , leave out " the " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . amendment 85 , clause 295 , page 253 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( za ) the Petroleum ( Production ) ( Landward Areas ) regulation 1995 ( S . I . 1995 / 1436 ) , ( zb ) the Petroleum ( Current Model Clauses ) Order 1999 ( S . I . 1999 / 160 ) , ( zc ) the Petroleum Licensing ( Exploration and Production ) ( Seaward and Landward Areas ) Regulations 2004 ( s . I . 2004 / 352 ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . amendment 86 , page 253 , line 19 , leave out " ( " the 2008 Regulations " ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . amendment 87 , page 253 , line 21 , leave out " ( " the 2014 Regulations " ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . amendment 88 , page 253 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) where a licence grant ( or have effect as if grant ) by the Oil and Gas Authority under the Petroleum ( Production ) Act 1934 or the Petroleum Act 1998 — ( a ) incorporate model clause amend by a paragraph of schedule 21 ( whether or not any provision of those model clause be modify or exclude ) , and ( b ) be in force immediately before that paragraph come into force , the licence have effect with the amendment provide for by that paragraph . " this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . amendment 89 , page 254 , line 5 , leave out " 2014 Regulations " and insert " Petroleum Licensing ( Exploration and Production ) ( Landward Areas ) regulation 2014 " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 102 . clause 298 - decommissioning of nuclear site etc amendment make : 90 , page 258 , line 6 , after " installation " insert " or a license disposal site " . this amendment , together with Amendment 91 , ensure , in relation to an installation for the disposal of nuclear matter , consistent determination of when a person ' s period of responsibility end irrespective of which regulatory framework ( nuclear site licensing or environmental permitting ) apply . amendment 91 , page 258 , line 34 , at end insert — " " license disposal site " mean a site that would be , or would at any time have be , a relevant disposal site but for section 7b ( 5 ) ( a ) ( nuclear site licence grant in respect of site ) ; " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 90 . clause 315 - financial assistance Amendments make : 92 , page 272 , line 28 , after " in " insert " , or security of , " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . amendment 93 , clause 315 , line 4 , after " in " insert " , or security of , " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 71 . clause 325 - power to make consequential provision Amendment make : 94 , page 281 , line 10 , leave out " this Act or any provision make " and insert — " provision make by or under this Act or " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment clarify the drafting of clause 325 ( 2 ) . clause 326 - Regulations Amendment make : 243 , page 282 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 11 ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment remove a clarification that be now think unnecessary . clause 328 - Extent Amendments make : 176 , page 282 , line 37 , leave out " chapter 1 and 3 " and insert " chapter 1 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 178 . amendment 177 , page 282 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( ca ) chapter 3 of Part 4 , except section ( renewable liquid heating fuel obligation ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 178 . amendment 196 , page 283 , line 2 , after " part " insert " 10 , " . this amendment provide that Part 10 of the Bill extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . amendment 178 , page 283 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( da ) section ( renewable liquid heating fuel obligation ) ; " . this amendment provide for the new clause insert by NC63 to extend to England and Wales and Scotland . amendment 244 , page 283 , line 19 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) chapter 2 of Part 8 extend to England and Wales only , subject to subsection ( 5 ) . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 196 . clause 329 - Commencement Amendments make : 104 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) in chapter 1 of Part 2 — ( i ) section 56 ; ( ii ) section 57 and 58 , so far as relate to hydrogen production revenue support contract and a hydrogen production counterparty ; ( iii ) section 65 and 66 ; ( iv ) section 81 ( 1 ) to ( 3 ) , so far as relate to a designation under section 65 ; ( v ) section 83 , so far as relate to hydrogen production revenue support contract and a hydrogen production counterparty ; ( vi ) section 85 and 88 , so far as relate to the exercise of any power that come into force in accordance with this paragraph ; and in this paragraph " hydrogen production revenue support contract " and " hydrogen production counterparty " have the same meaning as in that chapter ; " this amendment provide for certain provision of chapter 1 of Part 2 to come into force on Royal Assent , so far as they relate to hydrogen production revenue support contract . amendment 105 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section 128 ; " . this amendment provide for clause 128 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 106 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) chapter 1 of Part 4 ; " . this amendment provide for chapter 1 of Part 4 to come into force on Royal Assent . Amendment 107 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section 153 ; " . this amendment provide for clause 153 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 108 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section 156 ; " . this amendment provide for clause 156 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 109 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) in Part 5 — ( i ) section 166 and 167 ; ( ii ) section 171 ( include Schedule 9 ) and section 172 ( include Schedule 10 ) ; ( iii ) section 175 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , so far as relate to other provision in force by virtue of this paragraph ; ( iv ) section 177 and 178 ; " . this amendment provide for certain provision of Part 5 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 110 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section 200 ( include Schedule 15 ) ; " . this amendment provide for clause 200 and Schedule 15 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 169 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section ( revenue certainty scheme for sustainable aviation fuel producer : consultation and report ) ; " . this amendment provide for the new clause insert by NC52 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 179 , page 283 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( za ) section ( renewable liquid heating fuel obligation ) ; " . this amendment provide for the new clause insert by NC63 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 111 , page 283 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section 212 ; " . this amendment provide for clause 212 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 112 , page 283 , line 36 , after " section " insert " 302 , " . this amendment provide for clause 302 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 113 , page 283 , line 37 , leave out " chapter 3 " and insert " Chapters 3 and 4 " . this amendment provide for chapter 4 of Part 14 to come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 114 , page 284 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) chapter 1 to 3 , 5 and 6 of Part 2 , so far as not already in force by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 104 and 105 . amendment 115 , page 284 , line 6 , leave out " chapter 2 of Part 4 " and insert " section 152 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 107 . amendment 116 , page 284 , line 7 , leave out " , 156 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 108 . amendment 117 , page 284 , line 9 , leave out paragraph ( g ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 110 . amendment 118 , page 284 , line 10 , leave out " 212 " and insert " 211 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 111 . Amendment 119 , page 284 , line 14 , leave out paragraph ( l ) . this amendment remove clause 294 from the list of provision that come into force two month after Royal Assent . amendment 120 , page 284 , line 16 , leave out paragraph ( n ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 113 . schedule 8 - carbon storage information and sample : appeal Amendments make : 95 , page 323 , line 7 , after " decision " insert — " to terminate the carbon storage licence or " . this amendment add to paragraph 5 ( 3 ) of Schedule 8 a right of appeal against a decision to terminate a carbon storage licence . amendment 96 , page 323 , line 32 , after " decision " insert " to terminate a carbon storage licence , " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment add to paragraph 5 ( 8 ) of Schedule 8 a reference to an appeal against a decision to terminate a carbon storage licence . schedule 9 - Independent System Operator and Planner : pension amendment make : 97 , page 326 , line 39 , leave out " or right " and insert " , right or liability " . this amendment align the language use in paragraph 6 ( 1 ) ( a ) of Schedule 9 with that use in paragraph 8 ( 6 ) ( j ) of Schedule 12 . amendment 98 , page 327 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) any requirement impose on a person by a transfer scheme be enforceable by the Secretary of State in civil proceeding — ( a ) for an injunction , ( b ) for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of Session Act 1988 , or ( c ) for any other appropriate remedy or relief . " this amendment provide for the civil enforcement of a requirement impose on a person by a transfer scheme under paragraph 1 of schedule 9 . amendment 99 , page 328 , line 9 , leave out " appoint by the Secretary of State and the transferor " . this amendment remove word that be no long consider necessary . amendment 100 , page 328 , line 15 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 4 ) . this amendment leave out paragraph 8 ( 4 ) of Schedule 9 , which be no long think to be need . Amendment 197 , page 329 , line 27 , leave out " , land and building transaction tax , land transaction tax " . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment remove land and building transaction tax ( in Scotland ) and land transaction tax ( in Wales ) from the taxis in relation to which the Treasury may make regulation under paragraph 9 of schedule 9 . schedule 10 - Independent System Operator and Planner : pension Amendment make : 101 , page 336 , line 17 , leave out paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) and insert — " ( a ) such specified pension information , or ( b ) such specify assistance , as the Secretary of State may reasonably require in preparation for or in connection with the exercise of a power confer on the Secretary of State by this schedule . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment clarify that the power to require pension information may ( like the power to require assistance ) be exercise where the Secretary of State reasonably require the information in connection with the exercise of power under Schedule 10 . schedule 14 - minor and consequential amendment relate to Part 6 amendment make : 135 , page 350 , line 26 , leave out from " in " to " of " in line 28 and insert — " a notice under section 181 ( 1 ) of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designate central system ( within the meaning of Part 6 " . this amendment correct a minor drafting error . amendment 136 , page 350 , line 36 , leave out from " in " to " of " in line 1 on page 351 and insert — " a notice under section 181 ( 1 ) of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designate central system ( within the meaning of Part 6 " . this amendment correct a minor drafting error . amendment 137 , page 351 , line 14 , leave out from " in " to " of " in line 16 and insert — " a notice under section 181 ( 1 ) of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designate central system ( within the meaning of Part 6 " . this amendment correct a minor drafting error . Amendment 138 , page 351 , line 24 , leave out from " in " to " of " in line 25 and insert — " a notice under section 181 ( 1 ) of the Energy Act 2023 in relation to a designate central system ( within the meaning of Part 6 " . this amendment correct a minor drafting error . amendment 167 , page 352 , line 18 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . amendment 168 , page 352 , line 31 , leave out paragraph ( d ) . — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 148 . schedule 21 - petroleum licence : amendment to model clause Amendment make : 102 , page 416 , line 16 , at end insert — " Part A1 - Petroleum ( Production ) ( Landward Areas ) regulation 1995 A1 in the Petroleum ( Production ) ( Landward Areas ) regulation 1995 ( S . I . 1995 / 1436 ) , Schedule 3 ( model clause for petroleum exploration and development licence in landward area ) be amend as follow . A2 after clause 37 insert — " 37a change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 37 ( 4 ) . " a3 ( 1 ) clause 38 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 37a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Petroleum Act 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A4 ( 1 ) clause 38a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 37a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 37a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part A2 - Petroleum ( Current Model Clauses ) Order 1999 introduction A5 the Petroleum ( Current Model Clauses ) Order 1999 ( S . I . 1999 / 160 ) be amend in accordance with this Part of this Schedule . part 2 of Schedule 2 A6 Part 2 of schedule 2 ( current model clause for control water or seaward production licence derive from Schedule 2 to the 1964 Regulations and Schedule 4 to the 1966 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph a7 to A9 . A7 after clause 38 insert — " 38a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 38 ( 4 ) . " A8 ( 1 ) clause 39 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 38a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . a9 ( 1 ) clause 39a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 38a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 38a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 3 A10 Part 2 of Schedule 3 ( current model clause for landward production licence derive from Schedule 3 to the 1966 regulation ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A11 to A13 . A11 after clause 36 insert — " 36a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 36 ( 3 ) . " A12 ( 1 ) clause 37 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 36a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A13 ( 1 ) clause 37a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 36a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 36a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of schedule 4 A14 Part 2 of schedule 4 ( current model clause for landward production licence derive from Schedule 4 to the 1976 Regulations or Schedule 4 to the 1982 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A15 to A17 . A15 after clause 37 insert — " 37a change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 37 ( 3 ) . " A16 ( 1 ) clause 38 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 37a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A17 ( 1 ) clause 38a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 37a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 37a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 5 A18 Part 2 of schedule 5 ( current model clause for seaward production licence derive from Schedule 5 to the 1976 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A19 to A21 . A19 after clause 39 insert — " 39a change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 39 ( 4 ) . " A20 ( 1 ) clause 40 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 39a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A21 ( 1 ) clause 40a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 40 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 40 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 39a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 40 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 39a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 40 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 6 A22 Part 2 of Schedule 6 ( current model clause for seaward production licence derive from Schedule 5 to the 1982 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A23 to A25 . A23 after clause 38 insert — " 38a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 38 ( 4 ) . " A24 ( 1 ) clause 39 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 38a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A25 ( 1 ) clause 39a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 38a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 38a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 8 A26 Part 2 of schedule 8 ( current model clause for landward development licence derive from Schedule 5 to the 1984 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A27 to A29 . a27 after clause 35 insert — " 35a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 35 ( 3 ) . " A28 ( 1 ) clause 36 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 35a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A29 ( 1 ) clause 36a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 35a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 35a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 9 A30 Part 2 of schedule 9 ( current model clause for seaward production licence derive from Schedule 4 to the 1988 Regulations as they have effect before 16 December 1996 ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A31 to A33 . A31 after clause 41 insert — " 41A Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 41 ( 4 ) . " A32 ( 1 ) clause 42 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 41a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A33 ( 1 ) clause 42a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 41a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 41a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 10 A34 Part 2 of Schedule 10 ( current model clause for seaward production licence derive from Schedule 4 to the 1988 Regulations as they have effect on and after 16 December 1996 ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A35 to A37 . A35 after clause 41 insert — " 41A Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 41 ( 4 ) . " a36 ( 1 ) clause 42 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 41a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A37 ( 1 ) clause 42a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 41a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 41a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 42 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 13 A38 Part 2 of Schedule 13 ( current model clause for landward appraisal licence derive from Schedule 5 to the 1991 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A39 to A41 . A39 after clause 32 insert — " 32a change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 32 ( 3 ) . " A40 ( 1 ) clause 33 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( h ) insert — " ( i ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 32a ) ; ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Petroleum Act 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( f ) " insert " or ( i ) or ( j ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A41 ( 1 ) clause 33a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 33 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( f ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 32a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 33 ( 2 ) ( i ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 32a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 33 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . part 2 of Schedule 14 A42 Part 2 of Schedule 14 ( current model clause for landward development licence derive from Schedule 6 to the 1991 Regulations ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A43 to A45 . A43 after clause 34 insert — " 34a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 34 ( 3 ) . " A44 ( 1 ) clause 35 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 34a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act of 1998 ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . a45 ( 1 ) clause 35a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 35 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 35 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 34a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 35 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 34a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 35 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . Part a3 - Petroleum Licensing ( Exploration and Production ) ( Seaward and Landward Areas ) Regulations 2004 Introduction A46 the Petroleum Licensing ( Exploration and Production ) ( Seaward and Landward Areas ) Regulations 2004 ( s . I . 2004 / 352 ) be amend in accordance with this Part of this Schedule . schedule 2 A47 Schedule 2 ( model clause for production licence relate to frontier area — no break clause ) be amend in accordance with paragraph a48 to A50 . a48 after clause 37 insert — " 37a change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 37 ( 4 ) . " A49 ( 1 ) clause 38 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 37a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A50 ( 1 ) clause 38a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( ee ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 37a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 37a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 38 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . schedule 3 A51 Schedule 3 ( model clause for production licence relate to frontier area — include break clause ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A52 to A54 . A52 after clause 38 insert — " 38a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 38 ( 4 ) . " A53 ( 1 ) clause 39 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 38a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A54 ( 1 ) clause 39a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( ee ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 38a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 38a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 39 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . schedule 4 A55 schedule 4 ( model clause for standard production licence ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A56 to A58 . A56 after clause 36 insert — " 36a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 36 ( 4 ) . " A57 ( 1 ) clause 37 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 36a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . a58 ( 1 ) clause 37a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( ee ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 36a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 36a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 37 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . schedule 6 A59 Schedule 6 ( model clause for petroleum exploration and development licence ) be amend in accordance with paragraph A60 to A62 . A60 after clause 35 insert — " 35a Change in control of Licensee ( 1 ) this clause apply if — ( a ) the Licensee be a company , or ( b ) where two or more person be the Licensee , any of those person be a company , and reference in this clause to a company be to such a company . ( 2 ) a change in control of a company be not permit without the consent of the Oil and Gas Authority ( " the OGA " ) . ( 3 ) there be a " change in control " of a company if a person take control of the company , not have previously be a person who control the company . ( 4 ) if a change in control of a company be contemplate , the company must apply in writing to the OGA for consent at least three month before the date on which it be propose that the change would occur ( if consent be give ) . ( 5 ) the OGA may — ( a ) consent to the change in control unconditionally , ( b ) consent to the change in control subject to condition , or ( c ) refuse consent to the change in control . ( 6 ) if the OGA propose to grant consent subject to any condition or to refuse consent , the OGA must , before make a final decision — ( a ) give the company an opportunity to make representation , and ( b ) consider any representation that be make . ( 7 ) the general rule be that the OGA must decide an application within three month of receive it , but the OGA may delay its decision by notify the interested party in writing . ( 8 ) condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) may be impose on the person take control of the company ( as well as on the company ) , and may include — ( a ) condition relate to the arrangement for the change in control , include the date by which it must occur , ( b ) condition relate to the performance of activity permit by this licence , and ( c ) financial condition . ( 9 ) the OGA ' s decision on the application , and any condition as mention in paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) , must be notify in write to the interested party . ( 10 ) in this clause " the interested party " mean — ( a ) the company , ( b ) the person who ( if consent be grant ) would take control of the company , and ( c ) if the company and another person or person be the Licensee , that other person or those other person . ( 11 ) for the purpose of this clause , the question of whether a person have control of a company be to be determine in accordance with the test set out in clause 35 ( 4 ) . " A61 ( 1 ) clause 36 ( power of revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( i ) insert — " ( j ) if the Licensee be a company , any breach of a condition subject to which the Oil and Gas Authority give its consent to a change in control of the Licensee ( see clause 35a ) ; ( k ) if the Licensee be a company , any failure to provide full and accurate information in response to a notice give by the Oil and Gas Authority to that company under section 5D of the Act ; " ; ( b ) in the closing word , after " ( g ) " insert " or ( j ) or ( k ) " . ( 3 ) omit paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . A62 ( 1 ) clause 36a ( power of partial revocation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for paragraph ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this clause apply in a case where two or more person be the Licensee and — ( a ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( ee ) or ( g ) occur in relation to one of those person ; ( b ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( b ) occur which consist of a breach of clause 35a ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) in relation to a change in control of one of those person ; ( c ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( j ) occur in relation to a change in control of one of those person ( see clause 35a ) ; or ( d ) an event mention in clause 36 ( 2 ) ( k ) occur which consist of a failure by one of those person as mention in that provision . " ( 3 ) in paragraph ( 2 ) , for " or ( b ) " substitute " , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( d ) " . " — ( Claire Coutinho . ) this amendment update the change in control provision in certain historical set of model clause that be incorporate in old licence . the new provision be substantively the same as those already include in the 2008 and 2014 regulation by virtue of clause 295 and Schedule 21 . third read King ' s and Prince of Wales ' s consent signify . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Crispin Blunt Peter Bone Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Nicola Richards Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson Andrew Bridgen Gregory Campbell Philip Davies Jeffrey M . Donaldson Richard Drax Iain Duncan Smith Paul Girvan Carla Lockhart Craig Mackinlay Karl McCartney Ian Paisley Jnr John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Henry Smith Desmond Swayne Sammy Wilson Scott Benton Philip Hollobone the House divide : Ayes 280 , Noes 19 . question accordingly agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass , with amendment . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board ( Amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 June , be approve . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft Police Act 1997 ( Criminal Record Certificates : Relevant Matter ) ( Amendment ) ( England and Wales ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 19 June , be approve . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) question agree to . Petition - Wilby way Roundabout Wilby way roundabout separate the village of Wilby from Wellingborough and the large Sainsbury ' s . it be an extremely dangerous roundabout on a dual carriageway . with more car come down it because of the increase housing in my constituency , it need a proper crossing . if someone be kill , we would have a crossing the next day . let we have the crossing before someone be kill . Councillor Lora Lawman have get together a petition with nearly 1 , 000 signature on it . it be also support by Councillor Stephen Borrett and Councillor George Thompson . the petition state : the Humble Petition of the resident of Wellingborough , Northamptonshire and the surround area , Sheweth , that the Wilby way roundabout , between the a509 , A5400 and the a5128 be extremely dangerous to cross for pedestrian and cyclist ; far that the increase volume of traffic due to the housing development in and around Wellingborough have cause cross this roundabout to become increasingly difficult and dangerous . the petitioner pray that your Honourable House urge the Government to work with North Northamptonshire Council to consider the concern of the petitioner and ensure that measure be implement which will make cross the Wilby Way roundabout safe for pedestrian and cyclist . and your petitioner , as duty bind , will ever pray , etc . [ p002849 ] Local Bank Branch Closures Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Andrew Stephenson . ) for be the party of the bank and the banker , the Tories have a shocking record of keep bank on our local high street . it speak to a pattern of this Government prioritise profit over people . this be my first Adjournment debate , I be proud to hold it on a topic important to my constituent , give the state of local bank branch closure in East Dunbartonshire , but I be frustrate and disappoint that this issue be on all our mind . despite the severity of the topic , I be very much look forward to an intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the highlight of every Adjournment debate , as you will be only too familiar with , Mr Deputy Speaker . first of all , I commend the hon . Lady for bring this subject forward . the Scottish National party have be at the fore in headline the issue of bank closure , and I wish to add my support . it be an increase problem back home — Northern Ireland have lose 27 % of bank branch in the last three year , accord to statistic from the Consumer Council . one of those be a Barclays bank branch in Newtownards , where I have my office . for rural constituent , it mean they have to drive up to 40 minute to the near Barclays in the neighbouring constituency , or take a taxi or a bus . do the hon . Lady agree that bank branch be crucial to the economy , especially the rural economy , and that the frequent closure of local branch be do more harm than good for customer ? the hon . Lady be to be congratulate on bring this issue forward . I could not agree more . I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention — I kick he into gear , didn ' t I ? it be much appreciated . local bank branch be close right across Scotland , and at a high rate than in the rest of the UK . while avoid the hon . Lady ' s rhetoric in the opening of her speech , I agree that the closing of bank in locality — particularly in Dewsbury , Mirfield and Ossett in the area I represent — be a big issue . the banking sector be bring forward a number of initiative , one of which be a banking hub , which bring bank together in a town centre building . have she consider that as an option , and would she be in favour of it ? I will answer the hon . member ' s question in a second , but it be certainly not rhetoric to say that the Tory Government have not step up anywhere near enough to support our community and people who be struggle through the cost of living crisis . we need local bank branch . Hubs be an alternative , though they be not good enough , but I welcome his point of view . we would be lucky to have as many bank branch open in our constituency as have close in the recent year . at least 265 local branch be set to close this year alone , and 62 parliamentary constituency be down to one or no local bank . the UK have lose over half its bank network since 2015 , which speak volume after 13 year of Tory rule . how many more bank do we have to lose before the Minister kick into gear ? on the point about have lose over half the bank in the UK since 2015 , I would like to go over the figure . do the hon . Lady recognise that over 5 , 700 branch have close since 2015 or be set to close , leave only 4 , 000 , at a time when bank be pull in record profit ? what be most despicable about this situation be that bank have record profit , but be not invest they in our community . our constituent , particularly those who be vulnerable , need bank to maintain their presence on our local high street . it be incumbent on Government to act and to incentivise bank to have a high street presence . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . the support she be get from across the House be quite tell . Rural Scotland have be batter by bank and post office closure in recent year . the Bank of Scotland plan to close its dunoon branch on 5 December . we have see how this work : the bank close a branch , they advise we to use the post office and , all too often , the post office close . I have make my feeling very clear about that particular closure , but will my hon . friend join I in congratulate the people of Dunoon , particularly Dinah McDonald , who from her shop Bookpoint be lead the community fightback by gather 1 , 000 local signature to petition Lloyds to reverse this ill thought out and ill conceive idea and decision ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention and throw my full weight behind the campaign of the people of Dunoon . we know good folk come from Argyll and Bute , so I be very happy to support that campaign . my constituent in East Dunbartonshire have suffer from this trend , watch bank after bank close its door . seven local bank have close since 2020 , most recently Barclays in Kirkintilloch and the Bank of Scotland in Bearsden — similar to my hon . friend ' s experience . fortunately , a Bank of Scotland branch remain in Milngavie , but for how long ? I will continue to set out the need for action and Government intervention as I progress my case for the continued need for high street bank , but I will start with a couple of question for the Minister . I would appreciate some comment from he on they when he give his response . what be the Government do to incentivise bank to maintain a high street presence ? do the Government recognise why that be important and necessary , and if they do , why the hesitance to intervene ? that hesitancy be to the detriment of our constituent , particularly those who be vulnerable . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . it be about eight week since I introduce my ten - minute rule Bill , the Banking and Postal Services ( Rural Areas ) Bill , to Parliament and the Government have do nothing . they talk about banking hub as some kind of solution , but there be a handful of they only and delivery be absolutely glacial . the point my hon . friend be make in her excellent speech be that these facility for local people will be close down , especially in rural area , before there be any substitute for they to provide the service that people need . do she not agree ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , and I welcome that intervention . it be to the detriment of our constituent , because the bank and the Government be not step up quickly enough or at all to support those who need these vital service . many constituent have be in touch with I in the run - up to this debate flag up the particular impact local bank branch closure have on those who be vulnerable . elderly people and those with physical or mental disability may struggle with online banking , and will be particularly affect by have to travel great distance to access in - person banking service . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for give way when she be make such an excellent speech . on vulnerable people and their access to cash , do she believe that government inaction be in part to blame for the hiatus that happen when the last bank close , like the Bank of Scotland do in Brechin last year ? the entire community then have to wait not to see when but if they will get a banking hub . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . it be the hesitancy and uncertainty that have such a detrimental impact on community such as Brechin . for vulnerable people , the internet often feel like an unfamiliar and unsafe place to handle their money . for they , the advice and reassurance they can only get from an in - person bank teller be vital . for they , the extra mile to the next near bank branch might be too far to travel . on the question of the additional distance to travel , may I flag up the experience of my constituent in Buckhaven when TSB close a branch there a few year ago ? it very kindly produce a wee map show the location of the near TSB bank in High Street , Methil . the only problem be that it be not in High Street , Methil ; it be in High Street , Leven — not only a different town , but a different constituency . the address it give in High Street , Methil be part of the old high street that be demolish 40 year ago to make way for housing . do my hon . friend agree that it be just an insult to constituent and to community when a bank that have take the decision to close a service be so ignorant that it can not even be bother to send somebody to walk the distance to make sure the bank it be direct people to actually exist ? I thank my hon . friend for that . that be a frustration we share . the map send out by many a bank branch be complicated and sometimes not relevant to the community that they be be send to , so I completely agree . just last night it be flag to I that an elderly constituent of mine live in Kirkintilloch with a brain injury have be struggle to access banking service since the closure of Barclays in the town centre . the shift to centralised bank hub like Barclays in Glasgow bring with it a litany of issue , such as the confusion and accessibility issue my constituent be experience . with every local bank branch closure I be assure of two thing upon meeting with the bank in question : there will be no forced redundancy , and all vulnerable customer have be contact and bank staff will work with they to have a seamless transition to their next close bank . but my constituency casework be proof that for far too many people , that be just not enough . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and be be extremely generous with her time . the closure of local bank branch have an impact on member in all part of the House , as we have hear this evening and as I say when I speak about the subject in my first Adjournment debate last year . on that day , HSBC have announce that it be close 69 branch across the four nation . since then the Government have introduce what be now the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , but it have fail to address the issue of bank branch closure . I receive numerous complaint from my constituent about the fact there be no bank leave , and about the limited access to free - to - use atm . in fact , just this afternoon I receive an email about that from a constituent . do my hon . friend agree that more action must be take to ensure that our high street do not become banking ghost town ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . there be cash desert across Scotland now , and the Government should reflect on that and take new action . as my hon . friend will know , the Bank of Scotland want to close its branch in Glasgow ' s Govan ward , which mean that 30 , 000 people will be without a bank ; but there be another problem . when a bank close , its ATM close as well , and in my experience when a bank close its ATM , the other ATMs that be free start charge . that be another attack on vulnerable customer , be it not ? it be as if my hon . friend have read my mind . that be exactly what I be about to mention . People on low income often use cash to budget , and more and more of our constituent will be do so as the cost of live crisis worsen . evidence from which ? indicate that there be 130 of those cash desert in Scotland — place where there be no access to either a branch or an ATM within a reasonable distance . I thank the hon . Lady for allow I to intervene , and for initiate this important debate . it be clear that online banking be not for everyone , and that we must have physical banking service in town . I be delighted that Stapleford , in my constituency , be to have a new banking hub , which be on track for delivery in January 2024 , but there be concern about town in Broxtowe such as Beeston lose these vital service . do the hon . Lady agree that we must continue to ensure that community have access to physical cash and banking service ? I agree that it be vital for community to have access to cash and localise banking service . it be hardly surprising that a Tory MP have a banking hub come to his constituency , but I thank the hon . gentleman for flag that up , because it be part of the problem that we be experience in Scotland . deprive people , many of whom may already be near the end of their financial tether , of access to cash heap one more thoroughly unwelcome stress on their life . it be entirely unreasonable to expect the entire population to bank online . there be also an argument to be make about fundraise charity and organisation , which often rely heavily on cash donation and payment . the lack of a local bank for cash deposit place an additional security risk on volunteer , cause extra pressure for both charity and individual . give the finding of Citizens Advice that 90 % of the population use a bank branch at some point and 40 % use a local bank branch at least once a month , keep bank on high street should not be in question . with each closure come the expect platitude and reassurance from the bank concern . we , as constituency member , engage in good faith and fight for our constituent to have access to local banking facility , but the fact be that there be no incentive for bank to maintain a high street presence , and without that incentive , bank be gradually shift to a far less localise business model . I return to my early point that in the absence of a Government incentive , the number of local bank branch will continue to erode . give that bank , and local bank branch in particular , provide an invaluable service for our community , it be incumbent on the Government to act and ensure that bank do not entirely withdraw from our high street . I have even hear from constituent across East Dunbartonshire who have switch bank so they can continue to have a local bank branch , only to find that their new bank have close its door month later . the point that I and other make with each of these bank branch closure be that the bank ' suggestion of post office and banking hub replace local bank branch do not stand up to scrutiny , as my hon . friend the Member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) say in his intervention . local post office be under considerable pressure and be also exit high street and town centre at an increase pace , include the closure of our local post office in Milngavie precinct . post office be not bank ; nor be they a suitable alternative to a bank . it be time the Government recognise that . our constituent be go to great length to access local banking facility , so why be the Government not help they ? another issue relate to the closure of local bank be the notable decline in the provision of free - to - use atm . there be more than 14 , 000 few than there be five year ago — a steep decline of 27 % — which again particularly impact those who be vulnerable . we all know the argument that bank make for the closure . they say that cash use be down by 65 % since 2015 and that that decline make their cash access network , include local branch and atm , less profitable . but I think we all understand that bank be not charity ; they be extremely profitable corporation whose profit have increase by 87 % , or £ 17 . 4 billion , since 2015 . with that massive windfall they can easily afford to maintain a basic cash access network — a service that our vulnerable constituent can not afford to lose — but that be exactly what we be see and the Government be do nothing to stop it . this be yet another in a long list of example of how this Union be fail Scotland . we on these Benches look forward to Scotland regain her independence — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I thank member for their support . independence , when we will no long have an unkind , uncare Westminster Government , who we have not vote for , erode our living standard and our high street . Scotland ' s street and Scotland ' s bank be safe in Scotland ' s hand . the time have come for Scotland ' s people to take back our self - government and build a bright future . I thank the contributor on both side of the House , include my hon . friend the Members for Dewsbury ( Mark Eastwood ) and for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , and of course the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) for secure this debate , which have rightly give her constituent a voice on something that they feel very strongly about . I know there be real strength of feeling across the House about this subject , but it fall to I to be clear that the nature of banking be change . as in so many other area of the modern world , the long - term trend , whether we like it or not , be towards great use of digital or telephone service . accord to UK Finance , last year only a third of UK adult have carry out any banking activity face to face in a branch . the hon . Lady talk about Kirkintilloch , but 94 % of those who use that branch also use the app , mobile or telephone service . the bank assert — whether this be right or not I do not know — that few than 10 people be regularly use the branch . in the same period of time last year , nine out of 10 UK adult bank online or through a mobile app . More than nine in 10 of we be now use contactless payment method , include throughout this House , and only 6 % of people be now solely use cash . that be not limit to any particular demographic : 80 % of adult age between 65 and 74 use online and mobile banking as well , and less than a third of that age group regularly use a branch . give that the Minister and most of his ministerial colleague be so fond of online service everywhere else , can he explain why in these first two day back in Parliament Members have spend about three hour do nothing while troop through the Lobbies to vote when we could have on vote online in about two minute flat ? why be do thing in person the right thing to do here but the wrong thing to do everywhere else ? in the interest of time I will stick to the topic , but I be delighted that the hon . member be here in person , as indeed be you , Mr Deputy Speaker . Change be not comfortable , but it do happen . let we consider payphone . it would not surprise I if Hansard have record of similar debate about the decline of payphone . at one point , at their peak in the 1990 , there be almost 100 , 000 payphone in this country . today there be just a fraction of that number . technology have move on , and nearly everybody have access to either a landline or a mobile phone . by the same token , it would make little sense to force a business to keep a physical branch open when development in the market mean that eyeball and footfall have move elsewhere . nor would our high street be particularly well serve by bank branch gather dust and lie essentially unused . we need to find new use for they — perhaps the aspiration of the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire for independence will produce new use for these bank branch — in the same way that so many of our community and village today have a Blacksmith ' s Arms public house . what responsibility , if any , do the Minister think the Government have for these closure ? this idea that we can all be digital by default might work well in London , Glasgow , Edinburgh or wherever , but digital by default do not work in rural community . there need to be a solution for those who can not access these system , as he would have we all do . this government take responsibility , and I be just about to explain how , for the first time , we have take the statutory right to protect the use of cash . that have be on the statute book for a number of week after the House pass the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . it be also why we support the very rigorous guidance give by the Financial Conduct Authority in case where bank branch be close . will the Minister give way ? I will take an intervention . we be on the Adjournment and should be mindful of time . rural community be probably the large part of my constituency , and I have lose 12 or 13 rural bank . every one of they be a focal point for customer , which hit on the important point make by the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) . at the same time , every one of those bank have make extra profit and extra fee , which just do not add up . why not keep they open and share some of that dividend with all the customer who need the bank ? the hon . Gentleman be work his way towards one of the potential answer . colleague have mention the banking hub . when a bank seek to close a branch , the FCA process normally include consultation with the local Member of Parliament . the financial sector now have a consumer duty to think about put customer ' need first , which be one of their weighty duty . as we deal with this significant change , a number of alternative be in place . one be the local post office , and I believe there be still nine post office in East Dunbartonshire . as the bank ' business traffic coalesce , they can help to support the economic of a post office in a particular area . that be one opportunity . some 99 % of personal banking customer can transact in their local post office , and there be over 11 , 000 post office across the United Kingdom . a few moment ago , the Minister mention the Government ' s move to protect the right to use cash . what be the point of that right if people can not access cash in their community ? I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be deliberately fail to understand , but the protection of access to cash and the ability to deposit cash — that be important if we want business to continue to use and accept cash — have a requirement that people will have easy , convenient access to a free ATM within 3 mile in rural area and within 1 mile in urban area . that be the guidance we issue a matter of week ago . will the Minister give way ? I will take one final intervention , but hon . member would learn more if they allow I to make some progress . I thank the Minister for be most generous ; as he know , I have be try to intervene for a while . there be an important issue about free atm and those that charge . be he monitor that ? when a branch close , there be clear behaviour whereby the atm around and about start charge . I would be interested to see evidence of that . the pay - for atm simply do not count in any way towards the provision of free access to cash . in the constituency of the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire , there be 51 free - to - use atm . only those , not the one that charge for withdrawal , will count towards that condition of make sure our community have decent and continue access to cash . I understand that access to cash be just one thing and that an ATM do not provide the full range of banking service — the post office do — but we have start to talk about banking hub and more than 80 have be announce to date . I know that relatively few have be deliver but they be a relatively novel feature . if hon . member who be to have a banking hub would like to see that delivery , they should work with their local planning authority , as the big single impediment to open these new banking hub be get through the planning process . I know that my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) be look forward to a banking hub in his constituency . I make it a priority early this year to visit London ' s first banking hub , in Acton , and I recently visit the Brixham hub . the hon . member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) be certainly not a conservative , but I will be happy to work with colleague to put in place these state - of - the - art hub , which allow people not just to withdraw and deposit cash , but to carry out a much wide range of community banking service . that be very important . I be get frustrate with the Minister ' s response — I will carry on then ! [ laughter . ] if the Minister want to grow the frustration , that be fine ; it feel as though that be become a common pattern . it feel as though the Government and the Minister be try to place this into the hand of everyone else to deal with and that there be a lack of government intervention to try to solve this problem . nothing could be far from the truth . this Government have , for the first time in history , legislate for citizen of this country , include our good friend in Scotland , to have a legal , statutory right to access to cash . moreover , we have bring forward the practical , sustainable alternative of banking hub , to protect the ability of community to access a wide range of banking service . we have conduct agreement for almost every bank in the country and in Scotland to be able to conduct their business through the post office network , thereby help and save the post office in the community too . I think I have be clear . I understand that change be happen and people be not always comfortable with change . we be in the middle of a big technological shift . we all agree that people should have access to good - quality banking service . I contend that the Government be take the appropriate action and take this matter extremely seriously . question put and agree to . House adjourn .