thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to make my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Cannock Chase , my home . have listen to many maiden speech from all part of the House , I have to say that I be honour to be part of an incredibly talented intake — not that I be at all biased . I also have the privilege of follow some outstanding predecessor who be fondly remember by my constituent . the well know be the late , great Jennie Lee who represent the former Cannock constituency for 25 year and also serve as Minister for the Arts , play a key role in the foundation of the Open University . Jennie be recently cite by the Chancellor as one of her political hero and a contender to replace Nigel Lawson ' s portrait in her office . alongside her husband , the equally incomparable Aneurin Bevan , Jennie be commemorate across the constituency , include Jennie Lee Way in Rugeley and the Bevan Lee estate in Cannock . I could not speak about past member for Cannock Chase without pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Dr Tony Wright , who serve as MP for Cannock and Burntwood and later Cannock Chase from 1992 until 2010 . Tony be the epitome of a dedicated constituency MP . constituent regularly speak warmly of Tony and he win vote from across the political spectrum . if I can be half the MP Tony be , I will be able to look back on my time in this House with pride . I would also like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Dame Amanda Milling , who serve our constituency for nine year . Amanda be praise by both supporter and detractor alike for her efficient approach to casework , which I know would be the envy of many mps ' office . Amanda serve as a Government Whip for many year — not an easy job — and as Minister for Asia and the Middle East . I understand that Amanda also chair the group of female conservative mp and be a passionate advocate of programme that encourage woman to stand for election . I may not have often agree with Amanda politically , but I have always find she to be fair - minded , kind and decent , so I genuinely wish she all the good for the future . when people hear the word " Cannock Chase " , they naturally think of the stunning forest that be the constituency ' s namesake . while make their first speech , many new member have claim their constituency as the most beautiful in the land . however , I have to point out that my constituency be the only one in England that share its name with an area of outstanding natural beauty — fact be fact ! but the Chase be not just a place with serene walk and herd of fallow deer , although we have plenty of both . it be also a place of industry , sport and recreation . the Chase be still a work forest , manage by Forestry England , which produce around 19 , 000 tonne of sustainable timber every year . the Chase be arguably most famous as a national destination for mountain biker . as someone who could barely stay upright on fresh tarmac , the conversation I have have about mountain biking have probably be the steep learning curve I have be on since the general election . but I look forward to work with biker and Forestry England to build on the legacy of the 2022 Commonwealth game and make sure that unauthorised trail do not spoil the natural beauty of the forest . the Chase be a vibrant place with a huge range of activity , include the high rope and free fall of Go Ape at Birches valley . I place on record an open invitation to the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who , four month on from the general election campaign , must be suffer from zipline withdrawal . the iron - age hill fort of Castle Ring and the Chase ' s former status as a royal hunting forest attest to its rich 12 , 000 - year history . more recently , soldier be train on the Chase , include J . r . r . Tolkien , who be station there in 1916 , and who may have draw from it inspiration for the great forest in his legendary book . however , as my constituent would be keen to remind we all , there be much more to Cannock Chase than our forest . our tight - knit community be home to organisation that we be immensely proud of . charity such as cherisher , help a Squaddie , Catherine Care and Newlife be the good of Cannock Chase , burst with dedicated staff and volunteer who selflessly give their time . the construction , retail and education sector be the big employer locally — unsurprisingly , give that our three main town of Cannock , Hednesford and Rugeley enjoy a strategic position on a road and on a busy railway line . cannock have the headquarters of finning , the world ' s large dealer of Caterpillar construction equipment , as well as the west midland designer outlet village . nevertheless , my constituency be not just urban and industrial ; it be also semi - rural , with around a third of our land be agricultural . cluster around the village of Slitting Mill , Prospect Village , Cannock Wood , Wimblebury , Norton Canes and Heath Hayes be a tapestry of farm . many of these community feel left behind — last in the queue for infrastructure and service that other area take for grant . a lack of access to GPs and bus service be frequently raise by my constituent in rural area . we be also home to many business in the food supply chain , from processor to distributor . because of those constituency interest , as well as my passion for the sector , I be delighted to be get stick into my role on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . intersperse between house , factory and nature reserve be small remnant of the once dominant coalmining industry , some of which be conscientiously preserve as much love reminder of our proud mining heritage . while we do not want to see a return to coalmining , our town and village long for the secure job , social fabric and sense of common identity that characterise coalfield community for century . the sudden closure of Rugeley power station in 2016 signal a final move away from coal . the now clear site be soon to be renew , with a new community of hundred of home , a school and a new park , which will alleviate flooding from the River Trent . follow the very welcome and long overdue return of the mineworker ' pension scheme investment reserve to hundred of family in my constituency , I look forward to work with the Government and other to bring investment and renewal to community across Cannock Chase . decide what to say in a maiden speech lead we to reflect on what bring we to this extraordinary place , and what we hope to achieve for the people who send we here . for I personally , it be momentous to be stand here , because 20 year ago I be a painfully shy young boy in the corner of the playground with my head bury in a book , try as hard as I could to be invisible to the bully who torment I for a sexuality that , at that age , I do not yet understand . today , I stand here proudly as a Member of this House . if I achieve just one thing in my new job , I hope it be to show young people who be in the position that I be in that your bully do not define you , nor do they limit what you go on to achieve . I also hope to make my mark in other way . alongside my incredible husband , I be an adoptive parent to a beautiful four - year - old daughter , and foster carer to an equally beautiful nine - week - old baby boy , so adoption , permanence and our care leaver be all passion of mine . have be a councillor in my constituency for over five year , I be and will always be a fierce advocate for local council and the tangible difference that they make to our community . give that my constituency have the high proportion of people who commute by car in the whole of England , I know that a priority must be to fix the pothole . I be delighted that the Government be commit to both devolution and decent road . as a proud member of the Co - operative party , I be always keen to promote democratic ownership . community in rural and coalfield area know more than most the value of club together and give everyone a stake in the place and service that they rely on . it be safe to say that I have lot on my to - do list , which be hardly groundbreake for an MP , but I must finish by thank the people who have enable I to serve my home of Cannock Chase in this House . if it take a village to raise a child , it take a whole town to win an election campaign . I thank the Cannock Chase Labour party and all the volunteer who contribute to our record - break result . I thank my incredible family , many of whom be in the Gallery . they have help I to overcome so much in my life , and they have put up with a lot ; I be sure that many Members ' family can relate to that . the final thank go , of course , to the people of Cannock Chase for give I the opportunity to fight for our town and village . I will go on as I have start , repay that trust with action and hard work for as long as they keep I here .