Speaker ' s Statement before we begin proceeding , I regret to have to inform the House of the death of Lord Prescott . John serve the people of Hull for 40 year as a Member of this House , 10 of they as Deputy Prime Minister . he be a tower figure in the Labour and trade union movement , and a campaigner for worker . he be a fearless , loyal , active unionist , a dedicated parliamentarian and an advocate for his constituent . our thought and prayer be with Pauline and the family . there will be an opportunity for the House to pay full tribute next week . oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Transport for London what recent discussion she have have with the Mayor of London on financial support for Transport for London . Mr Speaker , as maritime Minister , I pay tribute to John Prescott both for his life at sea and for introduce the tonnage tax back in 2000 as Secretary of State for Transport , which secure the UK ' s position as a world leader in maritime service and train a new generation of seafarer . we continue to work collaboratively with City Hall , Transport for London and other mayor on long - term transport plan , provide last benefit for the public and the economy . I join the Minister in express my sympathy to the family of John Prescott . he will be dearly miss across the House and in the other place . the previous Conservative Government allocate £ 6 . 6 billion to subsidise the work of Transport for London , particularly to subsidise the fare box during the pandemic . I understand from the Budget that the Chancellor allocate £ 485 million to TfL , but the figure may include £ 220 million already announce to finance Elizabeth line train . if that be discount , that leave £ 265 million . can the Minister confirm that the position be that the Government have suspend the de facto right of the Mayor of London to freeze fare and that they be require an inflation - bust 4 . 6 % rise in fare in London ? this be a devolved matter . as the hon . Member say , at the Budget we announce £ 485 million in capital funding for Transport for London . shortly afterwards , the local transport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , and the deputy Mayor meet to discuss that . it be a matter for Transport for London . I be sure the hon . Member have a first - class relationship with the Mayor and I be sure he will press he on it . aviation : accessibility for disabled People what step she be take to improve the accessibility of aviation for disabled people . may I take this opportunity to pay my tribute to the former Deputy Prime Minister and my predecessor as Transport Secretary ? a merchant navy steward who become Deputy Prime Minister , a visionary Transport Secretary and an icon of the New Labour Government , he be an inspiration to working class boy and girl across our country for what our Labour movement can achieve . our thought be with Pauline , his family and everyone who love he in our whole Labour family . the Government be commit to ensure that aviation be accessible to all . I be proud that we have establish the aviation accessibility task and finish group , bring together industry and consumer advocate with first - hand experience to improve aviation accessibility . I associate myself with the tribute to Lord Prescott . as a sponsor of the Aviation ( accessibility ) Bill , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of the new expert group to break down the barrier to air travel that be still experience by far too many disabled people . do she agree that ensure all disabled people have the ability to travel on flight safely and with dignity must now be a priority for the whole aviation industry ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend and pay tribute to he and my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) for their ten - minute rule Bill on this important issue . the human impact for too many people with accessibility issue when fly be severe and that be why it be this Government ' s priority to set up the accessibility task and finish group . we be require the industry to match our ambition . for regional and island airport , accessibility equipment can carry significant cost in proportion to the number of passenger use the facility . however , it remain vital that disabled passenger ' access be support . what action be the Secretary of State take to support small airport in this regard ? airport be represent in the accessibility task and finish group through their trade association , AirportsUK , and both large and small airport be represent individually as well . we will work closely with the industry to look at what voluntary measure can be adopt as we also consider enforcement power for the Civil Aviation Authority . Midland Main Line Electrification what recent estimate she have make of when electrification of the midland main line will be complete . the electrification of the remainder of the route to Nottingham and Sheffield via Derby — the midland main line electrification programme — be in development , and currently it be plan to be complete by the early 2030 , subject to business case approval and wide affordability consideration . it be marvellous that we now have the electric line energise up through Market Harborough to Wigston , and we be look forward to our electric train arrive next year . even well , we have Spion Kop bridge stay open . will the Rail Minister meet I to ensure that we avoid any risk that future electrification work lead to a further withdrawal of late and early service to market Harborough ? the last train back from London be already far too early , so we need to avoid the work have any further damaging impact . we be all concerned about the impact of work on service . I know that the Rail Minister be aware of that and would welcome the opportunity to visit , alongside Network Rail , to see the work be do to mitigate the impact on the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent as that work continue . bus Franchising whether she be take step to support the participation of small and medium - sized local bus operator in bus franchising scheme . this government be empower every community to take back control of their local bus service . legislation on bus franchising require local authority to consider small and medium - sized enterprise as part of the franchising process . we be work with those interested in pursue franchising to develop different model , include small - scale model , which require less financial commitment and provide more opportunity for small and medium - sized bus operator to participate . I be pleased to hear that this be part of the consultation on update the bus franchising guidance . we have some strong local sme in Falmouth that provide a knowledgeable , local and flexible bus service , along with community bus service too . will the Minister please confirm that she will be supportive of that kind of model when go through the guidance ? my hon . friend be a great champion for business in her constituency . we recognise the important role that small local bus operator can provide in deliver high - quality bus service ; they know their customer and their community . in addition to the requirement to consider sme as part of the franchising process , this Government ' s reform to the bus system be design to give more option to local community to deliver local bus service . our transformative bus Bill will seek to give local area the choice of pursue bus franchising , high - quality partnership with the private sector or local authority - own bus company and , once in law , will provide more opportunity for all operator , include sme . I thank the Minister for that answer , which be incredibly helpful . to support the participation of small and medium - sized local bus company in bus franchising scheme , they also want to be energy - efficient . that enable they to apply for the franchise and do well . how can the Minister help those small and medium - sized bus company to be energy efficient — with hydrogen bus , for example — and thereby gain the franchise and contract ? transport matter be devolve in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , of course , but put bus at the heart of our policy and want to increase ridership provide brilliant opportunity for local manufacturer of bus to take part and support local manufacturer and operator . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on behalf of the Opposition Front Bench , I too offer my sincere sympathy to the family of the late Lord Prescott on his passing . on Monday , in her statement on bus funding , the Secretary of State say that a formula be be use to allocate funding . she say that the formula will allocate funding " base on local need , population , the distance that bus travel , and level of deprivation … this formula and the funding allocate be a fair arrangement , ensure that every area of the country get the service level it need " . — [ Official Report , 18 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 43 - 45 . ] the formula , include the weighting give to the various factor by the right hon . Lady , have not be publish . when will it be ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question . we be proud of the work that we have do to ensure that every part of the country benefit from additional funding for their bus , and we will publish that later today . [ Official Report , 26 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) the Secretary of State also say in her statement : " council such as Leicester , the Isle of Wight , Torbay and Cambridgeshire will see unprecedented level of funding for service . " — [ Official Report , 18 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 42 . ] what level of subsidy do she believe that bus service in those area will require ? it be incredibly important that decision about local service be take by those who be operate they . that be why not only have we provide substantial level of funding — £ 1 billion announce in the Budget and the allocation set out on Monday — but we be provide local transport authority with the power they need to provide the service that local community want and deserve . local Bus Services : travel to School if she will make an assessment of the effectiveness of local bus service in enable child ' s travel to school . the Government know how important local bus service be in provide access to education . we have set out an ambitious programme of reform to empower local leader to improve service for passenger , include through the introduction of the bus Bill , to ensure that they well reflect the need of local community . I , too , associate myself with the remark about Lord Prescott . in my constituency of Tunbridge Wells , a group of parent have tell I about the difficulty that their child have in get to Skinners ' Kent academy . the child can get either the no . 2 or the no . 297 . the first one get they to school 90 minute early , so they have to wait by the side of a busy road in the cold and the dark , and the latter get they there 15 minute late . over a school year , that be 50 hour of education . Kent be give £ 23 million for bus service . beyond give the money , what will the Department for Transport be do to ensure that the money will increase the frequency of service so that child can get to school on time ? I think an Adjournment debate may be need . well , Mr Speaker , I do not know the particular detail of the no . 2 or the no . 297 — [ interruption . ] forgive I . as the hon . Member have point out , Kent county council have be give £ 23 . 1 million as part of our £ 1 billion package for bus . we be right a lot of wrong over the underfunding of rural service , in particular , over the year , and we expect to see a much well bus service across our whole country in the future . may I , too , associate myself with the tribute pay to John Prescott ? over the past few week , a number of parent have contact I to ask whether school transport can be bring into the scope of the bus fare cap . will the Minister agree to look at that ? service from participate operator that serve school be open to member of the public and run all year round and will be eligible for inclusion in the scheme . the current fare cap do not allow for the inclusion of closed school service at the moment — that be for logistic reason , I understand . in the statement on bus service on Monday , I ask the Secretary of State about extend concessionary travel to child and young people . her response be to suggest that MPs should talk to our individual local authority about this , but that be not the approach that we take to concessionary travel for pensioner . I have just be contact by somebody age over 16 who can not afford to go to college because it would cost £ 1 , 500 a year , and her family just can not afford that . be it not the case that concessionary bus travel for child and young people should be extend on a national basis , rather than have this postcode lottery ? as a former schoolteacher , I know how important get child to education be , and those bus service provide vital line . that be why we have put £ 1 billion into our bus service network . I suggest that local service , such as mine in the Bee Network in Greater Manchester , have use their resource to improve access to education for young people . rural community in town and village such as Holwell in my constituency , which I visit last week , often depend on bus for their day - to - day life and for get their child to school , but all too often the reliability of these service make it increasingly hard for family to depend on they . what new power and funding will this Government be give transport authority , such as Hertfordshire and Central Bedfordshire , to ensure that they can get bus for my community back on track ? like our rail user , bus user depend on punctuality . our bus service have not be up to scratch , with vast underfunding over the past few year . we be hope that the £ 955 million investment in our bus will give local community the power they need to hold operator to account on the punctuality of those bus , so that our young people can get to their college and school on time . Transport Infrastructure what step she be take to improve transport infrastructure . what step she be take to improve transport infrastructure . what step she be take to improve transport infrastructure . what step she be take to improve transport infrastructure . we have hear over the last 14 year that the infrastructure sector and wide supply chain need stability and certainty — no more chop and change — and last month ' s Budget commit this Government to that approach , ensure that people have access to transport service and infrastructure that meet their need . the Department ' s capital settlement secure the delivery and development of infrastructure project , include upgrade to rail in the north , further electrification of service between Church Fenton and York by 2026 , and significant major road upgrade across the north of England . I associate myself with the comment about Lord Prescott . public access to electric vehicle charge infrastructure be vital to encourage motorist to switch away from petrol and diesel vehicle , but the roll - out process be reliant on dedicated and experience local authority resource , funding for which be due to run out next year . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss measure to avoid local authority become bottleneck in the roll - out of publicly accessible ev charging infrastructure ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . our manifesto be clear that we be committed to accelerate the electric vehicle charge point roll - out , particularly to address the inequity across the country . I fully recognise the importance of local authority in achieve that , and in the Budget we announce over £ 200 million of investment in charge for 2025 - 26 , include that important support for local authority . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister for the future of road would be happy to meet he . the Dartford crossing link Essex and Kent be a key piece of transport infrastructure in my constituency . however , since move to a new charge system last year , there have be serious failing in the administration of the Dart charge . problem include credit not be carry over from the old system . car have incorrectly be charge , account have be close in error and , in one particularly egregious example , a constituent of mine be tell by an enforcement agent stand on her doorstep that she owe £ 8 , 000 . I thank the Secretary of State for her attention on this matter . will she update the House on the step that her Department be take to resolve the matter ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important issue . I have receive several representation about its impact on driver who use the Dartford crossing . it be essential that when error occur they be clear up quickly , and with compassion for those affect . I expect National Highways to work with its service provider at the Dartford crossing to ensure that that happen , and my hon . friend the Minister for the future of road have be hold National Highways to account . my official be continue to work with National Highways to drive down incorrect penalty charge notice and provide much well support to customer . the labour mayor Andy Burnham and Richard Parker be develop proposal for a new rail link between Birmingham and Manchester . what engagement have the Department have with the mayor and investor in relation to this project , and do my right hon . friend agree that , as a key transport hub , Crewe must be at the heart of any future rail infrastructure connect the north and the midland ? my hon . friend have consistently stand up for Crewe in the wake of the cancellation of HS2 . Crewe be particularly badly hit by that announcement . I be pleased to meet with Mayors Burnham and Parker this week to discuss their proposal to address the capacity and connectivity issue north of Birmingham , and I will continue to engage with all relevant stakeholder on this topic . I welcome the Government ' s recommitment to improve public transport and rail infrastructure across Britain . in Monmouthshire , we be eagerly await the innovative Magor walkway station , which will reduce M4 congestion , improve public transport and , most importantly , help we in our mission to bring economic growth and boost the economy locally . will the Secretary of State commit to work with I and Welsh Ministers to deliver the five Burns station , include the Magor walkway , and will she meet I to discuss progress ? I be familiar with Lord Burns ' s recommendation for new station in south Wales to relieve congestion on the M4 motorway , and I be in discussion with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Wales and Welsh Ministers on these proposal . I would be more than happy to discuss progress with my hon . friend . I thank the Secretary of State for agree to meet I and the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) about the A66 . while there be a strong economic case for dualle , the road safety consideration concern I most . as she will know , 12 people tragically lose their life on the road last week . I recently meet constituent in Ravensworth who live near one of the single carriageway section of the road . they live daily with those fear . will she reassure they that she and her team will keep road safety consideration uppermost in their mind as they think about the future of the A66 ? the former Prime Minister manage to ask two question , because he ask his first behind the Chair early . I be more than happy to meet he to discuss the A66 , which we be consider and which provide that crucial northern trans - Pennine connectivity . I reassure he that we take road safety seriously , particularly on that section of road . we be in the process of develop the first road safety strategy in more than a decade . bath ' s council be consult on create 6 . 2 km of cycle road . the recent £ 100 million increase to the active travel fund be welcome , but council need long - term funding . will the Secretary of State commit to long - term funding of the active travel plan ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right , and we be pleased to overturn the previous Government ' s cut to Active Travel England , ensure that it can help authority such as Bath scale up their capability and capacity and deliver those important active travel route . as we look towards the second phase of the spending review , the ambition be absolutely to move to multi - year settlement , deliver that important consistency and sustainability for local authority . I thank the Minister with responsibility for road for meet my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and I last week to discuss the future of the A303 and the north - south route through Wiltshire ; village road be clog with heavy good vehicle traffic . see as the Government have scrap the Stonehenge tunnel , save billion of pound , I implore the Minister , as she consider the road investment strategy for next year , to think about mitigation of the unsustainable traffic problem that we have in Wiltshire . we have be wait year for improvement . please could that be consider as part of the next RIS ? as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , the Minister have already ask National Highways to meet the hon . Gentleman and his colleague to discuss those important issue . we will place statutory duty and stretch freight target on great British Railways to encourage freight off the road and on to the railway , but we be absolutely consider the specific congestion issue in the south - west as we look towards the road investment strategy . an increase amount of Transport for London ' s funding come from punitive taxis on motorist , include those in my constituency of Bromley and Biggin Hill . there be report that the Mayor of London be actively plan to charge driver up to 60p a mile to drive . will the Secretary of State take the opportunity to discourage the mayor from introduce pay - per - mile road user charge across Greater London ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be fully aware that the mayor have repeatedly make it clear that he have no plan to act on road user charge . I call the shadow Minister . we will all miss John Prescott . he be a titan of our politic , and a man not afraid to come out swinge for what he believe in . the figure show that capital spending on transport be not rise under Labour ; it will fall by 3 . 1 % in real term next year . we have huge tax rise and a more than £ 70 billion increase in tax . labour ' s black hole myth have be debunk by the Office for Budget Responsibility , the Financial Times and the Institute for Fiscal Studies — all real economist — so why the cut in capital spending ? the Secretary of State be out of her depth when she negotiate a £ 9 , 000 pay rise for ASLEF train driver with nothing in return . be she out of her depth when she negotiate with her own Chancellor ? this Budget deliver £ 1 billion funding for local bus service and transformational capital investment in infrastructure project , such as the trans - Pennine route upgrade , the A57 and , of course , East West Rail . this Government be commit to investing , invest , invest in transport , transport , transport . Railway ticket what step she be take to simplify railway ticketing . this Government be commit to review the over - complicate fare system to simplify it . we only have to look on social medium any day of the week to see example of people be confused and wrongly prosecute because of the confusing nature of the rail system . my official be explore how ticket innovation such as digital pay - as – you - go and digital season ticket can be roll out more widely as quickly as possible . I associate myself with the tribute pay to John Prescott . Radio Merseyside have feature many story about passenger who be fine because they buy train ticket in good faith , only to find out that they be the wrong one . some of my Knowsley constituent find themselves be fine or deny travel by Merseytravel for buy ticket legitimately online . what step be the Secretary of State take to work with our mayor , Steve Rotherham , and with Merseyrail and other operator , to ensure that passenger be not unfairly penalise , and to create a clear and fair ticketing system that be easy for everyone to use ? we be work with the mayor as we look to establish great British Railways . I have ask the Office of Rail and Road to conduct an independent review of rail operator ' revenue protection practice . that launch today and will involve devolved operator , where appropriate . address fare evasion be a priority , but we must always treat passenger fairly and appropriately . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I join other in express my party ' s sympathy for the family , friend , colleague and former constituent of John Prescott ? he be a tower figure . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment on simplify ticketing . that will doubtless help to get people back on to the railway . affordability be also critical to increase the use of public transport . alongside her 50 % hike in bus fare , the Chancellor bury on page 97 of the Budget an above - inflation rail fare increase of 4 . 6 % . that kick in from March 2025 , just when we expect public ownership of the railroad to begin . Ahem . now that the railway be come under her guardianship , will the Secretary of State assure the House that that will be the last above - inflation rail fare increase in this Parliament ? order . question should be a bit short . I do not know who be do your briefing — well , I suspect I do — but short question would be helpful . of course , a priority for this Government be to keep public transport affordable , but our absolute priority be to fix the mess in the railway that we inherit after 14 year of under - investment , decline and put passenger last in a broken system . condition of Local Roads what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of local road . the Government be determined to improve the condition of local road . we have a manifesto commitment to support council in fix up to 1 million more pothole per year . we be go above and beyond that manifesto commitment : last month ' s Budget confirm an increase of £ 500 million for next financial year to fix Britain ' s crumble road . I pay tribute to Lord Prescott . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of this vital funding . will she comment on the excellent work carry out by read borough council , which have start resurface large section of road ? that not only create a smoother surface for driver , but have be prove to save money in the long run . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the excellent practice be undertake by read borough council . that be the kind of innovation that we need to see across the country — not just fix and repair pothole , but ensure that we prevent they and improve the quality and lifespan of our local road . People live near the concrete section of the M25 in my constituency be besiege by motorway noise . in fact , some school and home can not open window , such be the noise nuisance . do the Secretary of State agree that that be an absolute disgrace , and will she support my campaign to scrap the concrete section of the M25 motorway ? I believe the hon . Gentleman meet the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , last week on exactly that issue . she will follow up on it , as will National Highways . I associate myself with the comment about Lord Prescott . I be grateful for the Secretary of State ' s answer on local road . the road in Leeds South West and Morley be in a dire state . Asquith Avenue have be compare to the surface of the moon . commuter in Farnley , Wortley , Morley and Tingley have to dodge pothole every day , and even the more rural area of my constituency , such as Ardsley and Robin Hood , be suffer the same fate . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that those road will be improve , and when can they expect those improvement ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . pothole and poor road condition be a menace that make our road less safe and have saddle driver with costly repair . the £ 500 million uplift will be available in ' 25 - 26 , and we will announce the allocation shortly , include those for West Yorkshire . I also pay tribute to Lord Prescott . nearly 20 % of my constituent work in the vital freight and logistic sector , yet the industry continue to pick up the bill for the failure of Warwickshire county council to fix my constituent ' pothole - riddle road . now that the Government have provide a £ 500 million increase to fix pothole , do the Secretary of State agree that the council must take action to tackle the scourge of pothole , which be cause untold damage to my constituent ' car , truck and lorry ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . local authority be responsible for the state of their local road , but with this significant uplift for ' 25 - 26 , we expect they to ensure that that be a priority , and to tackle the state of the local road , which be affect my hon . friend ' s constituent so badly . John Prescott be a tower figure in the politic of the Humber region , and I associate myself with the word of sympathy to his family . road in my constituency be under great pressure because traffic from the a180 be continually be transfer on to they while it be be patch up . early this month , the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) and I meet National Highways , and it be perfectly obvious that the a180 will be in its present state for many year to come . will the Secretary of State meet I and the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes to discuss this and other transport issue in the area ? you be run out of road . I be sure that the Minister with responsibility for road , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , would be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) . the safety and condition of our road be hugely dependent on those who drive on they , but too many vehicle illegally use our road without tax , without register their detail with the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , and without their mot . I thank Jamie from seven Sisters garage for sort my mot out last week . will the Secretary of State meet industry expert , such as Eastbourne ' s very own Alan Wood of the National Persistent Evader Database , to discuss their solution to tackle this problem , and make our road safe ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that important point . I have meet the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency to talk about its important enforcement work in this area . measure of that kind will absolutely be consider in the development of our road safety strategy , and we will work closely with stakeholder , exactly as the Minister with responsibility for road mention . I associate myself with the tribute pay to Lord Prescott . talk of pothole repair and road resurfacing , the director of the RAC , Steve Gooding , say : " the long - term solution be a long - term funding settlement for council so they can finally get on top of what have be a perennial problem . " but council — [ Laughter . ] hon . member might laugh , but our council , which have to do the work of repair our road , do not know how much money they will get from the much - trumpet £ 500 million . when will our council actually get their allocation ? as I have say , the £ 500 million be available for ' 25 - 26 , and those allocation will be announce shortly . the brass neck on Opposition Members never cease to amaze . I be just try to get answer for our council . of course , it be the previous Government who commit £ 8 . 3 billion to road repair , use money from the rightly cancel section of High Speed 2 . back in May , when it be in opposition , Labour try to claim a backlog of more than £ 16 billion in road repair , but now it just trumpet funding of £ 500 million . that be not enough , be it ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for recognise the appalling state of our local road , and the appalling backlog that we inherit . the significant uplift allocate for next year will start to turn the page on 14 year of decline , but of course that can not be achieve overnight . Rural Bus Services what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of bus service in rural area . fourteen year of decline in local bus service under the previous Administration have hit community across the country hard , especially in rural area . this government know that bus be a lifeline , and through our upcoming bus Bill , we will give all local leader the power that they need to design network that meet the need of their community , include measure to ensure that vital service for passenger remain run . many of my Thornbury and Yate constituent have be impact by the loss of the 84 / 85 bus . I be tell that funding be make more difficult because that bus be a cross - border service between Gloucestershire and the west of England . do the Minister agree that the rule need clarify , so that they do not get in the way of ensure that we keep important bus service run ? I absolutely recognise the concern that arise when vital bus service be lose , which the hon . Lady mention . that be why , in the forthcoming bus Bill , we will explore a local network management measure that will give local transport authority the power to ensure that cut to local network be make only when absolutely necessary , thus protect people like her constituent , who rely on that vital bus service . I call Chris Bloore . thank you , Mr Speaker , for recognise my half - bob . my thought be with Lord Prescott ' s family ; he be one of the first politician I meet as a young student , and he certainly make an impression . may I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister on the £ 9 . 3 million investment in bus in Worcestershire ? I represent a rural constituency where people have not be able to get to work , access health service or stay connected with friend and family . this investment may well make a real difference to their life . my hon . friend be absolutely right to speak up for his constituent in Worcestershire , and about the difference that will be make by the funding that this Government be provide . it will ensure that his constituent have the connection that be cut off for too long under the previous Government . Railway Stations : accessibility what step she be take to improve the accessibility of railway station for disabled people . ensure that rail service and facility be accessible to all be a core principle of our plan to fix Britain ' s broken rail system . the Department be carefully consider the good approach to station accessibility , and recognise the huge social and economic benefit it bring to community . mp and stakeholder will be update in due course . after Northwich station collapse in 2021 , an access for all application be submit , with the support of local partner , to add step - free access to the Chester - bind platform . unfortunately , that opportunity be miss by the last government , and the station have be rebuild without those accessibility improvement . I welcome the inclusion of improve accessibility in great British Railways ' mandate , but what step can be take to ensure that station such as Northwich see improvement while we wait for GBR to get up and run ? first , I thank my hon . friend for pick up the baton on Northwich station — we all remember the terrible situation when the canopy collapse . this Government be commit to improve the accessibility of the railway , and recognise its huge social and economic benefit . the Access for all programme will deliver 32 step - free station this financial year , the most since that programme start . anyone unable to use a station in the meantime can book alternative transport with the operator at no additional cost . Chiltern Railways : overcrowd if she will take step to help reduce overcrowding on Chiltern Railways service . the Secretary of State for Transport , Lord Hendy and official continue to work closely with Chiltern Railways to support delivery of an improved passenger experience . to reduce crowding , Chiltern periodically adjust its timetable , respond to passenger demand . it be explore option for procure additional train , in order to relieve crowding while ensure value for money for the taxpayer . Haddenham and Thame Parkway train station be a key transport hub for my resident who commute regularly to London . however , constituent face overcrowded train ; some even report faint on hot , stuffy train . I understand that Chiltern Railways have an active business case with the Department for Transport . will the Minister approve , as a matter of priority , the replacement train and carriage that it be request ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question on behalf of those people who travel on Chiltern Railways . the Rail Minister have assure I that the cascade roll stock be under active consideration in the Department , and we will complete the process as soon as possible . Tyne Bridge Restoration if she will take step to help ensure that the Tyne Bridge be restore in time for its centenary in 2028 . I thank my hon . friend for that question — she be a great champion for her city . it be the responsibility of Newcastle city council to manage the bridge restoration project , but we encourage the council to do all it can to ensure that the restoration of this iconic bridge be complete in time for its centenary celebration . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on jazz , I want to add to the many tribute pay to the great Lord Prescott by say that he be a champion of jazz and a jazz lover as well . I do hope that the Minister will be able to join we on the restore Tyne bridge for its centenary celebration in 2028 . however , she may be aware that an uplift to the funding announce under the previous Government for the restoration have not yet materialise , and inflation and issue uncover during the project have lead to a rise in cost . could she confirm to I that the difficult decision this Government have make mean that the uplift in funding will be available for the fully restore Tyne bridge ? I thank my hon . friend for that fantastic invitation on 2028 . this government ' s manifesto be clear that we want to forge ahead with infrastructure improvement as part of our mission to kick - start economic growth . as with all scheme in the major road network programme , the Department ' s contribution be fix once the scheme be approve , and Newcastle city council be award over £ 35 million towards the total cost of the scheme . however , I absolutely commend she for champion this important project . as she say , it be one of the world ' s most iconic bridge , and we be happy to keep this in mind in the context of the spending review . Transport Decarbonisation what step she be take to decarbonise the transport sector . the Government be commit to deliver green transport . the Department be overhaul public transport service to make the sustainable choice the most convenient choice . it be turbocharge the roll - out of electric vehicle and charge infrastructure , and it be make the UK a world leader in the production and use of sustainable aviation fuel . transport be decarbonise more slowly than other sector because , while car emission have fall by 20 % since 1990 , haulage emission have barely move . early this month , my constituency host the East Midlands Hydrogen summit , where we see how heavy good vehicle can be power through green , clean hydrogen . what step be the Department taking , and what step will it take , to support green hydrogen in the use of heavy good vehicle ? it be great that my hon . friend be such a champion of hydrogen . the Department ' s £ 200 million zero emission hgv and infrastructure demonstration programme be fund hundred of hydrogen fuel cell and battery electric HGVs and their refuelling and recharge infrastructure . to support the transition to zero emission hgv , datum will be publish and widely share with the haulage and logistic industry . yesterday , Ford announce that 4 , 000 job be go across Europe , include 800 here , many of which be in my constituency of Basildon and Billericay . there be real concern about the lack of take - up of electric vehicle because the Government be not provide clear enough long - term support , and about the extra taxis impose on both ICE — internal combustion engine — vehicle and electric vehicle through vehicle excise duty at the Budget . would the Minister meet I and other affect mp to see what can be do to address these important issue affect worker in our constituency ? the right hon . member be right to raise this , and the Secretary of State do meet Ford yesterday . we understand that this be a concern time for worker at Ford , especially as it be a significant player in the UK ' s automotive industry . we commit £ 200 million in the Budget for this area of work , and we hope to alleviate the situation as soon as humanly possible . local Transport Funding what financial support she be provide to local transport authority and mayor . in the Budget , the Government confirm over £ 1 billion of funding to support bus service , an additional £ 200 million for eligible mayor , over £ 650 million for local transport outside the city region , a £ 500 million increase in local highway maintenance and £ 485 million for Transport for London , which include funding for roll stock on the Piccadilly and Elizabeth line . may I , too , associate myself with the tribute pay to the late Lord Prescott ? I commend the Government ' s initiative to increase connectivity across London . for example , the new zero emission bus be make public transport so much more convenient and greener . nearly half of my constituent in Ilford South travel by public transport . what support be the Secretary of State provide to the Mayor of London , and TfL in particular , to ensure that my constituent can continue to commute to work ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his championing of his constituent ' ability to commute affordably and reliably . the Government provide Transport for London with £ 485 million of capital funding for 2025 - 26 , which include funding for the procurement of new train and roll stock . Rail Connectivity what step she be take to improve rail connectivity . for too long , poor performance and connectivity particularly across the north of England have be tolerate . that be why one of my top five transport priority be improve performance on the railway and drive forward reform . the Budget confirm significant investment in rail enhancement , such as the TransPennine route upgrade , and we be commit to improve connectivity in addition to our work improve our overall network . I too send my condolence to John Prescott ' s family . the town of Fleetwood and Thornton in my constituency have suffer poor transport connection for many year . will the Secretary of State update the House on the status of the fund to improve rail link across the country , and will the relevant Minister meet I to discuss way to improve transport connection into and out of Thornton and Fleetwood ? my hon . friend be a champion for her constituency . we confirm significant investment in rail enhancement across the country in the Budget , but as we look to the second phase of the spending review we will be set out the long - term infrastructure strategy . on Fleetwood in particular , I be sure the local transport Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this particular transport need in her constituency . at the last Transport question on 10 October , I ask the Transport Secretary to confirm the status of the ringfence funding for Aldridge train station . she promise to reply in writing . I follow this up with a letter . to date , I have receive no response . the people of Aldridge deserve to know what have happen to the £ 30 million award to we for our new train station : can the Secretary of State tell we where it be , please ? I sincerely apologise to the right hon . Lady and will make sure she receive that letter today . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . move fast and fix thing be a promise not a soundbite . yesterday the landmark Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill complete its passage through this place and now await Royal Assent . this be a significant milestone , bring the railway back into public hand , restore trust after year of lack of trust and renew a promise to passenger that the railway can work well for they . at the same time , we be tackle rail performance now . London North Eastern Railway and TransPennine Express cancellation be down . I have task the Office of Rail and Road with review ticket enforcement . on road , this Government ' s £ 500 million boost for local highway next year will support local leader to fix up to 1 million more pothole per year , deliver on our manifesto pledge . on top of this , we be deliver transformative investment in infrastructure that connect our great city and town . this government be deliver transport enhancement that drive growth , improve life and connect every corner of the country . the storm in 2014 break the dawlish sea wall , collapse cliff and block the south - west main line for month . will the Secretary of State assure we that the crucial rail resilience programme final phase will be fund so that Network Rail keep the project alive , rather than halt it in its track ? as we look to settle Network Rail ' s control period 7 , of course that will be a major consideration in the next funding settlement . early this year the Prime Minister commit to work with metro mayor on improve rail link between Manchester and Liverpool . skelmersdale in my constituency be a town of 40 , 000 people slap - bang between those two great city and do not have a train station . what measure in the Budget will help support transport link for my constituent , and will the Transport Secretary meet I to discuss rail link and a station train for Skem ? the Budget commit significant funding both for mayoral area and those not cover by mayoral combine authority through the local transport fund . crucially , new power will be deliver to those area to ensure they can take back control of their local public transport service . of course I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Greater London be the most heavily populated and most economically active area in the whole country . it also have the high level of bus use . in the last financial year , the level of bus subsidy in London amount to £ 646 million . in the Secretary of State ' s statement on Monday , of the £ 1 billion of funding that she indicate , £ 700 million will be spend on produce bus planning document , and only £ 243 million be go to bus service . that will not touch the side , will it ? be the truth not that , far from it be generational reform , it be publicly fund window dressing ? the way that the previous Government approach bus service improvement plan be to force local authority to waste money on develop those plan . this money be go directly to authority to make sure they be deliver public service . public transport be a public service and it should always be fund . John Prescott be a good friend , and condolence go to his wife Pauline and his family and friend . northumberland ' s big town , Blyth , be in desperate need of a relief road . it be much promise by the previous Government , and the plan be submit before the general election in 2024 . can the Minister update the House on that plan ' s progress ? like my hon . friend , we be all think of Lord Prescott and his family today . my official have have meeting with Northumberland county council , which be work to strengthen the case and provide far analytical work before the scheme can be fully appraise . I would be happy to update my hon . friend on those discussion when I can do so . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the passing of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill yesterday . Northern Rail have be publicly own for the past four year , run train on track that have be publicly own for more than two decade . sadly , Northern Rail still have some of the bad cancellation and punctuality rate in the country . can the Secretary of State tell we what she have learn from her Department ' s experience with Northern Rail ? what else be she plan beyond nationalisation to improve the rail network ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for his party ' s support in pass the public ownership Bill yesterday in the other place . he be right , and I have make clear to Northern Rail that its performance be not acceptable . we be address that through new agreement on rest - day work to drive down cancellation , and crucially through integrate operation with Network Rail to deliver saving and well performance . I would like to share the experience of Northern Rail service of one of my constituent who commute to work from Lostock to Manchester . on 30 October , the 1639 service leave Manchester be cancel , the 1708 be cancel , the 1808 be cancel and the 1839 be cancel . the one run train , the 1739 , be so overcrowded that no one at station far down the line could board it . do the Minister agree that my hard - work constituent in Bolton West deserve well ? yes , I be on the same line . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I have repeatedly make clear that it be not good enough . we inherit a railway where workforce term and condition be completely outdated and not fit for a modern railway . we be address that , and as a result Northern ' s cancellation be start to come down , but we appreciate that there be still a long way to go . the last Government and Surrey county council be work on progress junction improvement with the A31 at Hickley ' s Corner in Farnham . can the Minister confirm that that improvement will go ahead ? in addition , the pressure on the A325 through Wrecclesham be become intolerable . will she work with local authority to provide a Wrecclesham bypass , which be so seek by my constituent ? I would be happy to get my official to write to the hon . gentleman to provide an update on discussion around those important scheme . the key to improved rail performance in my constituency be the reinstatement of rail infrastructure , notably the Burscough curve , alongside improve service to Manchester , where my constituent be also continually let down by Northern Rail . do the Secretary of State agree that one of the good way to achieve the high growth that the country need be to improve those transport connection ? will she meet I to discuss that far ? our manifesto be clear that we be committed to improve rail connectivity in the north of England . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to address the specific issue on that line . the Ely and Haughley upgrade be vital for get freight from Felixstowe off road and on to rail , reduce congestion on the A14 and provide much - need relief to village such as Kentford in my constituency . can the Secretary of State commit to a timescale for their commencement ? I be well aware of the strong case for the Ely junction improvement and the impact that will have on freight . that be absolutely be consider as we look towards the 10 - year infrastructure strategy and we consider GBR ' s stretch target for get freight off the road and on to the railway . next year will mark the 180th anniversary of Wymondham train station , but sadly it be not accessible to all . a great birthday present for my station would be to make it so . will the Minister meet I and the Wymondham access group to ensure that we can deliver that for the future ? I think a yes will do . sure thing . my condolence to John Prescott ' s family . I be long enough in the tooth to remember when he be the Transport Secretary . a feasibility study on the Borders rail link be a fundamental part of the Borderlands growth deal . for some reason , the Scottish Government do not seem to prioritise transport link with England , so it be vital that the Department push that forward . I be engage with the Transport Minister in Scotland on exactly that issue . I be regularly contact by constituent of mine who be concerned about delay and cancellation on the Tyne Valley line , which be so fundamental to my constituency . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss delay and improvement to that line ? my hon . friend be right that northern rail service on that line be very poor . that be exactly what we be address through continue negotiation on rest - day working agreement . my noble Friend the Rail Minister will be happy to meet he . we have just see the third fatality in six month at the Plusha junction in my constituency . how many more life will be lose before her Department , National Highways and Cornwall Council finally plan to implement a flyover at this accident blackspot ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise that . we be develop the first road safety strategy in over 10 year , and improvement in infrastructure like that be exactly what will be consider under that plan . Branston bridge in my constituency , a main route in and out of Burton and Branston , be fall down . it be confirm yesterday that it will be close to vehicle for safety reason , which be cause significant distress to resident , local business and commuter . will the Minister work far with I and other so that we can solve this problem ? of course , I recognise that Branston bridge be a vital part of Staffordshire county council ' s road network , link community and business in my hon . friend ' s constituency . in addition to the £ 500 million of maintenance funding that the Chancellor announce in the Budget , there be also £ 650 million of transport funding outside city region next year . full detail on how that funding will be allocate will be confirm in due course . several key road in my constituency be either closed or partially close for roadwork , which be be do by utility company who be increasingly get around road permit by declare an emergency . will the Minister look into that to ensure that utility company use emergency power only when absolutely necessary ? the hon . member raise a really important point about the disruption of roadwork . we be absolutely committed to ensure that we mitigate those problem and deal with they exactly as he say . I associate myself with the comment about Lord Prescott , a true work - class hero . constituent regularly tell I that the no . 57 bus that connect stocksbridge to Sheffield be often delay and do not always stop , even when bus stop be busy . will the Secretary of State confirm that the funding she announce this week will provide reliable and affordable bus route connect our rural and urban community in Penistone and Stocksbridge ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and colleague from Sheffield . I be well aware of that bus route and can confirm that the £ 18 million settlement for South Yorkshire will deliver well , more reliable and more frequent service for the good people of Sheffield . G20 and COP29 Summits thank you , Mr Speaker , for your early word about John Prescott . we wake today to the deeply sad news that we have lose a true giant of the Labour movement and of this House ; a man who fight for working - class ambition because he live it . as one of the key architect of a Labour Government , John achieve that rare thing : he change people ' s life and he set the path for we all to follow . I will always be grateful to he for that . he do it all in his own way , with humour , pride , passion and total conviction . he truly be a one - off . there will be a moment for full tribute , but today I send my deep condolence and , I be sure , those of the whole House to John ' s wife Pauline and his family , to the city of Hull , and to all those who know and love he . his legacy live on in all of we . I wish to update the House on my engagement at COP and the G20 . we live in a dangerous and volatile world . we all wish that that be not the case , but it be , and it mean that global problem be reach into the life of our constituent more and more . climate change cause extreme weather , such as the terrible flood that we see in September , and drive down economic growth ; conflict drive up the price of fuel , food and energy and threaten our stability and security ; and both be driver of migration . to serve the british people we must tackle these problem head - on , because they do not stop at our border — and that be the fundamental point . at every meeting I have at COP and the G20 , and in every agreement I enter into , my focus be on tackle these problem to deliver growth and security for the british people . at COP , I make the case that we must act on climate change and nature loss as some of the great long - term threat we face , and in do so we must seize the opportunity of the low - carbon economy for investment , for UK business and for british worker . at COP , I be proud to announce the UK ' s new nationally determine contribution , with a 2035 target to reduce all greenhouse gas emission by at least 81 % on 1990 level . I call on other country to match that ambition to limit global temperature rise to 1 . 5 ° , and I make the investment case for the transformation that we be lead here in the United Kingdom . by launch GB Energy , create the national wealth fund to build new energy infrastructure and set a path to clean power by 2030 , we will not just boost our energy security and protect bill payer , but put Britain in pole position to claim the clean energy job of the future . that be why at COP , I be able to announce a £ 1 billion wind turbine investment that will support 1 , 300 local job around Hull — something of which John would have be very proud — and produce enough clean energy to power 1 million home . that be in addition to the recent investment in carbon capture in Teesside and Merseyside , which will create 4 , 000 job , and the investment announce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor for 11 new green hydrogen project across Britain . tackle climate change be , of course , a global effort , so at the G20 , together with Brazil and 10 other country , I launch our global clean power alliance to speed up the international roll - out of clean power , accelerate investment , and cut emission around the world . we come together at the G20 to meet other challenge as well . I be pleased to join President Lula ' s Global Alliance against Hunger and Poverty to bring an end to the lost decade in that fight , because this be also an investment in stability and in tackle the factor that force people to leave their home and make long journey that too often end with criminal gang exploit they and put their life at risk in the english channel . we will smash those gang . I be sure the House will welcome last week ' s news from the Netherlands , where the National Crime Agency , operate with european partner , arrest a man suspect of be a major supplier of small boat equipment . we will hit these organise criminal with the full force of the law , but we will also work with our partner to address the root cause of the problem . the G20 represent 85 % of global GDP , so we have a share interest in drive up growth and investment . I hold productive bilateral meeting with many G20 leader to that end : Brazil , Japan , Italy , South Africa , the Republic of Korea and other . I also meet representative of Italy and Japan to take forward the global combat air programme , which will build the next generation of fighter jet , create high - skilled job and strengthen our national security for the long term . I have a good discussion with Prime Minister Modi about deepen our bilateral tie . we agree to raise the ambition of our UK - India comprehensive strategic partnership , which cover security , defence , technology , climate , health and education , build on the unique bond and cultural tie between our two country . crucially , this work will start with trade and investment , and I be pleased to say that we agree to relaunch free trade agreement negotiation early in the new year . I also hold a bilateral meeting with President Xi . this be the first leader - level meeting between the United Kingdom and China for six year . we have a frank , constructive and pragmatic discussion as G20 economy and permanent member of the UN Security Council . at a time of huge volatility , we both recognise the importance of engagement . I be clear that we will always act in our national interest , but we need to work together on challenge such as climate change and deliver growth . we agree a new dialogue on these issue , which my right hon . friend the Chancellor will take forward with Vice Premier he in Beijing . of course , there will continue to be area where we do not agree , and we will address they clearly and frankly . they include a number of human right issue , the sanctioning of member of this House and , of course , Hong Kong , but here too we need to engage . the lesson of history be that we be well able to deal with problem , and the world be safe , when leader talk , so we agree to keep this channel of communication open . although it be not on the formal agenda of the G20 , the spectre of conflict loom large over the summit . conflict be spread misery , destruction and despair , and cause child to starve and family to flee their home . I call again for the immediate and unconditional release of the hostage in Gaza , who be always uppermost in our mind . I also call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and for a massive increase in the flow of aid , which be desperately need . yesterday , we back a UN Security Council resolution to that end . we must find way to make this international pressure count , to end the suffering on all side . the G20 coincide with the marking of 1 , 000 day of conflict in Ukraine . for the third year run , Putin do not attend . instead , on the eve of the summit , he launch Russia ' s big attack for month , kill yet more innocent Ukrainians and hit civilian energy infrastructure at the start of winter , and he indulge yet again in dangerous , irresponsible rhetoric . this be a member of the UN Security Council act with contempt for the UN charter . whereas Brazil make find solution to hunger and poverty the focus of its presidency , in recent week russian missile have continue to rain down on civilian ship carry grain bind for Africa . it could not be more clear : this be a man who want destruction , not peace . after 1 , 000 day of war — 1 , 000 day of ukrainian bravery and sacrifice — I be clear that we must double down on our support . we will not be deter or distract by reckless threat . we have consistently say that we will do what it take to support Ukraine and put it in the good possible position go into the winter . the UK ' s support for Ukraine be always for self - defence , and it be proportionate , co - ordinated and agile . it be a response to Russia ' s own action , and it be in accordance with international law . under article 51 of the UN charter , Ukraine have a clear right of self - defence against Russia ' s illegal attack . I say again that Russia could roll back its force and end this war tomorrow . until then , we will stand up for what we know be right , for Ukraine ' s security and for our own security , and we will back Ukraine with what be need for as long as it be need . in challenge time , I take the view that british leadership matter more than ever . for the sake of our growth , our security and make our presence feel , give the british people a voice on the global stage once again and stand up for the national interest , I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . with your permission , Mr Speaker , may I take this opportunity to express heartfelt condolence on my behalf and that of my party on the death of Lord Prescott . he be a titan of british politic in the 1990 , one of this country ' s great example of social mobility , and a true patriot — no one who have two jag could not love this country . we all especially remember that moment when he connect with the electorate during the 2001 general election . many of we across the country , as well as the public , be very much on his side during that altercation . may he rest in peace . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . as he say , this week mark the 1 , 000th day of Russia ' s unprovoked invasion . Ukraine be in a fight for its survival . the people of Ukraine be in our thought daily , but those thought must translate into action — action from we and from our ally . I be proud of the last Conservative Government ' s contribution to Ukraine : £ 12 billion - worth of military , humanitarian and economic support ; a commitment to spend at least £ 3 billion a year on military support ; and hit Russia with the large sanction package ever impose on a major economy . I say we would be a constructive opposition , and I mean it . we will work with the Government to ensure that british support for Ukraine be steadfast and continue . however , at the G20 , the Prime Minister be not able to achieve his goal of get leader to double down on support for Ukraine . as Chancellor Scholz say : " it be too little when the G20 can not find the word to make it clear Russia be responsible . " the Prime Minister ' s meet with the chinese President have also attract much interest . a day after his meeting with President Xi , in which the Prime Minister say he want a respectful relationship where both country avoid surprise , 45 pro - democracy campaigner be imprison in Hong Kong . I be disappoint not to hear the Prime Minister condemn that at the time . will he do so now , unequivocally ? will the Prime Minister confirm that he explicitly call for the repeal of the national security law and for an end to Jimmy Lai ' s politically motivate trial when he meet President Xi ? can he point to any tangible benefit for UK interest from that meeting ? COP have not yet conclude , so we do not know what the final impact on the UK will be , but we do know that the Prime Minister ' s rush to a further cut in our emission be yet another example of politician put short - term publicity above long - term planning . when will he publish the plan to achieve this new target ? where this government do the right thing , we will back they ; but where they put politic before people , and where they put press release before practicality , we will hold they to account . it be time for politician to tell the truth , and it be time for the Prime Minister to provide some substance to back this costly rhetoric . give how badly thing be go at home , I be sure it be a lot easy being in Baku and at the G20 , but while the Prime Minister be in Rio de Janeiro , hard - work farmer be protest outside the gate of Downing Street against his cruel family farm tax . his Government have stoke inflation , and the Budget have cause employer to warn of job loss , price hike and shop closure due to labour ' s job tax . he need to show that what he be do abroad be in the interest of this country and make life well . that be why I welcome the Prime Minister ' s continuation of FTA negotiation with India . however , beyond the work we start , at the moment the Prime Minister ' s foreign policy be a pick and mix of empty platitude , unilateral commitment that he could have announce at home and dangerous precedent : rush to give away the Chagos island , and pay for the privilege ; an ill - judge suspension of export licence to Israel , damage our defence and security industry ; and fail to set out a road map for spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , in a world that be become yet more dangerous . I hope the Prime Minister be up to the very real and serious challenge pose to our security and prosperity . he have many question to answer this morning , and I look forward to hear his response . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for her tribute to John Prescott . we really appreciate that , and I be sure his family will as well . on the broad issue of Ukraine , I welcome the continued unity across the House . the conflict have go on for just over 1 , 000 day , and I be proud of the fact that throughout that time we have have unity across the House . I welcome the fact that we will continue to do so . if we divide on the issue , the only winner will be Putin and I be not prepared to let that happen . in relation to the G20 word , it be clear about the UN charter . my position on double down be absolutely clear in everything I say on the record at G20 and in everything I have say and do in the past few week . on China , I make it very clear in my meeting with the President that where we disagree , we will be frank and open about that disagreement and raise those issue of concern . on the right hon . Lady ' s specific question about the action in Hong Kong , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , make a statement condemn that action just a few day ago . I be happy to repeat and affirm her position , because that be the Government ' s position . the right hon . Lady will have see some of the reference to other issue that I raise in my meeting . those issue be raise consistently with the Chinese by all member of this Government and , to be fair , they be raise by member of the previous Government when they be in office . again , there be a lot of common ground . on COP , we use the meeting to push forward on the target . it be a shame that what use to be a cross - party issue not so many year ago — [ interruption . ] when COP be in Scotland , there be a real unity across the House about the importance of tackle one of the most central issue of our time . the fact that the Leader of the opposition be now take the position of attack the very idea of set target show just how far the conservative party have fall . on this issue , I be proud that under some of her predecessor we have that unity . it be a shame that have now be lose because of the position adopt by the Opposition . the right hon . Lady reference my being at G20 in Rio when the farmer be protest . G20 be an opportunity for the lead economy of the world to get together and discuss question of common issue on the economy and security . if her implication be that the UK should not be there at leader level — that we should join Putin in avoid that meeting — and that be the position of her party , then she should say so . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . at this time of such great uncertainty and with so many threat , there have never be a more important time for Britain to be back on the world stage , and we have be miss . we can be a force for good , and our great friend , the sadly miss John Prescott , would be cheer the Prime Minister on as he take a leadership role in tackle the most important threat of all — climate change . John be an early champion of that . will my right hon . friend give we more detail about how the UK - lead global clean power alliance use our convening power on international finance to unlock private finance , support the climate transition and help the develop world ? the clean power alliance be a global alliance , and country be line up to sign our initiative to speed up the development of renewable to ensure we have the funding — and that be the great opportunity . climate be a huge challenge and we have obligation that we must meet globally , but it be also the single big opportunity we have for investment in job in this country , for energy security and to ensure the safety and security of everyone in this country . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . Mr Speaker , may I echo your word about the passing of John Prescott ? he dedicate himself to serve people and his enormous influence will be feel long into the future , not just in this country but around the world , with his incredible achievement of secure the world ' s first international agreement on climate change at Kyoto . our thought be with his family and friend , and with those across the House , too . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I welcome his commitment at Baku to the new emission target . we support those target . when will he set out an action plan to meet they ? many family across the country will be worried not just about climate change , but about an increasingly insecure world : the devastating conflict in the middle east ; the action of China , not least with the continue imprisonment of Jimmy Lai ; the war in Sudan , of which I be alarmed to see no mention in the G20 declaration ; and on our own continent , where Putin ' s force continue to wage their illegal and outrageous war against the innocent people of Ukraine . on the middle east , we welcome the reiteration of the G20 ' s commitment to the two - state solution and the call for ceasefire in Gaza and Lebanon . but with the United States once again veto a UN resolution for a ceasefire in Gaza , do the Prime Minister agree that now be the moment for the UK to recognise the independent state of Palestine ? on Ukraine , we welcome the new approval on long - range missile . we must give our ukrainian ally whatever they need to win this war . the reality be that that support should have be give soon . why have it take the threat of a second trump presidency for there to be action ? this be a war for our security and for the value we hold dear . do the Prime Minister agree that now be the moment for the UK to lead in Europe ? will the Prime Minister convene a summit of european leader to seize the russian asset which be at our fingertip ? we must not and can not look back at this moment and wonder whether we could have do more . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his tribute to John Prescott . I be pleased to set out our emission target and of course we will set out our plan , but the single most important issue be achieve clean power by 2030 . that be the game changer and one of the Government ' s five mission . on Sudan , he rightly raise an important issue , which I do raise at the G20 . on Gaza , we support the UN Security Council resolution , as I reference in my word early . we have a long - stand policy on recognise Palestine as part of the process . a two - state solution be the only way for a political solution to this awful and ongoing conflict . on Ukraine , careful decision be make , co - ordinate and collaborate with our key ally . on russian asset , action be be take . that be already be do in a number of forum , as I think the right hon . Gentleman know . I congratulate the Prime Minister on the restoration of UK leadership . Lord Prescott , who do so much to lead on Kyoto , would be truly proud of my right hon . friend ' s work and that of his Cabinet . I be very proud to lead the UK Inter - parliamentary Union delegation to Baku this weekend , where we hear loud and clear a report from finance expert who say that we need $ 1 trillion a year in climate finance between now and 2030 . the UK have lead from the front , but the reality be that we can not hit that target without build a big World Bank . we could lead that charge by recycle some of the £ 3 billion we get back from the European Investment Bank . be that an initiative the Prime Minister could look into ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . on UK leadership , we be back lead on the stage . the sentiment among other leader be that they be glad to see the UK back , lead on these issue . their word to I be that they feel there have be an absence under the previous Government . on finance , this be really important . there be a number of way we should and can leverage private money to meet very important challenge , whether the global climate challenge or other challenge . we take step at COP to set out how those mechanism could be improve . I strongly welcome the decision to allow Ukraine to strike against target in Russia , from which missile , drone and glide bomb be launch . in discuss how good to support Ukraine , will the Prime Minister say what progress be make in assist Ukraine ' s own military industrial sector to allow it to develop its own technology and to reduce its reliance on the West ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that issue , because I think it be very important that that work go on . we be make our own contribution to that . I will not go into the detail here , as he will understand , but I can make sure that he have a meeting , should he wish one , to give some of the detail of that . in the Prime Minister ' s statement , he refer to the £ 1 billion investment for wind turbine in Hull . how do he envision that will benefit and improve life and opportunity for my constituent in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? I be very pleased to announce the work in Hull , with about 1 , 300 well - pay job there , make the blade for wind turbine . it be not that many year ago that I go to the Whitelee wind farm just outside Glasgow ; there be 350 or so wind turbine up there . I ask how many be build in Britain and the answer be none — not a single component . not only be this announcement very good for Hull , with well - pay , secure job , but it be very good for the United Kingdom that we be begin to make the component for wind turbine . I return the Prime Minister to his meeting with President Xi . he may recall that at the time , President Xi put four red line , one of which be about democracy and human right , which he say he would " allow no challenge " . I have be in contact with many Hong Kong refugee here , who flee Hong Kong , and they be worried about the Prime Minister ' s failure to condemn the arrest of the 45 and to call for their release and that of Jimmy Lai . I do not believe the Prime Minister really answer the question properly , so I will give he another opportunity . can he now get to the Dispatch Box — he can forget that another Minister who might have say it — and say , right now , that he as Prime Minister condemn the Chinese Government for their arrest and incarceration of the 45 peaceful democracy campaigner and call for they to release the campaigner and Jimmy Lai immediately , because they be in breach of the sino - british agreement ? I be happy to affirm and confirm all of that . I do raise those issue — [ interruption . ] I say I condemn it a moment ago and I be happy to say so . [ interruption . ] I just do and I will say it again . these be serious issue that the right hon . Member have consistently raise , and I recognise that and we have discuss the matter between ourselves on previous occasion . it be important that where we have these significant difference , particularly on issue of human right , we have frank , open discussion about they . that be why these matter have be raise repeatedly , and I myself raise they in the meeting I have early this week and will continue to do so . I be happy to be clear about that condemnation and to repeat that for he . I know the Prime Minister share my disappointment at the weakness of the G20 statement on Ukraine , compare with the G7 statement . when he meet President Xi , do he raise China ' s support of Russia in the war in Ukraine and ask he to step back and join we in try to end the war in Ukraine on fair term for the Ukrainians ? yes , I do raise the position of China ' s stance in relation to the conflict and there be a clear read - out of the meeting . it be not the first time that have be raise by this Government or , in fairness , by the previous one . not all member of the G20 at the summit be as concerned about the russian invasion of Ukraine as the UK be . ahead of the summit , it be say that the Prime Minister would talk about the " unfathomable consequence " if Putin succeed . do the Prime Minister talk to some of those sceptical leader about those consequence ? if so , what do they say ? yes , of course I do . Russia be a member of the G20 . Putin be not there . the conservative party seem to be suggest that we should not have be there either , which I find a very odd implication . but , yes , it be really important to take every opportunity at these sort of meeting to have the discussion that we need to have at leader level not only with our close ally , but with those who do not agree with we , so that we can raise those concern and try to find a way forward , which be what we do . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself with your remark , the Prime Minister ' s remark and the remark of other about the late Lord Prescott ? he really be a one - off , and I will never forget his kindness and support of I . on the substantive issue of the statement , I wish to congratulate the Prime Minister and colleague on last night ' s Security Council vote to try to get Israel to provide humanitarian access to Gaza . but on its own , the vote will not stop the israeli Government ' s destruction of palestinian life and home . the inaction that we see from the previous Government over the past year mean that there be an even great pressure on this Government to act quickly . give that israeli Government Ministers be knowingly ignore international law and order preparation for the annexation of illegal settlement to start in January , will the Prime Minister impose sanction on they and the organisation that fund they ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the important issue of the west bank and settlement . it be a major and escalating cause of concern and have be for some time . certainly , sanction have be impose in the past and will continue to be impose . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement condemn China ' s action , but can he make a commitment here , now and completely clearly that , before any Minister meet any chinese official , they will meet with the family of Jimmy Lai , or indeed any of the other many hongkonger who be here and whose family have now be detain . we know — we can brief the Prime Minister on this — that there be hongkonger who be threaten by the chinese state here in the UK today , and it be his job to defend the people of this country , not to bow to the people in Beijing . defend the people of this country be what we do every day . raise these important issue be the right way to do it . I be very clear about what I raise , and that be a matter of public record , as the right hon . member will well know . in the past few day , the Labour Government have reaffirm our commitment to Ukraine in its existential war against russian aggression , reaffirm our commitment to combat climate change in all our interest , and reaffirm our commitment to back the UN ' s resolution for a ceasefire in Gaza and the release of all hostage . do the Prime Minister agree that , at a time of global volatility , geopolitical uncertainty and rise authoritarianism , it be more important than ever that Britain and Britain ' s value be back in action on the global stage ? I do agree with that . it be clear that we live in a more volatile time now than I think many of we can remember . these be issue of global concern — whether that be climate change or conflict — and they have a direct impact on the United Kingdom , so it be in our national interest to show the leadership that we have be show on these issue . that leadership be sadly miss under the previous Government . Mr Speaker , may I associate myself and my colleague with your remark and the remark of hon . member on the passing of John Prescott ? John be a deeply principled man , clearly drive by a desire to improve people ' s life . our thought be with his wife , Pauline , and his family . the investment that we have see in renewable , particularly in Scotland , not only be essential in tackle the climate crisis , but have the potential to enable people to live in warm home with low bill . however , the totally outdated set - up of the UK ' s energy market , where electricity price be tie to global gas price , mean that people be not feel the benefit of the roll - out of cheap renewable energy source . as temperature drop below freezing and million of pensioner struggle without the winter fuel payment , will the Prime Minister now commit to domestic energy price reform ? this be a really important point , and I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise it . we be power forward to clean power by 2030 , which will not just achieve independence , particularly to stop Putin put his boot on our throat with energy bill — everybody have suffer because of that — but will also bring down price , mean cheap bill , which be really important . to the hon . Gentleman ' s point at the beginning of his question , it will deliver the next generation of well - pay , secure job across the United Kingdom , include in Scotland . a couple of year ago , my constituent be hit hard by rocket gas price and energy bill , because the last Government leave the UK hook on global gas market control by dictator such as Vladimir Putin . follow the COP summit , can the Prime Minister reassure my constituent in North Warwickshire and Bedworth that he will work relentlessly to ensure that nothing like that ever happen again ? yes , I can ; it be an important point . all country be impact by the conflict in Ukraine . we be impact more than other country , because some of the step that could have be take in the move towards renewable be not take at speed by the previous Government , and people across the country pay the price . give the Prime Minister ' s unequivocal backing of Ukraine , and his admirable assertion that Putin must be see to fail , will he rule out replace , if she have to be replace , our professional diplomatic ambassador in Washington with a party politician who have state that Ukraine must lose the occupy territory to Russia , give up on become a member of NATO , and rely instead on security guarantee from european state ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the joint position in relation to the importance of Ukraine . I will resist the temptation that he offer for I to start discuss the position that he reference . I echo your remark , Mr Speaker , and those of the Prime Minister about Lord Prescott . he be a true embodiment of working - class value and aspiration . as he always use to say , nothing be too good for the worker . this weekend , I will join Rochdale ' s ukrainian community to commemorate the 91st anniversary of the Holodomor , Stalin ' s man - make famine against the ukrainian people , which result in the loss of up to 4 million life . do the Prime Minister agree that the Russians will never crush the spirit of the ukrainian people , and that we will do everything possible to aid they in their defence against russian aggression ? yes , I agree . I be strike during the general election campaign , as I think member of all party will have be wherever they campaign across the country , that support for Ukraine be there in every quarter of the United Kingdom . I be very proud of the fact that that be the position across our country . I be strike that the Prime Minister ' s statement contain not a single reference in to our most important security and trading partner , the United States , particularly at this time of change , with the good news of the election of President Trump . while the Prime Minister be at the COP summit , he may have miss the fact that growth be fall in this country , debt be rise , and the motor industry be panic as job be be destroy . just yesterday , Nissan announce further job cut , as have Ford , because of electric vehicle target , which be cause irreversible damage to our motor industry . what be the question ? I do not think that there be a question . we have stabilise the economy , and we have an absolute mission on growth . there be no growth for 14 year . the hon . Gentleman ' s party be cheer along the mini - Budget not so long ago , which be the major cause of many of the problem that we be face today . may I offer my condolence to Lord Prescott ' s family ? he be a true pioneer and an inspiring role model , and he will be remember here and in every place that benefit from his leadership and support for community and neighbourhood . last month , I meet my constituent Sebastien Lai . we talk about my constituent Jimmy Lai , the british citizen who have be arbitrarily detain . I share my heartfelt thank and the thank of my constituent ' s family to the Prime Minister for raise his case at the G20 . will he share his expectation as a result of the conversation ? I raise it personally myself because it be such an important case , and it be very important that we continue to do so . it be raise by Government Ministers every time we engage with China . it be such an important case — this House know the detail — which be why I take the opportunity in the meeting I have early this week to raise it directly with the President . everyone in the House welcome high ambition for our country , but give the complexity of deliver against the ambitious target that the Prime Minister set out , there will be apprehensiveness about other country go down the track at a different pace , which will have implication for our economy . may I draw his attention to the excellent comment make by his Chancellor about the financial service industry last week at the Mansion House ? what assessment have he make of the prospect of another economic and financial dialogue with China , build on the one I attend in 2019 in London , as an opportunity to extend economic dialogue , which have to be positive for the UK economy ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for reference the Chancellor ' s excellent Mansion House speech last week . on matter economic , I do think there be a dialogue to be have with China . it need to be pragmatic and serious , and it need to sit alongside the frank discussion we need to have , as we have reference in this House , on the issue on which we disagree . but I do think there be room for that dialogue in the national interest — in our own interest . I associate myself with the condolence for Lord Prescott . I welcome G20 leader call for a comprehensive ceasefire in Gaza and Lebanon and the UK ' s decision to support a resolution on the ceasefire . I thank the Prime Minister for his personal involvement in ensure that this would happen . sadly , we seem to be move far and far away from peace . Gaza be on the verge of famine , and Palestinians be be deprive by Israel of food and humanitarian aid . the countdown on the United Nations Relief and Works Agency come to an end be loom . will he share what conversation he have have to press Israel to either reverse or pause its decision , or to explain how it will meet its obligation under international law ? I thank my hon . friend very much for raise this issue . I have press the issue on numerous occasion with many leader in the region and elsewhere . we have to keep press for the hostage to be release . we must never forget that they have be hold for a very long time , and in the most awful of circumstance , and what their family be go through be absolute torture . but we also absolutely need to be clear that aid be desperately need in Gaza , where ten of thousand of people have be kill . that aid need to get in , and it need to get in urgently . I will continue to press that case . time be run out at COP29 and the clock be tick on the climate crisis . I welcome the leadership show by the Prime Minister in attend COP29 and set ambitious target for the UK . the need to agree a global finance goal be vital , and make progress in Baku be clearly challenging . will he assure I that he be pull out all the stop this week to ensure that an agreement be reach and that it will be adequate to meet the need of the poor country ? will he assure the House that the UK ' s pledge will be primarily in the form of grant ? as the hon . Lady know , those discussion be ongoing , and it be important that we play our full part in ensure that they conclude in a satisfactory way . alongside that , it be important that we push the case for leverage private finance , which will be need to meet this challenge , and we be continue to do that . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s global leadership — he have restore our place on the world stage . climate change be the big threat face we all . that use to be an uncontroversial statement , which be why I be stunned to hear the Leader of the opposition describe the action we have take to deal with that problem as be do for " short - term publicity . " that be absolutely outrageous . be the Prime Minister as delighted as I be that the climate sceptic of the conservative party be now sit on the Opposition Benches , so that we can take the long - term decision from the Government Benches ? it be a great shame that the conservative party have decide to go backwards on that important challenge . not so many year ago , there be a united position across the House because it be such an important challenge . I think that be simply a sign of how far the Conservatives have fall . it be unsurprise that they be on the Opposition Benches . may they remain there for very long time . I welcome the commitment that the Prime Minister share with Prime Minister Modi in their discussion . the Prime Minister set out in his statement the position on reignite the free trade talk that begin under the previous Government . do he set out any red line on that free trade agreement , and have a timetable be agree ? the previous Prime Minister promise a free trade agreement by Diwali . will this Prime Minister set a different timescale ? I think the hon . Gentleman will find that the previous Government make lot of promise about lot of thing — the only unify factor be that they meet none of those promise at all . we heighten the ambition for the agreement and make it clear that the negotiation would restart early in the next year . of course there be check and balance , and discussion to be have on that , but I be pleased that we have raise that ambition . that engagement be constructive and in the good interest of our country . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s comment about the late Lord John Prescott ? he be a giant of this place and of the labour movement . my condolence go to his family and love one . the Prime Minister may know that , as the G20 communiqu é once again recommit to advance the goal of a world free of nuclear weapon , a groundbreaking and upset BBC documentary air show the harrowing experience of british nuclear test veteran and uncover vital new information . I know that he have long support those man and their family , so will he agree to meet they , I , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) and the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) to discuss the Government ' s next step on secure long - await truth and recognition ? I thank and pay tribute to she for her personal work on that issue , on which she have be press for a number of year , with considerable success . as she know , I have meet the veteran myself , and member of the Government will be happy to do so in future . it be a really important issue . she have be press on it for a number of year , and I pay tribute to she again for that . on the Prime Minister ' s plan to decarbonise the grid by 2030 , can he guarantee that in that timeframe there will no power shortage , no blackout and no energy rationing ? yes . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark . I remember the late Lord Prescott visit the Clapham Park Project — in one of the new deal for community area — and in true John Prescott style , he turn up on the estate in his Jaguar . food insecurity be such a big issue , and flood and drought can cause food insecurity for many country . Trussell Trust datum highlight in 2023 that 7 . 2 million people , include 17 % of child , face food poverty . I attend an event early this week host by my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and too good to go . it highlight how we can use food surplus and help retailer and consumer . how be the Prime Minister work with international partner to highlight the crucial issue of food insecurity , which be sometimes not talk about ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . I raise food security at the G20 summit early this week . my hon . Friend also refer to flood . for anybody who be sceptical about COP , there be a very powerful set of intervention by the spanish Prime Minister about the impact that climate have have recently , with the terrible flooding in Spain . that be a material reminder of why we must never let up , and why we should not be divide , on the important issue of climate change . a breakthrough moment at COP28 , the previous COP , be the creation of the loss and damage fund , but the financial contribution from each individual country be miserable , include that of the UK . support community and climate - vulnerable country be in all our interest , because it prevent large - scale migration when land become uninhabitable . will the Prime Minister commit to an increase financial contribution to the loss and damage fund ? I be not go to set out financial contribution here . the focus that we bring to COP be on the future action and resilience planning that be need and be absolutely determined to work with partner to make the transition , for example , to clean energy across so many other country . I associate myself with the remark from Mr Speaker and the Prime Minister about John Prescott . although I do not know he personally , it be fair to say that he be clearly a phenomenon . the Prime Minister will be fully aware of the importance of the investment of Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Group here in the United Kingdom and to my constituency of Warwick and Leamington . will he give his assessment of UK - India relation follow his bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi ? relation with India after the discussion early this week be in a constructive and positive place , which be good for my hon . friend ' s constituent and for the country . as he will know and expect , I have separately discuss issue with the Tata Group in relation to its investment into this country . obviously , President Lula ' s Global Alliance against Hunger and Poverty be to be welcome , but such initiative become mere platitude if they be not back up by action and resource . in practical term , what be the UK ' s commitment to this initiative ? it be an important initiative . we back it early this week , and we will support the action that come out of it ; I make that clear in my contribution . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that these initiative need to be back up by action to carry they forward , and we will make sure that they be . I add my voice to the tribute pay to Lord Prescott . I thank the Prime Minister for his update on COP29 . what be his priority for the UK ' s international climate leadership in the run - up to COP30 in Brazil ? do he discuss that with President Lula in their bilateral discussion ? yes , I do , because COP next year will be very significant and important , as I think everybody recognise . what be need more than anything be for other country to follow the lead of this country in relation to their emission target , and I discuss that directly with he . I add my condolence to John Prescott ' s family on their loss . I also thank John for his life and , in particular , for the joy of campaign with he where he be much love during the 2017 and 2019 election . the Prime Minister be right to say that refugee flow be cause in part by climate change , but they be also cause by war . what do the G20 summit say about the war in Sudan and Congo , as well as the need for a ceasefire in Gaza ? while Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine be obviously wrong , what pathway do he see to bring about a cessation of that conflict , rather than put in long - range missile , which can only exacerbate the conflict with Russia and lead we to a very dangerous place indeed ? be there a pathway to an end to that war that he or anyone else in the G20 see during their meeting ? I do raise both climate and conflict as major driver of migration across the world , which be why they need to be address at the international level . in relation to Ukraine , I be very clear that Russia be in breach of the UN charter . this be russian aggression against a sovereign country in Europe — the sort of aggression I do not think I would see again in my lifetime — and we must ensure that Putin do not win this war . that be why I have be so clear in stand with Ukraine for as long as it take , and provide it with whatever resource it need . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and for his display of unity with the french President Emmanuel Macron on Armistice Day . we have go from Tory Prime Ministers who question whether France be even an ally , and who leave Normandy early , to a Labour Prime Minister who stand shoulder to shoulder with our french and european ally . do the Prime Minister agree that strong alliance with our european neighbour be crucial to our peace and security ? yes , I do . to attend the Armistice Day in France be a special and important — [ interruption . ] I be sorry ? I be say that it be a very special and moving occasion , on which we remember all those who lose their life for our freedom . I be not sure why the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) want to chunter through that . we be able to collectively reflect on all those who lose their life , not only in the first world war , but in every conflict since . we should never lose sight of the fact that many of those whom we lose be bury in France , and it be a very special moment to be there . John Prescott be a remarkable climate diplomat , and a funny , move , and strangely mesmerise speaker , but he be also aware that while ambitious climate target be necessary , climate action be essential . on that point , I understand that the hydrogen allocation round 1 agreement be ready to go . can the Prime Minister commit to get those agreement issue to company , so that we can get the hydrogen economy go before Christmas , together with the job that go with it ? I want this initiative to proceed at pace ; it be a really important initiative . there be no silver bullet here . we need to work across all area to reach the goal of clean power by 2030 , and we will continue to do so at pace . I echo the remark of the Prime Minister and other about John Prescott . rarely have there be a well example of the fact that work people be mean to govern , and I hope that John know what a great example he be to so many of we on the Labour Benches and across this House . it be clear that we must take a far large role in international affair — that be not optional at this time — but that role must translate into great prosperity at home . can the Prime Minister expand on how the conversation he have at the G20 and COP will bring more job and investment to community such as mine in Gateshead ? I agree with my hon . friend that international affair be probably more important now than they have be for a number of year , because of the volatility , but they be also a great opportunity , because the next generation of job be there . there be a race on for those job , particularly in renewable , and I want the UK to be not just in that race , but win it . that be why , in every international engagement that I have have , I have press the case for the UK , and I be very pleased with the investment that be now come into our country . an example I give be the investment in Hull , which I announce at COP ; but at our investment summit a few week ago , £ 63 billion of investment in this country , which will be measure in good , well - pay job , be forthcoming . that be good for our country . give the Prime Minister ' s optimism on his return from COP29 , can he tell the House how the deal that he sign there will uphold his promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 for constituent such as mine , and when can they expect to see that promise become a reality ? yes . the direct investment in job in Hull to build turbine be obviously really important for that constituency and for the country , and I will continue to make the case for those deal to be do , with those job to come , so that we can drive forward to clean power . that will have the effect of protect energy security , but also of lower energy bill . last week , I have the privilege of meet some member of the Ukrainian Parliament , and I know that they will have be hearten by the leadership that my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have show on the world stage this week . do the Prime Minister agree that there be only one aggressor in this conflict , and that the way to end the war be , in his own word , for Putin to " get out of Ukraine " ? yes , I do . I think we must never lose sight of the fact that this war could be end today if the aggressor cease be aggressive — if Russia back out and back down . there be no equivalence here . a sovereign country have be invade , and that be why , across this House , we have stand with Ukraine for as long as it take , and will continue to do so . I be proud that the Liberal Democrats be the first UK - wide major party to call for an immediate bilateral ceasefire between Israel and Gaza , and we continue to push the Prime Minister to honour that position . I be also proud that many Eastbourne campaigner have be call for that from the get - go , and have come out to condemn the rise tide of Islamophobia and antisemitism across the country . what global effort to stem this tide of prejudice do the Prime Minister discuss with G20 leader , and will he congratulate muslim and jewish leader in Eastbourne , as well as incredible neighbourhood police officer such as Fareed Kamar — you know he too , Madam Deputy Speaker — for unite to root out hate crime locally ? I be very happy to applaud anybody who be take on the fight against hate crime in all its form . I think one of the sad feature of the last few year have be the rise in hate crime in all its form . I think all of we have a responsibility — a duty — to do everything we can to reduce hate crime , so I be very happy to applaud anybody involve in that , include in the hon . member ' s constituency . I associate myself with the tribute to Lord Prescott , and send my condolence to his family . I very warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , particularly on COP . as member across this House have acknowledge , it be great to see the UK show international leadership on action to combat climate change once more . give this Government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower , can the Prime Minister tell we how great British Energy will result in low fuel bill for my resident in Dartford , Ebbsfleet , Swanscombe and Greenhithe , as well as for those across the country ? yes . great British Energy , which will be publicly own , will drive forward on renewable , towards clean power in 2030 . we have to make up time , because of the slowness of the conservative party , but we be determined to do so . this will be measure in energy independence — so that Putin ' s boot will not be on our throat , as it be in recent year — in the job of the future , and in lower energy bill . we know that one thing the Prime Minister be discuss with President Xi in August be the planning application for the chinese embassy . he say to the President : " you raise the Chinese Embassy building … when we speak on the telephone , and we have since take action by call in that application . " what discussion do Downing Street have with the Department about that call - in prior to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s formal decision to call in the chinese embassy planning application ? the right hon . Member will know very well that the application have be in for a number of year . it be something the previous Government be look at , and it be be deal with through the usual process . may I associate myself with the expression of condolence to Lord Prescott ' s family and friend ? give that this be UK Parliament Week , do the Prime Minister agree that his statement should reassure young people , who need hope that global issue be tackle , and that his and Ministers ' effort at international forum , such as COP29 and the G20 , be vital ? do he far agree that it be this Government who be renew and strengthen our alliance , and demonstrate that great international co - operation can defend our value and leave a well world for our child ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I think we all need to remind ourselves that it be young people more than any who will live with the consequence of our action or inaction , and that be why I be very pleased that the UK be lead again on these important global issue . among other leader of the G20 , the absence of UK leadership in recent year under the previous Government be keenly feel . I note the Prime Minister ' s comment on COP . he will know , of course , that the agricultural industry be one of the most difficult area to decarbonise ; that will require substantial investment . will his family farm tax help or hinder that ? I be very pleased that , at the Budget , we put £ 5 billion over the next two year into farming and food sustainability , which be hugely important to support our farmer . the hon . Gentleman will no doubt have notice the money allocate to deal with flooding , a constant cause of problem for farmer , and the money put into deal with the outbreak of disease , which be devastating for so many farmer . he will also know that in an average case of parent want to pass on a farm to one of their child , by the time the various assessment be make , it be only those value above £ 3 million that will be affect by this , despite the fear - monger from Opposition Members . that mean that the vast majority of farm and farmer will be totally unaffected , as I know the hon . Gentleman appreciate . may I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the late Lord Prescott ? now that the Prime Minister have meet the chinese President , do he believe that we be in a well position to advance UK interest , and to challenge China on important issue such as human right , than we be in the last six year , in which no UK Prime Minister could even have those conversation , because they do not go to China ? that be an important point . this be about get the balance right . that be why I take a pragmatic approach in the interest of this country , in order to further our interest , and decide to have frank discussion where they be necessary . I believe it be well that we meet and engage than that we be absent from the international stage . the Prime Minister ' s focus on fight climate change on the international stage be a welcome change from the conspiracy theory and equivocation we have under the last government . one of the simple way to generate clean power in the UK be through solar panel , so will his Government take an interest in my private Member ' s Bill , the sunshine Bill — the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill , which would mandate solar photovoltaic generation on all new build home — when it come to the Commons on 17 January ? I have have a lot of document put in my box over the last few week , and I will make sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s sunshine Bill be in there , so that I be able to give he a well answer next time . I echo the very warm tribute to Lord Prescott from across the House . one of the warm tribute to he from outside this House be by former Vice - President Al Gore , who describe he as " an unwavering champion of climate action " . the Government ' s global clean power alliance build on that legacy , unite country to accelerate the transition to clean energy , but will the Prime Minister set out how this alliance and action will deliver low bill for my constituent and deliver UK energy security in the future ? yes . this alliance will push forward the UK ' s drive , and that of other country , towards renewable . that will have an impact on the constituent of everybody in this House , because it will give energy independence , low bill and , of course , the next generation of job , which will go elsewhere if we do not win these contract . in government , my party champion North sea oil and gas , secure 200 , 000 job , not just in Scotland but right across this country , in every constituency — include mine , rural Dumfries and Galloway . the Prime Minister talk about we have Putin ' s boot on our throat , but surely pull the plug on the North sea oil and gas industry , as he be do , deliver we into the hand of Putin and make our energy security less viable . as the hon . Gentleman know very well , North sea oil and gas be sell on the international market and therefore be subject to constraint . the proof be there ; over the last few year , we have have terribly high energy bill — it be bad in this country than in other . the suggestion that somehow the last Government insulate we from the impact feel by other country be ludicrous against the evidence . today , the United Nations have say that virtually no aid have get into Gaza for the past 40 day . this winter , hundred of thousand of people face malnutrition or bad . can the Prime Minister give an update on conversation he have at the G20 that could help we end this conflict , release the hostage and finally get aid back into Gaza ? I repeatedly press that matter not only at the G20 but elsewhere . that aid into Gaza be desperately and urgently need , and in much great volume than be currently make their way through . I have argue consistently for the release of the hostage — that have to be the starting point — for that aid to get into Gaza and for all of we to work for a long - term solution here . it have to be a peaceful way to the two - state solution . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . like the rest of the House , I agree that we must be a lead voice on the global stage . however , I would like to ask the Prime Minister why it be necessary to travel with 470 official to the G20 . notwithstanding the carbon footprint , there be the cost to the public purse , especially as I will have a lot of cold pensioner this winter . the contingent this year be actually few than the contingent last year . it involve a wide number of individual because a lot of negotiation , as the hon . member probably well know , go on at COP , and it be vital that we be there do that important work . what be clear throughout the Prime Minister ' s statement be the need for defence collaboration across the world , as we live in a much more unstable global situation . in his discussion with the australian leadership , be he able to recommit the UK to AUKUS ? can he give we an update on the next step , please ? I be able to discuss AUKUS with the australian Prime Minister in the G20 , as I have do on previous occasion when I have talk with he , include our full commitment and press on to the next stage . on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , may I send our sincere sympathy to the family of John Prescott on his passing ? he be indeed a mighty man . he will be miss , but the one thing he have leave behind be a legacy , and I think we can all recognise that . the Prime Minister will be aware that for these summit to be effective , there must be global buy - in . to see world leader , such as France , among those determine that it be not a good use of time pose a question . if a new format be need , what discussion have the Prime Minister have with other nation to ensure that meet environmental obligation be not something to be avoid , but instead be something to get excited about ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s comment on John Prescott and his legacy . I be so pleased to build on that legacy , both on climate , which John feel passionately about , and with the job we have be able to announce go to Hull . buy - in be a really important issue . it be why we need to show leadership , because we can not do it on our own — no country can . with the UK show leadership , we can get the buy - in of other country in whatever form and in whatever way we can . that be why I work so hard at COP on this issue , which be raise again at the G20 . it be why I be very supportive of the initiative for private finance to be leverage in to help other country meet the obligation they will have to meet . I be pleased to note that the Prime Minister have good discussion with Prime Minister Modi and deepen our bilateral tie and unique bond . can he assure I that my constituent Jagtar Singh Johal ' s seven - year arbitrary detention be raise with Modi in those discussion to help bring he home to Dumbarton ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter , and let I give he that reassurance that it be raise . it be an extremely important case , so it be raise by I , and it have be raise by other Ministers , as he would expect . business of the House the business for the week commence 25 November will include : Monday 25 November — Second reading of the Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill . Tuesday 26 November — second reading of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . Wednesday 27 November — Second reading of the Finance Bill . Thursday 28 November — debate on a motion on the international status of Taiwan , follow by a debate on a motion on freedom of religion in Pakistan . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 29 November — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 2 December include : Monday 2 December — general debate on the Grenfell Tower inquiry phase 2 report . Tuesday 3 December — Second reading of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . Wednesday 4 December — opposition day ( 4th allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Thursday 5 December — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 6 December — private member ' Bills . I associate hon . member on the Opposition side of the House with the comment make about Lord Prescott ' s death . I be delighted to hear that the House administration be aim to win the National Autistic Society ' s autism friendly award . I know that all colleague will want to join I in wish the House team good luck with that . in last week ' s episode of this long - run saga , I draw attention to the Government ' s incompetence in have a Budget that manage to raise the rate of national insurance , low the NI threshold and increase the minimum wage all at the same time . I describe that as a " terrible blow " to the retail and hospitality sector and ask if the Treasury would publish an assessment of the total effect of those measure before they come to the House . well , I need hardly have bother , because barely five day later , what do we find ? a letter from Tesco , Marks and Spencer , Sainsbury ' s , all the major supermarket and many of the big name in the retail industry highlight the Budget ' s impact in force shop closure and job loss . the sad truth be that there be nothing surprising here . it be completely obvious to everyone except the Government that this unplanned triple whammy be likely to have this effect . I ask the Leader of the House again : will we see an analysis of its effect when the Finance Bill come to the House next week or alongside the forthcoming National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill ? otherwise , I think we should turn our attention to energy . the Government have proclaim their intention to make Britain a 100 % clean energy producer by 2030 . a couple of week ago , the new National Energy System Operator publish a report on how that might be do . I must say that I be feel a degree of embarrassment , as I have be under the impression that the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be a slightly clownish figure , unable to eat a bacon sandwich without cause an international incident and with a political style closely model on Wallace and Gromit , but actually I be quite wrong . in fact , like the Chancellor of the Exchequer , the Secretary of State may need to update his cv . I now realise that he be a heroic figure ; the titan of transition . in fact , I will go far . the Energy Secretary be a modern Clark Kent , whose slightly bumbling , comedic exterior be merely a disguise conceal a range of astonishing superpower . think of what he will have to achieve if the UK be , as he promise , to have entirely carbon - free energy in just over five year ' time . he will have to build twice as many pylon and cable in those five year as we have build in the last 10 . he will have to get all the transmission infrastructure build on time and reshape the planning rule , or the taxpayer will be force to pay for wind turbine that stand idle . like the greek god Aeolus , this great baron of breeze will need to ensure that the wind blow and contract as much offshore wind capacity in the next two year as in the last six combine . he will also need to ensure that the global price of carbon double or triple just to make the sum add up . that be before one consider the effect of unexpected inflation , skill shortage , dependency on foreign energy technology and intermittency of supply . what could possibly go wrong ? meanwhile , the Energy Secretary ' s plan for small modular reactor have be delay while he plunge ahead with his plan to cut off gas turbine and leave we dangerously reliant on expensive foreign energy import . those plan be not simply heroic ; they be fanciful . they be magical thinking . what be bad , they be likely to be ruinously expensive both for the taxpayer and for the electricity user . it be little wonder that top business and union leader have come together to describe they as " just not feasible " and " impossible " . we have be here before with the three - day week of the 1970 , and the result be blackout and energy rationing . should we expect that again ? this be the rub : power reveal . we be see not merely a lack of competence but an Energy Secretary who have still not make any statement on the NESO report that I mention . he be deliberately refuse to account for his action to this House on this foundational matter , and he be hold the Commons in contempt . when can we expect a statement from the Energy Secretary on the NESO report ? when will he be force to come to the Dispatch Box to explain and defend this folly ? first of all , I join Mr Speaker and other in mark the sad loss of John Prescott . he be a true legend , and one of the good campaigner of our movement . he put climate change and real , meaningful levelling up at the top of the political agenda long before they be fashionable . he be groundbreake and huge fun , and he will be greatly miss . we send our condolence to Pauline and the whole family . as Mr Speaker say , there will be an opportunity for tribute next week . I be sure the whole House will also join I in mark Parliament Week , when we open our door on how we work in this place . today be " ask she to stand " day , when we encourage more woman to seek elect office . let I take this opportunity to point the House to a motion that I have table today , which make some important change to proxy vote for member . one of my priority as Leader of the House be to make Parliament more family friendly . we have more woman than ever in this place , and more parent of small child , those with caring responsibility and disabled member . we need to change the way that we do thing to reflect the time . I have ask the Procedure Committee to continue its wide review of the proxy vote system , and the Modernisation Committee will consider these issue in due course . however , I have hear from member that the current system have not meet some immediate need , so I be extend the childbirth , miscarriage or baby loss proxy provision to explicitly cover complication during pregnancy or ongoing fertility treatment . under this scheme , reason for proxy remain confidential and be self - certify , require no onerous paperwork . I be make the default for all proxy seven month , and I hope the whole House will welcome that . the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) raise a number of issue , but I must say I be lose track of the Opposition ' s argument . they attack our Budget measure , yet they support all the investment . they do not like our decision , yet they take many of the same one in government . they duck the difficult issue , yet criticise we for deal with they . yes , we have have to make some big choice , but we stand by they because we be on the side of ordinary people , the NHS and public service . we be operate in the interest of economic stability , unlike his party . we will see the impact of the Budget over time , but the conservative really must decide whether they support the investment and the extra spending on our public service , or whether they do not want any of it and be against that support . the right hon . Gentleman pick on the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , but there be not a more accomplished member of the Cabinet . he be drive forward his agenda . he be forthcoming to this House on many occasion , and every time he appear in this House , he wipe the floor with his opponent . yet again , the Conservatives be on the wrong side of history . we have a very ambitious mission to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 — one that we be drive forward . it be vital that we do that . that mean take on some of the inherent issue that they duck : our infrastructure ; the grid ; our planning law ; get the investment where it be need , which we be announce that all the time ; unlock new power supply in nuclear , solar , hydrogen and elsewhere ; and establish great British Energy , which be well under way , to ensure much need homegrown production . take together , those measure will lower bill , create job , and give we the energy security that the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government fail to give we . be not the truth that Opposition Members be become political opportunist ? they spend year in government duck the difficult decision , leave a huge black hole and a big mess for we to clean up . public service be on their knee , strike action be cost £ 15 billion in lose productivity , pay deal be on Ministers ' desk with not a penny account for , and not a single penny be set aside for the compensation scheme . the reserve be spend three time over , and on their watch inflation be at 11 % . living standard fall for the first time in our history under the Conservatives . now they want to have their cake and eat it at the same time . they want all the benefit from the Budget , but not the hard call need to pay for they . in a few short week , they have go from the party of government to the party of protest . my right hon . friend have illustrate a great many aspect of the mess that this Government have inherit from the last , include long waiting list , our crumble school and our fail economy , and nowhere be that mess more visible than on the A46 in Warwickshire , between Coventry and Stratford , which adjoin my constituency . last month , 12 tonne of rubbish be collect from the roadside because no clearing up have be do for many year — yet another example of the mess that be leave behind . may we have a debate in Government time not just on pothole , but on the state of our road and the mess that the last Government leave they in ? what well symbol could there be of the mess we have inherit than all that mess leave on the A46 in my hon . friend ' s constituency ? we be committed to tackle the plague of fly - tipping and the vandal who be create a mess in our community , and that be one of the reason why we be crack down on antisocial behaviour and introduce respect order so that those responsible can clean up their own mess . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , would like to pay my respect to Lord Prescott . although we do not serve in this place at the same time , it be impossible to have follow british politic over the past few decade without acknowledge his enormous influence . I also wish to extend my condolence to his family and friend . I be pleased to note the constructive approach take in the other place in relation to rail passenger service , include commitment secure by Liberal Democrats to make the delivery of improvement , and the maintaining of high standard of improvement , a crucial part of the Government ' s agenda . early this week , I receive an email from Essex & Herts Air Ambulance , a register charity that provide helicopter emergency medical service for the critically ill and injure of Essex , Hertfordshire and surround area . in the last financial year alone , its member attend 2 , 635 mission . it cost more than £ 1 million every month to keep the service operational and to cover all charitable cost . that would not be possible without the good will of people in Essex and Hertfordshire , but the recent change to employer ' national insurance contribution will cost the charity an additional £ 100 , 000 a year . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on how the impact of the rise in employer ’ nic can be mitigate specifically for the charitable sector , recognise the vital , sometimes lifesave role that it play in all our community ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word about John Prescott . I also thank she and her party for support the final stage of the rail franchising Bill . the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill complete all its stage in both Houses the other evening , which mean that it will be one of the first Bills to become an Act under this Labour Government . as she say , we be already see much - need increase reliability in our rail service as a result of the Bill come forward . I thank she for that . the hon . Lady raise a really important point , and I thank those who support the air ambulance service in her constituency and across Essex . as she know , the Health Secretary be look at how the massive increase in NHS funding in the Budget can be use to support other health charity and health service , and we will update the House soon . may I join other Members of the House in send my condolence to the Prescott family ? I use to sit with John when we do the prep for Prime Minister ' s question , and I now wish that I have take note of all the rebuttal and line that do not make the cut , because they would make one hell of a book . my constituent in Brent East , one of the most diverse constituency in the UK , deserve fair pay for a fair day ' s work . yesterday be equal pay day , which be two day early than normal , mean that thing be get bad . will the Leader of the House allow we to have a debate on this issue in Government time ? yesterday be indeed equal pay day . for those who do not know , that be the day of the year when the average woman essentially stop earn money — she have earn her full year ' s pay — due to the gender pay gap . it be a fantastic campaign that be organise by the Fawcett Society , whose representative I meet early this week . I be proud that this Government have introduce the Employment Rights Bill , which will support woman in work and help they to get a pay rise . I be sure that this issue would make a really good topic for a Backbench Business debate , and we be about to hear about such debate . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the Backbench Business for the Chamber next week . on Thursday 5 December , the business will be a debate on detain british national abroad , which be a topical subject , give the Prime Minister ' s announcement today , and a debate on improve public transport — those of we who be here for transport question will know why that be topical . I would be grateful if the Leader of the House could ensure that we get Thursday 12 December for Backbench Business , because we have a queue of debate that need to be hold in the Chamber . I give the House an early warning that the annual pre - Christmas Adjournment debate will take place on Thursday 19 December . in addition to the business in the Chamber that the Leader of the House announce , there will be a full three - hour debate on the fishing industry in Westminster Hall next week . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , there will be a debate on the domestic production of critical mineral on Tuesday 3 December , and a debate on pelvic mesh and the Cumberlege review on Thursday 5 December . on Sunday , I be proud to be at the Cenotaph , where more than 3 , 000 member of the Association of Jewish Ex - Servicemen and Women parade to commemorate those who give their life in the great war , world war two and subsequent conflict . I be grateful that Lord Coaker be there on behalf of the Government to lay a wreath , which demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to the movement . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Community Security Trust , the police and the security service on enable ajex to hold the parade and to commemorate all those who have give their life in the service of this country ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce those debate . it sound like they will attract a great deal of attention , and I know that many of the new Members will be really keen to stay here right to the very end for the Adjournment debate before the Christmas recess , which we be not look forward to at all , because we be desperate to be here as long as possible . I join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to the jewish community for all that they do for this country and other during the second world war and many other conflict since . I also pay tribute to ajex , CST , the police and other for keep the community safe and enable they to continue to pay their respect . in 2020 , Andrew Rowlands tragically lose his life in my constituency after get into the car of a driver who be under age , uninsured and unqualified . yet the driver be still able to purchase a vehicle without proof of identity , relevant insurance or experience . this event be truly heartbreaking for Andrew ' s family and friend , so can we have a debate in Government time on how we can prevent such accident and situation in future ? I express my deep sympathy to all those affect by that tragic case . the issue of people acquire and drive vehicle without insurance or a drive licence be often raise in this House . I will ensure that it be raise with the Secretary of State for Transport and that my hon . friend get a full reply . I be sure that this would make a good topic for a debate . I have be impress by the courtesy and assiduousness with which the Leader of the House send those of we who ask a business question in which we request a statement or debate a copy of the letter she send to the appropriate Department . she would impress I even more if she institute a requirement that the Ministers who receive those letter must respond , so that she can send we some feedback on why they do or do not intend to give we the debate or statement we have request . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind word . it be important to I that member get response from Ministers . I thank my fantastic civil service team for ensure that all those letter be send . I get reply to those letter from some Ministers , and those who do not reply be strongly note . I do follow up , and I have my own internal league table . it be important to I that member who raise issue , either with I or in the House , get a thorough response from Ministers . I shall certainly do that . community across the country be badly affect when local bank , such as the Bank of Scotland branch on Portobello High Street , close . such closure have a huge impact on those who be digitally exclude and on access to cash . community be tell that they can bank at the local post office , but we be find that post office , like the Waverley post office in my constituency , be close too . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time so that we can discuss these serious issue affect high street across the country ? my hon . friend raise an important issue that have be raise many time , particularly in the last couple of week , as we have hear about possible further post office closure . the Post Office contact I after last week ' s business question to make it clear that no decision have be make , but my hon . friend be absolutely right to continue raise these issue on behalf of his constituent . we need banking hub in our community , and the Post Office be a vital partner in deliver they . yesterday , Ford announce that it be pull 4 , 000 job across Europe , include 800 in the UK , mostly in Essex . on top of that , Nissan have announce big job cut in the UK , and worker at the New Holland tractor plant in Basildon be concerned about the impact of the family farm tax . with vehicle excise duty now go up on both internal combustion engine vehicle and electric vehicle , with the lack of demand and infrastructure for EVs and with the national insurance hit on UK business , can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of government policy on the UK automotive and vehicle manufacturing sector ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise the decision make by Ford in his constituency . as he know , this Europe - wide decision be take for commercial reason , but we have ask the company urgently to share its plan so that we can think about the impact on the UK . I do not agree with his analysis of this Government ' s policy in relation to manufacturing . we now have a comprehensive industrial strategy for the long term . such a plan occasionally appear under his government , but be more recently completely delete . for the first time in a long time , our industrial partner feel they have a long - term partnership with a Government who be on their side . this week , the Home Secretary speak of her shock on take office at how little the Home Office have be do under the previous Government to prevent violence against woman and girl . this week , a local woman ' s run group in my constituency , these girl can run , be partner with the rise Sun country park ' s park run for its annual takeover to mark White Ribbon Day . can we have a debate on how we challenge and change attitude to violence against woman and girl and domestic abuse ? my hon . friend raise an important issue , and next week ' s White Ribbon Day be an important opportunity for we to continue highlight the issue and violence that woman and girl face . she will know that this be a top priority not just for this Government but for the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary . over 10 year , we want to halve violence against woman and girl , which be a hugely ambitious mission that we be determined to meet . I add my condolence to the family and friend of Lord Prescott . I be occasionally in the same room as John Prescott when I be a councillor in the north , and he be indeed pugnacious and fun , even for those who happen to be a target of his remark . Dorothy House and many other charity in my constituency have contact I with concern about the increase in national insurance contribution . to cover the extra cost , they will need to reduce service or lay off staff . some charity may even go under . I join the call of my hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for an urgent statement from the Chancellor on how the third sector will be support so that it can continue to provide the same level of service . far to the reply I give a few moment ago , the hon . Lady will know that our tax regime for charity be the most generous anywhere in the world and be worth just over £ 6 billion in the last year . we hear what she and other be say , and we will continue to support charity . there will be Treasury question in early December , and she might want to raise the issue with the Chancellor then . almost one in five of my constituent work in the freight and logistic industry . these hard - work people deliver Christmas . on Tuesday , I launch a report by the Road Haulage Association and the all - party parliamentary group on freight and logistic that make shocking revelation on the frequency and seriousness of freight crime , include at crime hotspot such as Corley service in my North Warwickshire and Bedworth constituency . the true cost of freight crime exceed £ 1 billion , so can the Leader of the House facilitate a debate in Government time on tackle freight crime and keep our driver safe ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to our road haulage community . in recent time , we have really understand the value of their contribution to keep our country and our economy go . she be absolutely right to highlight the haulage crime raise with she by the Road Haulage Association . Home Office question be next week , and she might want to raise these important matter then . the Leader of the House will have surely see the thousand of hard - work farmer who come to whitehall on Tuesday to protest against the cruel family farm tax . while he be at COP29 , the Prime Minister try to defend his policy by quote BBC Verify , but BBC Verify have now delete its comment support the Government . likewise , the Telegraph have report this week that a Treasury source have tell it that no impact assessment will be publish on the family farm tax until just before the next Budget . will the Leader of the House get the Chancellor to come to the Dispatch Box , so that we can have an informed debate about the actual impact the family farm tax will have on the constituent of all member of the House , include her own Back Benchers who represent rural seat ? her colleague can then decide whether they stand with their party or with the farmer . we be absolutely clear and the figure be absolutely clear , because they be base on actual claim for agricultural property relief that have be make in recent year . those figure show that around three quarter of claim would be unaffected by the change we have make . do the conservative party accept the principle that 40 % of the total value of agricultural property relief come from ownership of the top 7 % of claim by land value ? do Conservative Members think that be a fair system ? be that fair to young farmer try to get into the industry ? do they support the additional £ 6 billion we have put into farming as a result of the Budget ? they can not support the funding go in if they do not support the measure need to raise that investment in the first place . [ Official Report , 4 December 2024 ; Vol . 758 , 4wc . ] Correction I echo and add my condolence to the family of the late Lord John Prescott : one man , two jag , three election win . while COP29 in faraway Baku may make environmental problem seem far away too , climate change be very real : rise tide mean the legendry beach runway on the isle of Barra now have limit use ; storm surge regularly cut off Baleshare from neighbour North Uist ; and crofter in my constituency now over - winter their stock on the mainland . will the Leader of the House find some Government time for a debate on how climate change affect our coastal community ? John Prescott be at the vanguard of the issue my hon . friend raise . it be thank to he that the Kyoto agreement be agree all those year ago . he be far - sight about the need for international collective agreement to tackle climate change , a legacy that this Government be proud to take forward at COP . my hon . friend be right to identity the issue climate change raise for his constituency , for which he be a great champion , and I be sure they would make a good topic for a debate . the Leader of the House will know that queen ' s Hospital be base in Romford . it serve the borough of Barking and Dagenham , Havering and Redbridge . I be proud to visit the hospital recently to see its amazing work around the clock with people who have suffer a stroke , who come from a huge radius , from the midland to the south - east . the one problem with our local hospital be that the A & E department be completely overstretch . People be wait on trollie , sometimes for 24 hour , which be unacceptable . will the Leader of the House arrange for the Minister responsible for hospital to visit queen ' s Hospital with I , and will she arrange for a debate in the House in Government time on that vital topic , which really affect my constituent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue face queen ' s Hospital in his constituency , particularly the A & E department . my husband be an A & E consultant , so I hear most evening about the crisis face our accident and emergency department . that crisis have increase exponentially over the past 14 year , I be sorry to say , and he and other doctor work on the frontline would contrast that starkly with the situation under the last Labour Government , which provide support to accident and emergency . I be sure the Health Secretary would be delighted to debate those issue with the hon . Gentleman and the opposition , because a & E need some serious investment , which be what this Government be all about . I rise to point out the recent change to the proxy voting scheme . as a member of the Modernisation Committee , can I ask for a debate in Government time about further change to the procedure and working practice of the House , so that we can create a more accessible and family - friendly culture ? I thank my hon . friend for all her fantastic work on the Modernisation Committee . she have be a really good member of the Committee ; in fact , all the member of the Committee , include those from Opposition party and the shadow Leader of the House , have be very good and there have be consensual work towards the endeavour of modernisation . the proxy voting change that I have just announce will be on the Order Paper for consideration by the House next week . I hope we can have many opportunity to discuss further issue in the come month . follow the Budget , Matthew Clover , from Salisbury Orthodontics , write to I . he say : " the recent Budget will hit dental care across this constituency . dental practice be small business … the cumulative change to National Insurance and the National Minimum Wage will add ten of thousand to the wage bill of a typical practice . " the Budget bring a huge increase in overhead , but offer nothing by way of support . when can we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care about what ameliorate intervention will be introduce to assist dentist who be try to do their good to fulfil their mandate on NHS dentistry , as well as other work ? the subject of dentistry be raise a lot in business question . the right hon . Gentleman may not like to hear it , but our woeful inheritance mean that the accessibility and provision of NHS dentist be poor in many community . we be committed to create an extra 800 , 000 dental appointment and we will work closely with the sector to transform NHS dental care in this country . as I have previously say , the Health Secretary will be come to the House to explain how he will use his budget to support social care , dentist and other who have be affect by some of the change in the Budget . the Leader of the House will remember that she bring the Labour party battle bus to Redditch . thankfully , she do not need to hit any of the voter when she meet they , but she will know that temper be now fray in Redditch because of the propose closure of our post office . the Redditch Standard and its editor , Tristan Harris , be lead the campaign to persuade the Post Office to change its mind . however , Post Office official be refuse to meet we , so will the Leader of the House suggest to they that , if there be no decision to be make on closure , they should be happy to meet local mps and campaign group ? my hon . friend should be stand steadfastly at the front of the campaign to save his local post office , because such local post office provide vital service for constituency such as Redditch . I know that Post Office official closely follow much of what I say in business question last week , so hopefully they will have hear what he say today . as I say last week , the Post Office be in need of serious cultural change and it have not be fit for purpose for some time . I do not see the case for close Crown post office as part of that change . the shocking arrest of Allison Pearson , the Telegraph journalist , have cause outrage , as the Leader of the House know , and as most recently express by she distinguished Back - Bench colleague , the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) . will the Leader of the House arrange for the Home Secretary to come to the House to address this attack on free speech , which be wide and deep than Allison Pearson ' s arrest ? the Director of Public Prosecutions have say that he " have no idea " what non - crime hate incident be and that he have " to look they up " in the light of her arrest , and yet 11 , 600 such " crime " have be record . do the Leader of the House understand that , far from be the antithesis of a civilised society , the right to alarm , to disturb and , yes , to offend be the essence of an open society ? if I do not alarm , disturb and offend every Maoist , Marxist , Bolshevik and belligerent Islamist , I would feel I have fail . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . the offence he talk about be actually introduce a couple of year ago under the previous Government — not by the current Government — by the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) who be now the shadow Home Secretary . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) be absolutely right that we have to consider the balance between free speech alongside protect people who suffer from the wrong end of abuse and misinformation and disinformation online which , as we see over the summer , can cause real damage in our community if leave unchecked . that balance be one I be sure the police and other be grapple with on a daily basis . I also offer my condolence to the family of Lord Prescott . he be a true inspiration and example to those of we from ordinary working - class background . follow on from the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , last week see the closure of the Royal Bank of Scotland in Bathgate , leave the town with one remain bank , the Bank of Scotland , which be due to close next June , along with the Bank of Scotland in Linlithgow . across the UK , high street and community have be lose their bank branch . will the Leader of the House make a statement on the step be take to ensure that community and business be not be leave behind ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for her word about John Prescott . many member of this House be here today because of the encouragement and inspiration they get from John Prescott . she raise an issue , which be raise regularly , about access to cash and the need for vital banking and post office service on our high street . the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be still in his place . I be sure that be colleague to come together on this matter , we could have a good and robust debate on the need for banking hub , which the Government be commit to roll out . a week on Saturday be Small Business Saturday . in my constituency , there be so many wonderful place to visit , whether in Stone , Great Wyrley , Penkridge , Brewood — I could list they all and , Madam Deputy Speaker , you would always be welcome to visit yourself . but so many business be incredibly worried . they have be contact I since the Budget not just about the increase in national insurance and not just about the cumulative impact of the change to employment right and the increase in the national minimum wage ; they be now also incredibly concerned about the scrapping of business inheritance tax relief , which will stop they be able to pass on their business to their child . may we have an urgent debate in Government time about the cumulative impact of those change on so many private business ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that point ahead of Small Business Saturday . I gently say to he , as he be a Minister in the previous Government , that the previous Government increase national insurance contribution not just on business but on worker as well . they do so at a time when inflation be at an almost record high of 9 % . it be funny that they do not seem to worry about that at the time . they also — I support they in do so — increase the minimum wage on many occasion in their time in office . I be proud that this Government be give a pay rise to some of the low pay in our society and economy . we be bring in change to business rate reform , which will support many of our small business on the high street . treasury question be come up , where I be sure he will want to raise business tax relief reform with Treasury Ministers . community be really suffer with the increase number of short - term let in the Cities of London and Westminster . local authority time be be use up to clean the mess , and the availability of genuinely affordable home be be erode . landlord be sometimes struggle to evict tenant who be illegally sub - let into the short - term let tenure . will the Leader of the House ask a Minister to update we on the Government ' s plan to tackle the rise in short - term let ? this affect not just the west end , but community across the country . we need the registration scheme to come forward quickly , alongside licensing and the ability of local authority to plan for short - term let . this be a really big issue in city centre constituency like mine , as well as in rural area . we be committed , as my hon . Friend say , to introduce the registration scheme for short - term let , and we will be remove the furnished holiday let tax incentive that short - term let owner have have recently . those measure will be introduce as soon as possible , and I will make sure the House be update . we have also announce a 2 % increase to the high rate of stamp duty on those type of property . I hope that , take together , they will reduce the blight of short - term let on many of our constituency . first of all , I thank the Leader of the House for mention ask she to stand Day . despite the progress that have be make on woman ' s representation in politic , it be shocking that we be still not where we should be in term of have a 50 : 50 Parliament and full representation at all level . it have already be mention this morning that Monday be White Ribbon Day , a crucial day for raise awareness of the terrible problem of male violence against woman and girl . the case of Harshita Brella , which come to light in the past week , highlight how vital that work be . West Mercia rape and Sexual Abuse Support Centre have be in touch with I this week to highlight the fact that fund in this area be still not sufficient and be not fairly distribute accord to need and population . although we have a Westminster Hall debate next week , do the Leader of the House not agree that this issue be so important that it need to be debate in Government time ? may we have that debate ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise White Ribbon Day next week and the 50 : 50 Parliament . other member have call powerfully for Parliament to become accredited as part of the White Ribbon campaign , something I be sure she will want to support . she be absolutely right that the funding for the many rape centre , shelter , charity and support centre available for woman flee domestic violence or have have the horror of be rape , be really woeful and poor . in the Budget , we increase some of the support go to those vital service . with the introduction of future legislation , there will be plenty of time to discuss these issue . a constant theme in my casework inbox be rogue private parking company and their intimidate behaviour . just this month , my constituency office have return over £ 200 - worth of fine to my constituent . will the Leader of the House advise I on the good possible way to put the issue on the record and get the Government to take action on this behaviour ? in the previous Parliament we have many debate on rogue private parking enforcement company . I be sure that the Backbench Business Committee would consider a debate . my hon . friend could also apply for an Adjournment debate . I think they would be well attend . may we have a debate in Government time on water recycling project ? the project at Havant Thicket be of great significance to my constituent and those of my hon . friend the Member for Havant ( Alan Mak ) , but it be also of national significance . the technology be novel to the UK and it be important that this House have the opportunity to debate aspect around safety , the environment and public confidence . the right hon . Gentleman raise what sound like a really important technology . we need to make a lot more of the circular economy . whether it be water or other aspect , that be a real priority for the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . he will be here for question soon , but I will certainly consider a future debate . as we have hear , post office closure threaten to cut off essential service , particularly in rural area such as mine , and could have a significant impact on South East Cornwall . will the Leader of the House indicate when we might expect space in Government time to debate the importance of post office , include the Liskeard branch in my constituency ? as be the case last week , the propose closure of post office be a massive point of concern for many member across the House . I encourage any Member whose constituency be affect by a propose closure of their Crown post office to take a leadership role in that campaign and raise it in the House . I will continue to do so , and be people to club together , I think there would be a lot of support for a debate on the future of our post office service . last week at my surgery in Barton - upon - Humber , two constituent , the parent of a young man who die suddenly from a cardiac arrest , point out that between 12 and 20 young people under 35 die in similar undiagnosed circumstance each week . screening would play a major part in deal with such tragic situation . can the Leader of the House find time for a debate in Government time when we can look at the whole screening programme for serious disease ? that be a shocking statistic that his constituent share with he about the effect of cardiac arrest on young people . he and they be absolutely right that screen and get a preventive health programme into our community be vital if we be to address some of those issue and make sure people do not die or suffer unnecessarily from those sort of disease . that be what this Government be commit to do . I want to associate myself with the condolence for Lord Prescott . he be a true giant of our movement . last week , more than 450 people from across Renfrewshire gather for the 20th annual ROCCO award , run by the Renfrewshire chamber of commerce to celebrate business . will my right hon . friend assure business in my community of the Government ' s support and will she join I in congratulate all the winner of this year ' s award , include Renfrewshire ' s favourite business , the Paisley Pie Co . , which reside in my constituency ? one of the great joy of my job be that I get to hear about all the great catering outlet in colleague ' constituency . I wish I could visit they all . the pie company that my hon . friend describe sound like a particularly good one , and I join she in congratulate it . this Government continue to support business such as those in her constituency and all those involve in the ROCCO award . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree that we will happily take some sample . in a week when we have see temperature plummet to below zero , leave pensioner in my constituency and across the country worry about heat their home , the Department for Work and Pensions have finally issue its impact assessment on the Government ' s disgraceful decision to scrap the winter fuel payment . can we have a statement on why the Chancellor take the decision to cut the winter fuel payment without know all the fact about pensioner fuel poverty ? the right hon . Lady will be aware that the publish impact assessment do not take into account all the mitigation that the Government have also put in place . we have see a 150 % increase in those claim pension credit support — her Government completely fail to do that — we have the £ 150 warm home discount , and I know from my own area that the £ 1 billion for the household support fund budget be now be pay directly to those on council tax support , which be just above the threshold for pension credit . I be really not clear whether the Conservative party support mean - testing ; it have a long history of do so , both on child benefit and in its 2017 manifesto , which call for mean - testing of the winter fuel payment . resident in Shefford be feed up with the dire pothole - ride state of Old Bridge Way . a public highway in all but legal reality , this unadopted road be now ownerless after the previous private owner transfer it to a new company that be promptly liquidate , thereby side - step any repair obligation . I understand that this may not be the most glamourous backdrop to suggest a constituency visit . instead , will the Leader of the House potentially back my campaign call on Central Bedfordshire council to act on the road and can we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Transport on how local authority can be support to adopt road in such crucial part of the public highway ? this be an important matter for my hon . friend ' s constituent , so he be absolutely right , as the diligent campaigner that he be , to continue to raise such issue in the House . I will make sure that the relevant Minister give he the substantive reply he need on the matter . the right hon . Lady will be aware that it be some considerable time since cannabis be legalised for medicinal use , but the number of people who have be able to obtain an NHS prescription for medical cannabis be minuscule . will she bring forward a debate in Government time that allow we to discuss the obstacle to people , particularly child with severe condition , obtain those prescription ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman have campaign on these issue for a long time , and he be right to raise they . I be sit next to another campaigner on medicinal cannabis use , my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Withington ( Jeff Smith ) . we know that this be a good treatment ; I shall certainly make sure that the relevant Minister give the right hon . Gentleman a full response on progress in make sure that it be available to child and those who desperately need it . this week , ship company Maersk announce that it will divert operation away from Felixstowe in my constituency and towards London Gateway . that come after year of complacency about invest in the right transport infrastructure around Suffolk Coastal and the eastern region , despite the port of Felixstowe be the busy and large in the UK . I write to the Secretary of State this week set out the urgent need to invest in transport infrastructure . can we have a debate in Government time on the future of rail and road investment in the UK ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue face Felixstowe in her constituency , and she be spot on when she mention link our port with our rail and road infrastructure , so that we can take advantage of our unique aspect as a trading , island nation . I will make sure that the Secretary of State respond to her letter forthwith . those who follow international violation of freedom of religion or belief will note the tragic death last week of Shahriar Rakeen , a 16 - year - old Bangladeshi who be brutally assault during extremist attack on Ahmadiyya Muslims on 5 August . during those attack , Rakeen be beat on the head with lethal weapon . in effort to save his life , he be treat in several hospital , but he pass away on 8 November . this heartbreaking case illustrate the importance of impress on the Government of Bangladesh their responsibility to provide effective protection and freedom of religious practice to Ahmadis and other persecute religious minority . will the Leader of the House join I in raise concern about such egregious violation of the freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to revisit this issue with counterpart in Bangladesh ? I be really sadden to hear about the death of Shahriar Rakeen in Bangladesh . the hon . Gentleman highlight a devastating case ; he highlight a different case every week . the british Government be support the interim Government in Bangladesh as they work to restore peace and order to the country . we will work closely with they to ensure a peaceful pathway to an inclusive and democratic future . I be glad to see that the hon . Gentleman have be so successful in get debate on these important matter , through the Backbench Business Committee and elsewhere . tomorrow night at 6 pm , hundred of people will take to the street in Northampton for our Reclaim the Night march . marche of this type take place across the country , and show the national support for this Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . will the Leader of the House assure I and campaigner that the Government will make available a suitable amount of Government time for debate the issue , and will continue to push hard to halve violence against woman and girl ? I remember as a young woman go on a number of Reclaim the Night marche , and it sadden I that although I be in my 50 , we still have to have such marche to highlight the issue . my hon . friend be absolutely right . end violence against woman and girl have be raise a number of time today . it be a massive priority for this Government and for the Prime Minister personally , and I will ensure that it be properly debate . tonight I be off to see China Crisis play at the Knowsley music festival in St Chad ' s church . it be a great initiative by Knowsley council . my consistency have a rich musical heritage . as well as bring people together , these festival support local talent , our economy and business . can we have a debate in Government time on way to support and grow these local creative festival and event ? Knowsley music festival sound like it will be a really good night out , and I be sure that my hon . friend will have a great evening . as she know , this Government continue to support the grassroots music fund , which help festival like the one that she mention . I be glad that she share that with the rest of we . I wish to associate myself with all the warm tribute pay to John Prescott today . he really be an inspiration to so many of we . a great many resident in my constituency rely on bus service , so I very much welcome this week ' s statement by the Secretary of State for Transport announce an additional £ 1 billion of bus funding . this new funding represent a great opportunity for our local authority to address long - stand gap in our bus network . in Rossendale and Darwen , these gap often occur where route cross local authority boundary . in the past , a lack of join - up thinking have mean that those route have be the first to be restrict or cut . in my constituency , that have seriously impact the resident of Edgeworth , Bacup and Whitworth . do my right hon . friend agree that to make the most of this new funding , we need transport authority to work together , think beyond their boundary , and recognise the wide benefit of connect people ? if necessary , can she give we time to debate this ? yet again , my hon . friend raise the important issue of transport connectivity in his constituency , which , as I well know , desperately need more funding . he will remember that over the 14 year of the previous Government , vital bus service all but disappear . this new funding be really welcome , but as he say , it need to come alongside reform , so that area can work together . we will imminently bring forward the bus reform Bill ; he might want to raise those issue in debate on it . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Hope4 charity in Rugby on receive the King ' s award for voluntary service ? I have see on numerous visit the incredible work that it do to end homelessness and poverty in Rugby , through its Hope Centre and the Rugby food bank . will she consider a debate in Government time to explore what far support the Government can give to volunteer group , and how it can enable people to volunteer more , give the positive effect on their mental health and on wide society ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate and thank the charity in his constituency for all the work that it do to end homelessness in Rugby . he point out the vital role that volunteer play in support our community , and also the reward and recognition that their volunteer endeavour bring they . I be sure that would make a really good topic for a debate . one of my constituent , Nikki Allan - Dan , have be attend Leeds United game for more than 60 year . Nikki be disabled and use one of the seven blue badge coach that Leeds provide to get to away game . however , Nikki tell I that no matter what the league , access for disabled fan across the country be shocking ; provision be not be make for they . she give I a few story at my surgery in Lofthouse . she tell I that she have be drop off half a mile from the stadium , and have have to make her way to the stadium through traffic in her wheelchair . she have also be tell that she have eight minute to leave the stadium and get to her coach , which be not even park in the correct place . give that Nikki tell I that these experience be typical for disabled fan up and down the country , please can we have a debate in Government time on meet the essential need of all disabled fan , so that they can access and enjoy the beautiful game ? in the interest of transparency , and as we be talk about league table early , I just want to put record that apart from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , my hon . friend be my top attender at business question . he be here every week , raise really important issue on behalf of his constituent . I be really appalled to hear of the treatment of the Leeds fan in his constituency . he will know that our Football Governance Bill be about put fan back at the heart of football , and ensure that club such as Leeds United make sure that disabled fan and every other kind of fan can access their game . Tuesday of this week be International Men ' s Day . in West Dunbartonshire , we have wonderful organisation such as Mentor Scotland and the Men ' s Shed do incredible work to help man across West Dunbartonshire who be struggle with their mental health . can the Leader of the House arrange for an urgent debate in Government time on the Government ' s work to well support man ' s mental health , and to encourage man to talk more openly about their mental health and wellbeing — a cause that the late Lord Prescott champion ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he will know that we have a debate on International Men ' s Day today , I think . [ interruption . ] yes , as soon as I finish speak . he be absolutely right that man ' s mental health be a serious issue face man and this country . I hope that the debate this afternoon will highlight some of those issue . we have be save the good till last . I call Paul Waugh . the Rochdale diversity award , now in their 12th year and run by the brilliant Kashmir Youth Project , be take place this weekend . will the Leader of the House congratulate all the nominee , who promote not just the rich diversity of our town , but its community cohesion ? my hon . friend be another very good attender at business question , always raise issue face Rochdale . I be of course please to join he in congratulate all the nominee for diversity award this year . he have put that on record , and I be sure that everyone will appreciate it . that bring business question to a conclusion . thank you to everybody who participate . we get close to 50 question answer today . Backbench Business Strategic Lawsuits against Public Participation before the debate begin , I remind the House of the application of the sub judice rule . it be extremely important that we respect the function of the court . it be also important that we be able to discuss important matter . in civil case , which be the subject of this debate , the rule apply only when arrangement for a hearing have be make ; for appeal , it apply when an application for leave to appeal have be make . I note that the motion refer to matter that do not reach the court . in such case , the sub judice rule do not apply . I remind member that they should not refer to case if they be aware that arrangement for a hearing have be make , as the sub judice rule do then apply . I beg to move , that this House recognise the impact of Strategic Lawsuits against Public Participation ( SLAPPs ) on the publication of story in the public interest ; acknowledge that most case of slapp do not reach the court , but be block or change at an early , unseen stage ; far recognise the importance of disclose suppress story under parliamentary privilege in order to highlight the broad impact of legal threat on free speech ; far acknowledge effort make to tackle slapp through the Economic Crime and Transparency Act 2023 ; and call on the Government to introduce comprehensive anti - slapp legislation that provide swift dismissal of such case , protect those target from prohibitive legal cost , and ensure that slapp filer face significant financial deterrent . I start by thank the Backbench Business Committee for speedily grant this important debate . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , who have long campaign on this issue and work closely with I to secure today ' s debate . I open this debate by outline the nature of the problem that we face in our legal system . slapp be consider an abuse of the legal process — an abuse in which the primary objective be to harass , intimidate , and financially and psychologically exhaust one ' s opponent via improper and costly legal intervention . slapp be just another name for lawfare , legal threat , intimidation or — simply put — bullying , and this form of bullying have be go on for year ; however , it be a tool that be available only to those with deep pocket . too often , wealthy individual , white - collar criminal , oligarch and kleptocrat use their financial might to muzzle free speech , launder their own reputation , and prevent journalist , whistleblower and campaigner from shine a light on corruption or foul play . those who seek to challenge these powerful individual face the prospect of bankruptcy if they choose to engage in legal proceeding . in that way , a select few can abuse our legal system to evade scrutiny and stop important information ever reach the public . my constituent in South Dorset certainly do not have the mean or motive to envisage engage in such bullying tactic , but it be my constituent , and the public at large , who pay the price . legal intimidation be routinely use to silence public participation . as a consequence , important investigation that be in the public interest be block from ever see the light of day . why be we allow our legal system to be hijack in that way ? these legal threat effectively stifle debate around a wide range of issue of significant public interest . they often significantly alter or even prevent the publication of information . in do so , I fear they shield misconduct and conceal wrongdoing in such a way that the powerful individual behind the legal threat , and those who be hide from scrutiny , can get away scot - free . this foul play be simply unacceptable . what matter here be not just the subject matter of the information that have be suppress but the manner in which journalist , campaigner and whistleblower have be silence . in most case , the story have be legally challenge long before they ever reach the court . through endless aggressive and intimidating legal letter , powerful actor be able to delay , and often halt entirely , the publication of a story . such bully tactic can even derail or shut down investigation at an early stage , and often result in our news outlet and journalist self - censor . in order that the House might well understand the current legal mess in which we find ourselves , I will use parliamentary privilege to describe a number of story that have become silent story . I will first talk about one slapp case of acute and endure public interest . professor Kristian Lasslett , a professor of criminology at Ulster University , write an article for opendemocracy raise concern about a construction project worth around half a billion dollar that be under development in Uzbekistan . his research probe exactly why the project be cost hundred of million of dollar , and he raise concern about the due diligence procedure of Government official , question link between the property developer and a family sanction for corruption . Lasslett ' s article focus on the link between the developer in question and a family know as the Guptas , who have be accuse of systemic corruption in South Africa — corruption so severe that member of the family be slap with sanction by both the United Kingdom and the United States . it be clear to I that the activity of the Guptas be of significant national and international public interest because of their position on those sanction list . Lasslett also uncover document that seem to show that the proposal document for the development be substantially plagiarise , raise concern about both the integrity of the project and the procurement check perform by the Uzbek Government . in a country that be widely criticise by reputable news outlet and civil society for widespread corruption , this story speak directly to the challenge that the uzbek people face in hold their elect official to account . importantly , the company ' s tie to the Gupta family raise question about the provenance of the huge sum of money use to fund the project . the finding may point to attempt by the Guptas , through their associate , to integrate their ill - get wealth into the uzbek economy . the public interest merit of the investigation be , in my view , undeniable , but the story be never publish . the information that it contain , link potential procurement corruption to the looting of billion of dollar from South Africa ' s state coffer , be effectively block . the uzbek people be deprive of information that speak directly to their Government ' s propriety in the award of enormous contract . the story be silence in a way that follow a pattern that I be sure be all too familiar to member present . Lasslett receive a legal letter from a boutique law firm on behalf of the developer . the lawyer ’ letter provide some meaningful factual information , but try to obfuscate important issue and outright deny any " relationship , business or otherwise " between the developer and the Gupta family , despite clear evidence to the contrary . now , opendemocracy routinely face legal threat , but follow the correspondence a decision be make that the benefit of publish the story would be outweigh by the time and financial expense of face down a deep - pocket litigant . the medium outlet decide against run the story , despite believe in its credibility and appreciate the public interest in ask question about a country mire in decade of corruption allegation at the high level . when even a highly respected academic with extensive expertise and a reputable news outlet decide to censor themselves follow legal intimidation , we can only wonder what other case of egregious misconduct have be uncover only then to remain hidden — but we need not wonder for too long . occasionally , public interest story threaten with legal action have still find their way into the public domain — for instance , the investigation into the tax arrangement of the former Chancellor Nadhim Zahawi , which later partly contribute to his dismissal . Dan Neidle , a tax lawyer , researcher and commentator , have be investigate the then Chancellor ' s financial tie to the data firm YouGov . there be concern about whether Zahawi be benefit from tax code that he have have a hand in shaping . in a lengthy and detailed thread on Twitter , set out his evidence , Neidle allege that Zahawi have avoid almost £ 4 million of capital gain tax . in response , Zahawi ' s lawyer send Neidle two letter , which not only ask he to retract his accusation by the end of the day but suggest that it would be a " serious matter " if he publish the legal letter . Neidle do not submit to those threat . instead , he set out his research finding , and the conclusion that he draw , in more detail . moreover , believe that the assertion of confidentiality be false , and that the letter be rather an attempt to intimidate he , Neidle choose to publish the letter , and draw the public ' s attention to the use of legal threat to silence research . after he go public , Neidle report hear from many other who have be intimidate in a similar way . he state : " silence be integral to the slapp strategy . a small - time blogger say something you don ' t like . you get your lawyer to write they a letter warn they off . the blogger delete their blog , and nobody have any idea what happen " . it be not just the odd former politician who use legal threat to avoid scrutiny . sadly , Britain have become a go - to destination for lawfare tactic . our court have become the playground of the super - wealthy . the UK be by far the most frequent country of origin for slapp . accord to the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition , around 31 % of lawfare case originate from here . we be almost as frequent a source as the European Union and the United States put together . London be an international hotspot , with lawfare tourist travel from far and wide to get in on the action . aside from the powerful individual and entity directly benefit from the protection afford by such threat , send legal letter be also a lucrative business for the lawyer who write they . the legal professional who knowingly engage in this abuse of the legal process be the product of a culture in which client choice be base on profit over professional ethic . the Solicitors Regulation Authority , which be task with hold the profession to high standard , be not equip with the right tool to hold lawyer to account . of the 71 slapp report to the SRA over the past two year , 23 case be close with no further action , and of the 48 remain live , only two be ever refer to a disciplinary tribunal . what be more , the financial penalty at the regulator ' s disposal fail to match the deep pocket of the individual and law firm that engage in these tactic . the SRA have a paltry fine power of just £ 25 , 000 for traditional law firm , which pale in comparison with the firm ’ resource . in effect , the fine be likely price in by the offend law firm . at present , we simply do not have a proper deterrent , or the ability to impose real financial penalty on the lawyer and firm that knowingly engage in legal intimidation . our legal framework also fail the minority of lawfare case that eventually make it to the court , mean that those legal case can not be throw out by a judge at an early stage . I welcome the measure enact by the recent Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 that ensure that case of legal intimidation that relate to economic crime can be tackle . however , as we have hear in past debate in both Houses , those measure do not go far enough . we urgently need to update our legal framework to ensure that all slapp case that reach the court can be throw out at an early stage if a judge deem it appropriate . only then can we level the play field and ensure that those with deep pocket be fairly scrutinise , just like everyone else . I pay tribute to the former hon . member for Caerphilly , who bring forward a private Member ' s Bill that seek to fill this gap in our legal framework . his Bill be due to come back to the House when the general election be call , so it sadly go no far . we can re - examine much of that Bill as we seek to tackle the lawfare scandal engulf our country . we urgently need to take seriously the risk that legal threat pose to the health of our public debate . I know the Government will listen to the powerful story bring to light today and will seek to answer our concern about the inadequacy of our regulatory and legislative framework . I look forward to hear from the Government exactly how we can challenge the scourge of lawfare once and for all . we be surround by silent story — it be high time they be hear . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for obtain the debate , which be on an important subject . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on media freedom , and be delighted to see the vice - chair , the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , attend the debate . the UK have a proud record of defend and promote media freedom in this country and across the world . in 2019 , the UK establish the global Media Freedom Coalition , which now have 51 member . during my time of involvement in the medium , which go back quite a long way , I always pay careful attention to the annual publication of the world press freedom index . I be pleased that the UK ' s ranking have rise substantially in recent year . we now stand at no . 23 — still some way to go , but nevertheless an improvement . the reason we have improve be that a lot of other country have get considerably bad , so we have rise as a result of their demotion . the hon . member for South Dorset be right that the phenomenon of slapp have be a blot on our record for a considerable time . I chair the Culture , Media and Sport Committee for 10 year . in 2009 , we carry out an inquiry into press standard , privacy and libel . in particular , we see the phenomenon of libel tourism , which , to some extent , continue to this day . we hear about , for instance , the case of Dr Rachel Ehrenfeld , a US academic who have write the book " funding evil : how Terrorism be finance and how to stop it " . the book appear in the United States ; it have no british edition . twenty - three copy be obtain in the United Kingdom by order over the internet . despite that , a saudi businessman name in the book take legal action against Dr Ehrenfeld in the UK court . he be award considerable damage on the basis that Dr Ehrenfeld do not defend the action in a court that she see as have no jurisdiction over the matter . that lead to the introduction of the Libel Terrorism Protection Act 2008 by the New York state legislature , which basically say that resident of New York do not have to abide by foreign court ' judgment in this particular area . since that time , the situation have much improve and , of course , the Defamation Act 2013 seek to address the specific issue of libel tourism and raise the bar for claimant in libel case . nevertheless , there have still be a chilling effect . we also hear from the author Tom Bower , who be subject to a legal action over a very small reference to Richard Desmond in his book about Conrad Black . Mr Desmond lose the action , but be prepared to pay a huge amount to bring it about . certainly , it be Mr Bower ' s view that he do so to demonstrate that he be willing to spend a large amount even on a small and relatively minor accusation . the result be that Mr Bower ' s plan to write a book about Mr Desmond do not proceed because the publisher be too afraid of potential legal action . as the hon . member for South Dorset recognise , further measure since the Defamation Act 2013 have be introduce , primarily through the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , which focus specifically on the issue of slapp around economic crime or allegation . when I return to the position of Minister responsible for the medium — in my second incarnation — we be nevertheless aware that it remain a problem . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have establish the National Committee for the Safety of Journalists , which I hope be still in existence . the committee be originally set up to look at the physical threat to journalist and attempt to intimidate they through harassment — sometimes online but occasionally through physical aggression — and a lot of work be do on it . we then agree that the issue of slapp represent an attempt to prevent media freedom and to close down legitimate public interest journalism , so the committee extend its work to cover slapp . I remember that we hear from Catherine Belton , the author of " Putin ' s People " , and Tom Burgis , who write " Kleptopia " , both of which reveal corruption , in one case on the part of an ally of President Putin in Russia and , in the other , on the part of some individual in Kazakhstan . both be subject to legal action against they personally as well as against their publisher . perhaps the most appalling example , which be debate in this House at length , be the discovery that Yevgeny Prigozhin , the founder and leader of the Wagner Group , have be allow to circumvent the sanction place on he to bring a legal action against the director of Bellingcat , who have rightly identify he as the leader of the Wagner Group . that be a scandal , and I be glad to say that the decision be subsequently reverse . again , it be interesting that somebody as notorious as that have choose to bring an action in the UK . the hon . member for South Dorset suggest that it be a matter of shame that the UK be see as the centre for such action , and I share his concern to some extent . it be also a tribute to the strength and independence of the UK judicial system , which be admire around the world . the reason why so many people wish to pursue action in the UK court be normally that they have great confidence in UK court than those in many other place . it be right that we should take action where the motivation behind those action be more to do with prevent legitimate inquiry . as I say , the DCMS National Committee for the Safety of Journalists establish a slapp taskforce in 2023 — I think that be in my third incarnation in government with responsibility for the medium . the taskforce bring together Departments , such as DCMS and the Ministry of Justice , representative of campaign organisation , such as reporter without Borders and Index on Censorship , and publisher and journalist , include the News Media Association and the National Union of Journalists . the taskforce be chair by Janis Makarewich - Hall , the excellent DCMS official . its initial meeting be attend by the then Secretary of State Lucy Frazer , and I attend as many meeting as I could . that lead to a lot of work on try to understand the prevalence of slapp , produce guidance for journalist , examine the legal ethic and what more might be do — both by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Bar Standards Board — to ensure that law firm do not take on case for which there be no real justification other than an attempt to shut down journalism , and raise awareness . four meeting of that taskforce take place — I do not know whether it still exist , but I very much hope that it do . I would be interested to hear what work have continue under this government , as a lot be do under the last . as the hon . member for South Dorset rightly recognise , Wayne David introduce a Bill that be prepare in government to tackle the issue of slapp , and it be amend during its passage to strengthen it . it reach the House of Lords but it do not reach the statute book because of the general election . a lot of work have be do , and I hope that we can build on and learn from it . the Bureau of Investigative Journalism have send a number of case as example of slapp — the hon . Gentleman quote one of they . I do not want to use privilege to cite individual case , but there be concern that it be happen in a number of area , and we need to address it through legislative change . at the same time , it be important to recognise that individual have a right to defend themselves against untrue and unfounded accusation . that be as much a fundamental part of liberty as freedom of speech . not all case claim to be slapp be slapp , in my view — particularly those in which the claimant have subsequently prove successful in the action that they have bring in the court . that almost disprove the claim that it be a slapp to begin with , so we do need to be careful . I have also have correspondence from the Society of Media Lawyers , which suggest that there be a lack of empirical evidence and that campaigner ignore exist legal and regulatory tool . it also suggest that this be an area that the Law Commission should perhaps review , but I have a concern that such a review be a way of push the matter into very long grass and would unnecessarily delay measure on which a great deal of work have already be do . rather than do that , I urge the Government to consider the work do in DCMS and the Ministry of Justice , and in particular the debate that take place during the Committee stage of Wayne David ' s private Member ' s Bill , and to introduce legislation to deal with the chilling of medium freedom in the UK , which I absolutely recognise be a legitimate concern . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for his passionate and eloquent speech , and for secure the debate . strategic lawsuit against public participation , or slapp , be essentially a misuse of the legal system through threaten claim that be bring to stifle lawful scrutiny and publication . they have be use to silence public participation by and suppress information from activist , environmental campaigner , non - governmental organisation , whistleblower , victim of sexual assault and even people just post negative product review online . the list of journalist who have face slapp simply for report in the public interest grow by the day . of course , receive a slapp cause immense mental and financial concern and distress . it be clear that most people target by slapp can not afford the legal cost of defend the claim against they . without effective anti - slapp legislation , everyone in the UK remain at risk if they choose to speak out on matter of public interest . that be why have an effective anti - slapp regime in the UK be so important . failure to have one essentially undermine democracy . it be certainly welcome that the Government be push for great transparency in public life through enhanced reporting , update to the ministerial code and change to Government contract award , but focus solely on the public sector be not enough . the consequence of focus only on the public sector could be chill : at one end of the spectrum , the public may be deny knowledge about issue of public interest , and at the other end , the exposure of corruption and other form of wrongdoing in many area will be limit . that would continue to leave the most powerful with the ability to manipulate the legal system to conceal wrongdoing across the UK . I agree with what other have say about the need for anti - slapp law to balance access to justice for those who have a right to defend themselves , but in reality , slapp victim — journalist , campaigner and abuse survivor — often lack the resource to defend themselves against aggressive legal tactic design to intimidate they and suppress the publication of their information . that be why a comprehensive anti - slapp Bill — which would balance access to justice for those who have a right to defend themselves against the pernicious use of slapp — would help to ensure that justice be accessible to all , not just the wealthy . it be important to stress that the EU pass anti - slapp directive early this year . I have a few question that the Minister can perhaps answer in her closing speech . I know that she welcome a lot of what have be say today . the Justice Minister in the Lords say that the Government be undertake a review of slapp policy . what be the parameter of that review , and how can parliamentarian and civil society engage with it ? do the Government recognise that , although claimant lawyer of course have expertise that be useful to this debate , we should be sceptical about let those who have a direct financial interest , and who deny the very existence of slapp , have such a substantial influence on policy - making ? do the Government agree that we will have a hope of stamp out slapp only with a comprehensive and robust anti - slapp Bill , and be there a realistic prospect of one appear in the next king ' s Speech or of another legislative vehicle be use in this Parliament ? be it not the case that , far from restrict access to justice , anti - slapp legislation will ensure that justice be accessible to all , not just to a privileged few who seek to manipulate the UK legal system ? slapp essentially undermine the very nature of the UK legal system and the freedom of speech and expression that our country be so proud of . I hope that the Minister will address my concern and those of colleague in close the debate . in an ideal world , there would be a limitless supply of lawyer who would provide their service to victim and defendant alike , free of charge . then , the issue of slapp could never arise . we be not talk here about try to restrict the right of individual to seek the protection of a court and clear their name of defamatory claim about they . if that be what we be seek , I would be something of a hypocrite , because 30 year ago , I have to pursue such a libel action against an impecunious magazine that think it could get away with say anything about public figure , no matter how baseless , because it have no asset , so if someone pursue a libel action against it and win , they could never recover the ten of thousand of pound in cost . that be when the boot be on the other foot : a person who have no asset therefore use the cost of lawyer against the person they wish to defame . however , what have happen in more recent time , particularly since the demise of that magazine , because there be other way of deal with it , be precisely what the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) say in his excellent introduction be an abuse of the legal process — and in particular of the huge cost that apply to hire lawyer to defend oneself — by what I believe he describe as a very small number of very rich people . the solution to this type of problem be therefore for the court to be able to deal with it at such an early stage that , even though some cost will be unavoidable , the huge threat of unbearable cost will be remove , because a worthless libel claim against an investigative reporter whose story be well found will be throw out beforethe vast bulk of the expense can be incur . some hon . member who be here in the previous Parliament may remember that we have a brief debate on 20 January 2022 deal with the question of lawfare . I make a couple of intervention on behalf of a former Member of the House , Charlotte Leslie , who face what be certainly a slapp as a result of she not even have publish anything , but have privately contact a number of people , include I , give my then position as the Chair of a Committee that she regard as relevant to her concern . she write to we to try to do due diligence on an individual who propose get involve and invest money in an organisation by which she be employ . fortunately , in the end , the case fail utterly in court , but only after she have be put through a nightmarish ordeal . I pay tribute to her resilience in come through that ordeal . we be of course particularly concerned about vulnerable individual , but sometimes even large organisation can be subject to the slapp technique . if hon . member look on the internet , they will see that on 12 January this year — on the BBC website , no less — a story head , " Post Office lie and threaten BBC over Horizon whistleblow " begin : " the BBC can reveal that in the period lead up to the broadcast of Trouble at the Post Office , the 2015 Panorama programme feature the whistleblow testimony : expert interview by the BBC be send intimidate letter by Post Office lawyer about their participation in the programme Senior Post Office manager brief the BBC that neither their staff nor Fujitsu — the company which build and maintain the Horizon system — could remotely access sub - postmaster ' account , even though Post Office director have be warn four year early that such remote access be possible lawyer for the Post Office send letter threaten to sue Panorama and the company ' s public relation boss Mark Davies escalate complaint to ever more senior BBC manager " . the article also state : " the Post Office ' s false claim do not stop the programme , but they do cause the BBC to delay the broadcast by several week . " as we all know , the BBC have the resource to resist a major legal action have one ensue . only three day early than that article on the scandal , there be an article on 9 January 2024 on the website of the Press Gazette , which be the industry - representative body . it comment on the way in which the ITV drama about the Post Office scandal have bring to a wide audience the shocking story of the hundred of postmaster who be wrongly prosecute and , indeed , the four who commit suicide as a result . the article be head , " attention to Post Office Horizon IT scandal follow 14 year of dogged journalism " . it rightly pay tribute to the freelance reporter Nick Wallis , who write the famous book " the Great Post Office Scandal " , and to two other reporter , Rebecca Thomson and Karl Flinders , who both write numerous article for a much small enterprise , a journal call Computer Weekly . in fact , it can be say that the first investigation into Horizon , which be publish in 2009 , be carry out by Computer Weekly after a year - long investigation by Rebecca Thomson . the investigation editor of Computer Weekly , Bill Goodwin , be quote as say that the magazine persist despite " bullying letter " from the Post Office demand to know its source . he say : " we ignore they . reaction be mute when the story first appear but it initiate a slow - burn chain of event that lead to the uncovering of a scandal of enormous proportion . " I be very grateful to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism , which have already be mention in this debate , for provide a little more detail on what Computer Weekly face . it have supply I with some further embellishment , as it be , of what I have already recount . it tell I that the general counsel for the Post Office send threaten legal letter to Computer Weekly and that the trade magazine ' s brave campaign , which continue regardless of the threat , often leave it as a lone voice , with other outlet seemingly very reluctant to pick up on the important reporting with which it persist . one legal letter from 2015 share with the Bureau of Investigative Journalism threaten Computer Weekly over an article that say the Post Office close a working group responsible for look into claim against the Horizon software . the general counsel claim that the article include a " significant number of inaccuracy " and " damaging error " and argue that the reporter have act improperly , state : " we be most concerned that Computer Weekly choose to publish this highly damaging article without take the proper step to verify the information . " the letter acknowledge that Computer Weekly have amend its article to include Post Office comment , yet it persist with the threat : " you should not underestimate the seriousness with which the Post Office view the publication of such damaging and inaccurate allegation . the step take by you in response to this letter may well influence Post Office ' s decision as to any further step it may take to protect its reputation . " it have now emerge that the Post Office take multiple aggressive action to shut down the story about its failure over prosecution that be spark by the faulty Horizon software . the scandal only really spread into the mainstream press after the breakthrough moment in 2019 when Alan Bates and 554 litigant take a civil case against the Post Office to the High Court , which they win a couple of year later . even then , as be say early , the full story be not widely know until the 2024 ITV drama be broadcast . in response to what the Bureau of Investigative Journalism state , the Post Office now sing a welcome different tune . it say that the organisation be commit to support the ongoing public inquiry and that it be fair and right for the Post Office to be hold to account by journalist . it say : " the approach of the Post Office today regard communication be base on the knowledge that we must apologise sincerely , learn from the past , be transparent with stakeholder , and support justice and redress for those who have be impact . " it also say that it be actively explore additional way to strengthen transparency . that be all well and good , after the Post Office fight so hard to cover up what have happen and close down the story of the scandal , but I will close as I begin by say that any slapp legislation be not mean to give anybody carte blanche to say anything they like on the basis of no evidence — to smear , belittle or denigrate people simply because they wish to target they for whatever reason . the purpose of such legislation be to stop people who know perfectly well that the accusation against they be well found , as the Post Office know , but who nevertheless persist in abuse the legal system because of the horrendous threat of cost that will drive people to bankruptcy or to surrender in the face of possible bankruptcy before the issue ever get resolve in court . central to any slapp legislation must be a simplification process that ensure that a worthless case — a case with no evidence ; a case that be truly a slapp — be throw out at the early possible opportunity before unbearable cost be incur . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this debate . it be good to see some newly elect member take up this issue — I include in that my neighbour and hon . friend , the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) — as well as some of those who have be around for a while and try to champion it . I be sure the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) will not mind my describe they in that way . we be miss the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) today , but I pay tribute to all the work they have do on this issue over many year . I be not go to speak for very long , because I be not go to say anything that I have not say before . I think I reply for the Opposition in the January 2022 debate that the right hon . member for New Forest East refer to , and the Justice Select Committee hold an evidence session in May of that year under its previous Chair , Sir Bob Neill KC . the transcript of that session be very interesting to read , but what strike I be how little have actually be achieve , even though the issue have be debate many time . it be not true that nothing have be achieve since then , however . as have already be mention , the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 include some measure to tackle slapp , but relate specifically to economic crime ; I think there be general recognition that that do not go far . we have also hear about the Bill introduce by Sir Wayne David , which sadly do not become law because of the general election . even that Bill take quite a lot of negotiation in order to get any meaningful provision into it , against some resistance from the previous Government . that be not a terribly good record over the past few year , give the importance that many member attach to this issue , so I will be interested to hear what the Minister say about this Government ' s future legislative intent when she reply to today ' s debate . the Justice Committee may well want to return to this issue at some point , but for today ' s purpose , I be speak on my own behalf and repeat argument that have be around for some time . there be many reason to be concerned about slapp . one of they be highlight in the long title of today ' s debate — freedom of speech — but as have already be mention , slapp can also have a pernicious effect on the justice system , to which I particularly want to speak . slapp be now the accepted terminology , but they be previously call lawfare . that term be very appropriate , because it be continuation of litigation by inappropriate mean . it be clearly bad for victim , but it be also bad for the justice system . it allow bad actor to take action in the court , and although we have a very robust judiciary in this country who be quite capable of make their view feel , without recognition of slapp in law , under the rule of court and give the clearly state aim of all party , particularly the Government , slapp be go to continue . slapp be typically bring by people of unlimited resource to deter publication . that be why , as the Bureau of Investigative Journalism and other have point out , most slapp never reach the litigation stage . they be intend to have a chilling effect , not only on the specific , immediate target but on the wide press and medium , particularly those who do not have deep pocket . they can tie individual journalist and publication in knot for year and can subject they to a huge amount of stress and risk . we can think of example go back to McLibel , what happen to Tom Burgis and to Catherine Belton , or indeed — as the right hon . member for New Forest East mention — the appalling way that Charlotte Leslie be treat . slapp be use to protect people such as Mohammed al - Fayed who wilfully and knowingly use the court system to hide their misdeed . it be undoubtedly true that such people introduce vexatious litigation into the court , distort their function and operation and misdirect the purpose of justice . if member think I be exaggerate , whether or not it be a slapp in the classic definition , the action take by ENRC against the Serious Fraud Office — which effectively have turn the hunter into the hunted — be an example of how even the institution of state can become the victim of slapp . this be a very insidious trend within litigation . it may not be widespread , but it have a hidden hinterland , and despite the good effort of the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition , the Bureau of Investigative Journalism — which I have mention — and Sir Wayne David in his Bill , we now really need the Government to take up this cause . there be one other issue I want to deal with — one that I always mention , and that will not find favour with some member of this House . if we be serious about deal with attempt to use financial strong - arm to prevent justice take its course , we also have to think about our attitude to the Leveson reform . the aim of Leveson be to protect small publisher against litigant with deep pocket , but also individual citizen who have be misrepresent by large medium organisation and be unable to take action , or be discourage from do so . the victim of intrusion and vilification , particularly by the tabloid , also deserve the protection of the law . Leveson provide a solution through low - cost arbitration that would be fair for both side — that protect publisher in the same way as individual . it be not a form of state regulation , but a method of independent and fair determination of issue that restore equality of arm . if it be right for we to legislate on slapp and stop the pernicious influence of the oligarch of the steppe , we should also prevent the misuse of the court by the oligarch of Fleet Street . I begin by declare an interest , in that I be an unpaid trustee of the Index on Censorship and write a weekly column for the Daily Telegraph . we be all here for this debate because we share a belief that free speech be the bedrock on which free society be build . the right to voice one ' s conscience , criticise those in position of power , share inconvenient truth and promote new knowledge allow we to protect and enjoy the other freedom that define our way of life . however , we find ourselves in a crisis of free speech in this country , and this debate be an opportune moment to consider just one part of that crisis by examine how the wealthy can use and abuse the court system through the slapp process , which many hon . member have already describe . I be no libertarian , and all good conservative know that liberty can not endure without order . that be why I be not a free speech absolutist . there must always be a balance in the law to ensure that free speech do not allow defamation or the incitement of violence , to name two example . however , with slapp the law have definitely become unbalanced , create a chilling effect on free speech that give a powerful advantage to the wealthy and create lucrative opportunity for claimant lawyer . this be not just a serious problem for journalist and news organisation . slapp have be deploy by those with deep pocket against company employee , non - governmental organisation , campaign activist , survivor of abuse and people from many walk of life . London continue to be know as a global libel hotspot . nearly a quarter of cross - border slapp case between 2010 and 2021 be in the UK , and a record number of 14 slapp case be file in England and Wales in 2021 . the lack of comprehensive datum on slapp case — many be settle out of court , so this can be difficult to measure — have be exploit by claimant lawyer , who argue that there be no such problem . however , the evidence we have , and we have hear such evidence from member on both side of the House , be incredibly strong . slapp have be use to shut down research publication and investigation before they can even see the light of day . there be journalist who have be able to expose the use of slapp cover high profile case , sometimes include powerful actor . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) refer to the russian businessman who attempt to sue Tom Burgis over the publication of his book , " Kleptopia : how dirty Money be conquer the World " . HarperCollins help to shine a light on slapp , but the issue have not go away since then . many other in this debate have share similar story about the use of lawfare to control what can and can not be say in public . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) raise the case involve a slapp against Charlotte Leslie , the former Member for Bristol North West , deploy by Mohamed Amersi . after carry out due diligence on Mr Amersi and share her finding with senior member of the Conservative Middle East Council , Charlotte be subject to allegation regard data protection in 2021 and defamation in 2022 . she have serious and legitimate concern about Mr Amersi take over cmec , and those concern be suppress by his abuse of the court system . last year , after a great deal of time and money , and no little stress for Charlotte and her family , the Court rule that " no serious harm " have be do to Mr Amersi ' s reputation and that both allegation be unnecessary , and they be strike down . however , it be only the good fortune that cmec have insurance that allow Charlotte to continue that fight her case , against a wealthy businessman intent on use his power to damage she and to take over her institution , that she be able to win . we should remember the consequence have Mr Amersi succeed in control an important institution in our politic that seek to shape the foreign policy of this country . Most victim of slapp be not able to resist as Charlotte do because they be so often outmatch by people with superior financial and legal resource . news organisation can sometimes fight their own corner , but local and regional medium do not have the same option . this be very worrying and concern for the health and independence of the press at all level . the status quo also benefit claimant lawyer , who collect enormous fee for litigate on behalf of the powerful . as a result , journalist , news organisation and other too often no long publish information that could serve the public interest and hold the powerful to account . slapp turn the principle of innocent until prove guilty on its head , and the exist system give add leverage to people who already enjoy the advantage of their wealth and knowledge of how good to exploit the court system . this power imbalance make it very important for we to know the true cost to the taxpayer of take these case through the court system . a public service should not be manipulate by the powerful to serve their own interest . the UK be not alone in grapple with the issue of slapp . as have be note , the European Union have introduce its own anti - slapp directive that , though not perfect , do show a clear change in direction . the Council of Europe , of which the UK be a member , have also call for more comprehensive anti - slapp legislation at the national level . its report , to which the previous Government contribute , explicitly state that slapp " impede individual right to expression whilst undermine the free exchange of idea and information essential in a pluralistic society . " in Canada , British Columbia and Ontario have successfully implement and test anti - slapp legislation . it be with good reason that the UK be know for its fair and impartial judiciary , free speech protection , free medium and democratic governance — one of our country ' s great contribution to civilisation — but that should not cause we to be in any way complacent . we must remain vigilant in the defence of our freedom . the previous Government make some welcome progress in this area . as the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) say , anti - slapp measure be enshrine in law under the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 . while that legislation be narrow in scope and could have be tough , it still recognise that we have a problem with slapp , and we should continue this conversation and find a comprehensive solution . as have also be say , towards the end of the last Parliament , Sir Wayne David , with Government support , introduce a private member ' s Bill , which would have give the House an opportunity to discuss practical legislation . the Ministry of Justice launch non - legislative initiative on training and guidance to help people to fight slapp in the court , and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport establish a slapps taskforce . this be a challenge that command the attention and support of member across the political spectrum , and this debate allow we all to put our party colour to one side and to speak up for a vital freedom and for the common good . I be pleased to she the Prime Minister ' s comment in October , when he recognise that this be a problem . he say that slapp be use " to intimidate journalist away from their pursuit of the public interest . " he also say : " such behaviour be intolerable " . I agree with those comment . the Prime Minister promise to act , and it would be welcome , when the Minister speak , if she confirm when proposal will be put before the House . I note that there be no mention of press freedom in the King ' s Speech , and the MOJ and DCMS initiative have be put on hold . I know they be a new government and I be not try to make a party political attack , but it would be good to know the timing of such initiative , because it would be a shame to see the progress make during the last Parliament undo . I join other member from different party in call for a comprehensive anti - SLAPPs Bill . I would like to see the parameter for the review of current policy and Ministers start to work on primary legislation as soon as possible . equal access to justice and free speech must be the key principle underpin the Government ' s approach . the long we delay , the more life will be ruin , and we will continue to see free and open debate limit in the interest of the wealthy and at the expense of the public . slapp will just feed into a broad intimidatory culture that deploy hacking , surveillance , smear , bullying and threat to silence critic during an age already grapple with problem of misinformation and disinformation . I say at the start of my speech that slapp be just one part of a wide crisis of free speech in the UK and across the world . I imagine we all have story of our own . I experience it myself after I write a column in the Daily Telegraph follow the murder of Sir David Amess . there be a concerted attempt by some organisation , which I understand have islamist link , to have I throw off the organise committee of the Commonwealth game that take place in Birmingham in 2022 . newspaper routinely receive aggressive letter from firm such as Carter - Ruck when they write about some of the same organisation with islamist and extremist connection . a censorious culture drive by social medium and increasingly ideological dogma be start to police our language . we have see public institution bent to obey the whim of online activist . the late figure show that police force record as many as almost 12 , 000 non - crime hate incident in the year to June 2024 . it have be shocking to hear report of police officer knock on the door of journalist to investigate the language they have use in tweet , such as in the case of Allison Pearson . essex police — the force that turn up on her doorstep — have fail to investigate or arrest people who be undoubtedly use language that should be investigate for incitement to violence , such as Shaykh Shams Ad - Duha Muhammad , who call for Allah to " destroy the Zionists " and to " grant we victory over the disbelieve people " . I think we know whom he mean by the Zionists . the Metropolitan police have be unwilling to arrest protester who have chant for jihad and have intimate british Jews on the street of London over the last year or so . all this occur while free speech be under sustained assault by authoritarian regime in other country . just two day ago , a Hong Kong court use the national security law to convict pro - democracy activist for subversion . the Women , Life , Freedom movement in Iran have be brutally suppress through threat , beating , imprisonment and execution . Russia have continue its crackdown on free speech , arrest US journalist Evan Gershkovich on bogus espionage charge . we hear many other such example at the freedom of expression award last night organise by Index on Censorship . these authoritarian regime use propaganda and medium manipulation to hide their action , but we must not turn a blind eye . it be critical that we do not allow free speech to be weaken in our country . as I say at the start of my contribution , I be not a free speech absolutist , and I doubt many member here today really be either . as with any freedom , there must be limit to ensure that the common good and public safety be serve , but we be now at risk of destroy the foundation upon which all our freedom rest . from slapp to non - crime hate incident , a bureaucratic legal quagmire threaten to consume our freedom , to the detriment of our national stability and cohesion . I will always stand with colleague in this House to defend the right to free speech , and I hope the Government will work constructively with member of all party in this House to resolve the broad crisis in our political culture . democratic and press freedom be fundamental to our right . that be why many of we have be campaign on change the law to provide meaningful protection against slapp , and I welcome the opportunity the debate offer in that regard . as the re - elect chair of the all - party group on domestic violence and abuse , I want to particularly raise the need to tackle the ability of abuser to weaponise litigation . I be oblige to highlight a personal interest give my own experience of lawfare be use against myself . the House will be aware that I be completely clear and vindicate in Snaresbrook Crown court after what I and many in my constituency and around the UK view as vexatious litigation pursue with the purpose of shut down my public participation as a democratically elect Member of Parliament and as a survivor of domestic abuse . in the end , the local council , where my ex - husband be a councillor at the time , spend more money try to pursue I in the court than the amount it allege it be try to recoup . I want to place on record that I have never receive any recognition , never mind an apology , from the institution and people who do this to I . still to this day , I be seek answer so that something like this can not ever happen again , because the use of lawfare by abuser to pursue a current or ex - partner be increasingly come to light . the most common proceeding we see be bring by those accuse of sexual and / or domestic violence launch vexatious case in relation to defamation , libel , misuse of private information , harassment , and press injunction . however , they can also include the family court , the criminal justice system and other area of law . the purpose of these proceeding be to silence , intimidate , discredit and further disempower survivor . likewise , there be no doubt in my mind that there be clearly a bias in and pressure on medium outlet when report on issue relate to domestic abuse and violence against woman . to explain what I mean , I need to update the House on the extraordinary situation I continue to face . after I survive a full term as a Member of Parliament face onslaught after onslaught , my ex - husband be finally expel from the Labour party for his treatment of I at the beginning of this year . however , that do not stop the relentless attempt to unjustly remove I as an MP by a clique of his associate still in the Labour party . have survive this , I then have the shock that he then stand against I at the general election as an independent with the stated aim of expose " who I really be " and get even with I . on election day itself , my security situation be so serious that I be literally bundle away from polling station due to the risk . I remember the car he be in drive well over the speed limit past the polling station I be at , and my security support take it on themselves to increase their resource , all the way to the election count and even inside the building . I be still reel from what happen , and I be enormously proud of the positive and vibrant campaign I run despite this situation . I be so moved that the people of Poplar and Limehouse have stand by I . but they be strike , as be I , by how lawfare have be use , albeit unsuccessfully , against I and how my ex - husband ' s right to pursue I , include publicly slander I , seem to be protect . when I continue to raise this with a range of authority and people , seek support , I be repeatedly give the impression that very little could be do . and where have this be report in the medium ? it be not as though the safety of member of Parliament have not be of public interest or indeed newsworthy lately . what be it about I that evoke this deadly silence in this regard , and why be woman ' s experience of domestic abuse treat so differently ? it might seem strange to some that I raise this while advocate for press freedom , but this be clearly not press freedom , and of course it be obviously connect to the fear of litigious perpetrator and the law around defamation . indeed , the National Union of Journalists be warn of the current threat to press freedom pose by the use of litigation or indeed the threat of litigation . I have even have contact with journalist from mainstream outlet investigate my situation , who I understand in some case have even draft full article which be then block by their editor on what be refer to as " legal ground . " yet invariably no such care be take when it come to printing smear about I ; and what a strange world we live in that accuse I of lie , and indeed all sort , be not view as a damage to my reputation . far to this , the grow trend of journalist be target directly when receive threat of legal action instil fear that deter any future journalistic content on an issue . yet the free expression of survivor share their truth be , in my view a matter of public interest that outweigh the private interest and right to reputation of an abuser . prevent the misuse of litigation and the use of the law to silence survivor of domestic abuse and violence be central to freedom of speech . the United Nations and other have warn about gendere censorship take place around the world and that there be clearly imbalance in the system between " his " right to reputation and , usually , " her " right to free speech . as Jennifer Robinson and Keina Yoshida , author of " how many More woman ? " , succinctly put it : " legal change be possible . and fight back we must . because if we don ' t , how many more woman will be silence ? " it be vital that legislator consider this , so that certain type of public interest speech be not privileged over other . it be also vital if we aim to have a future free from perpetrator be able to abuse the court and pursue litigation in this way , because support survivor in speak out be crucial in envisage a world where no one be force to endure domestic abuse . because at the core of the debate around slapp be question of democracy , accountability and justice . as I have set out in term of my own situation , slapp be be use to silence public participation and suppress the provision of information by activist , environmental campaigner , non - governmental organisation , whistleblower , and even people post negative product review online . I would like to highlight another example raise with I by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism . freelance journalist Tom Latchem be investigate a foster care home run by reality show star Ampika Pickston , the fianc é e of billionaire owner of West Ham United , David Sullivan . Mr Latchem publish a story with the outlet Byline Times about the home have its licence suspend by Ofsted due to report serious safeguarding failing . I understand , however , that Mr Latchem believe he have be prevent from further reporting on the care home . he want in particular to be able to investigate an incident in which Ms Pickston allegedly take a child from the care home to her private residence , but be send a letter by lawyer for Ms Pickston warning in essence that they would review any publish material and if they consider anything to be defamatory or libellous they " will advise our client to sue both the newspaper and any individual author or journalist for libel , seek damage and cost " . I be tell that Ms Pickston ' s lawyer say their communication with the journalist be " courteous and cordial " and do not prevent he from any reporting . nevertheless , it will surely be understandable to the House that Mr Latchem feel he can not afford to face down someone with such resource . it be obvious who lose out if accountability and transparency on the treatment of child in care home be thwart . in conclusion , it be clear that we need a concrete action plan to stop abusive lawsuit silence those who speak out in the public interest . we only have a hope of stamp out slapp with a comprehensive and robust anti - slapp Bill . as such , it would be helpful to hear from the government whether there be a realistic prospect of that appear in the next king ' s Speech or any other legislative vehicle in this Parliament . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for secure this debate , and I thank everyone who have take part so far . I particularly thank the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who lay out precisely how abuser can benefit from abusive lawsuit , which continue , with a grow impact in silence those who speak out in the public interest . I also thank the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) for mention the McLibel case , which be a classic of the genre of use legal might against the small and most local publishing operation in an effort to stop grassroot public - spirited campaigning . as the Anti - SLAPP Coalition say : " without a dedicated anti - slapp law , everyone in the UK remain at risk if they choose to speak out on matter of public interest , undermine the democratic health of our society . " the case I will talk about today be that of Ben Jenkins , a citizen who make critical post and comment in various forum about GreenSquareAccord , the housing provider with which he co - own his home as a shared owner . in my work as an elect representative — as a local councillor , as a London Assembly Member , and now as an MP — I have often meet , work with and support people like Ben . these campaigner speak up when their housing provider fail , when their complaint disappear into the system and when their attempt to work with other to show the pattern in the impact on fellow resident be delegitimise . we have all see how those dynamic work around the disaster at Grenfell and how the resident be treat before the fire in relation to the ongoing issue in the building . such situation be all too common , and it be exactly the kind of concern that local grassroot campaigner bring out that the big , powerful company and organisation that operate these home most want to suppress . we can see why the dynamic of slapp come into play in such case . Ben Jenkins have face a series of serious legal threat from his social housing provider . he speak out about the company ' s inadequate response to resident ' concern , include drug taking in corridor , poor quality repair and safety risk . it be very much in the public interest for Ben to speak out freely on such issue , because safety in housing completely depend upon maintain good standard and public accountability . ultimately , that depend on this kind of whistleblowing . resident in his block have try to raise the issue through official channel , but have not be adequately listen to , so take thing to a high level be legitimate in this case . no one be say that Ben do not send a lot of communication and do not publish negative information about his housing provider , but people should be free to do that , and Ben ' s activity have be vindicate in their substance . the evidence of the issue in his block be well document . image and video footage be publish by ITV , which report the issue base on Ben ' s public campaigning . there be also many complaint by other resident post to Facebook . those have since be take down , but there be an admission by the housing company in response to ITV that resident ' complaint have not be adequately handle . jenkin and numerous other resident have now receive payout , and the Housing Ombudsman have find that the housing provider have fail to adequately respond to a series of serious complaint , include a rat infestation , a broken boiler , a burst toilet cistern , noise complaint and a roof that need to be repair . by speak out about these issue that need to be deal with , Ben face a series of legal threat for his campaigning . he be accuse by GSA ' s lawyer of harassment , of copyright infringement for use the logo on his blog and of put himself forward to complain on behalf of tenant who should have contact the company directly . I have hear that familiar phrase many time before . GSA claim that Ben Jenkins ' s criticism be excessive and targeted individual employee , who he name on social medium . GSA also say that the criticism be so frequent that it prevent the company from be able to respond to other resident ’ issue , which obviously GSA be clearly do . it demand in its legal threat that Jenkins sign undertaking to avoid legal action himself , include a commitment to refrain from " any conduct that cause or be likely to cause a nuisance or annoyance to any of the Claimant ' s employee , agent or contractor " . that condition be so broad that Ben Jenkins feel he have no choice but to refuse . the letter itself threaten that failure to sign these undertaking could incur " legal cost which be likely to run into thousand of pound " . that phrase be clearly a threat to someone live in affordable housing . ultimately , Ben Jenkins sign a more limited series of undertaking , but he refuse to take down his website criticise the housing provider . the battle with GSA have have a serious ongoing effect on Ben ' s mental health . he hope that by shed a light on these matter , the wellbeing and safety of resident will be protect and the proper upkeep of home across the UK will be ensure . he want to contribute to the raising of awareness about the challenge face and ensure accountability . I hope that the Minister will look at this case , these issue and abuse of legal proceeding and the use of bullying lawfare , where money and resource be use to shield the powerful from proper public scrutiny when they should be hold to account . will the Minister look at bring in new action to put in a robust , broad and compressive Bill to prevent it from happen ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for secure this important debate . I declare an interest , as I spend more than a decade work on open government transparency and accountability around the world , support journalist and civil society to hold government to account , often in country where people could be lock up for speak truth to power . indeed , I work as an investigative journalist report on corruption in Uganda many year ago , stand up to people who want to silence our story . I begin by recognise and pay tribute to the brave reporter , investigative journalist and victim of slapp in the UK and around the world . People look to we to lead by example on democracy and free speech — I thank the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) for all his work on media freedom — but our leadership be undermine by the use of these lawsuit to harass , intimidate and silence critic of the corrupt and powerful in this country . as we have already hear , the UK legal system have become fertile ground for slapp , particularly for those who wish to conceal money laundering and economic crime . a survey by the Foreign Policy Centre , to which my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset refer , find that international reporter on financial crime and corruption face as many threat of court action in England as they do from all other european country and the US combine . other Members have mention the case of Catherine Belton , the investigative journalist who receive multiple legal threat follow the publication of her book , " Putin ' s People " . four oligarch , include Roman Abramovich , who own frozen asset in my constituency , and a russian state oil company launch lawsuit against she and her publisher HarperCollins . Abramovich sue over a number of claim , include that he buy Chelsea football club on Putin ' s order . that libel be settle , but have that trial go ahead , the legal bill would likely have exceed £ 10 million . similarly , the journalist Tom Burgis face legal action for his book " Kleptopia " from the mining company the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation . ENRC sue Burgis personally and also target his publisher , again HarperCollins . it even go so far as sue the Financial Times over an article relate to Burgis ' s book . the defence for Burgis and his publisher cost nearly £ 340 , 000 . as the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) mention , many organisation without that financial firepower would never be able to fight those lawsuit as the Financial Times do . that claim be dismiss by the judge , but have the case go to trial and be lose , the estimate cost include ENRC ' s legal fee and damage would have rise to £ 1 . 5 million . for these journalist , the mere threat of lose their home or public disgrace show how slapp be not just about win case in court ; they be about silence dissent and a chilling effect on free speech . it be welcome that there be support from across the House on this topic . provision introduce through the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 be a welcome step . however , those measure apply only to case involve economic crime and have not yet be fully implement in the civil procedure rule . we must move swiftly to enact those provision so that , in case around corruption and kleptocracy , people can not exploit the UK legal system to silence those who seek to expose their crime . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) and the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) mention , we must go far . I warmly welcome the Prime Minister ' s pledge just last month in an article in the Guardian that the Government will " tackle the use of Slapps to protect investigative journalism " . I turn to perhaps the most harrowing recent example of the danger pose by slapp : that of Mohammed al - Fayed , the former owner of Harrods , which be in my constituency of Kensington and bayswater . in September , the BBC air allegation that al - Fayed rape five woman and sexually assault over a dozen other while they work for he . since then , over 200 woman have come forward with allegation , but , for decade , effort to hold al - Fayed accountable be thwart by legal threat and intimidation . as far back as 1995 , Vanity Fair publish an article about al - Fayed that detail how he have sue the Observer over a story about the source of his wealth . other journalist be also threaten or sue . at the time , the journalist Maureen Orth write : " all critical reporting outside the Observer virtually stop " . allegation in the press of sexual abuse be suppress . in 2008 , the Mail on Sunday prepare a report state that al - Fayed be under investigation for sexually assault a 15 - year - old . legal threat force it to remove his name and refer instead to a " senior Harrods executive " . that be how slapp work — they do not just protect reputation ; they shield individual from accountability and allow abuse to continue unchecked . Al - Fayed die before he could face justice . imagine how many woman ' s life would not have be ruin if anti - slapp legislation have be in place and journalist have be able to report freely on the case . my thought be with all the victim of Mohammed al - Fayed ; I be sure the whole House will join I in that . their bravery in come forward now deserve our utmost respect . it be not least for they that we must ensure that man like al - Fayed can no long use these lawsuit to conceal their horrific crime . I ask the Minister : how can we ensure that this Parliament will act decisively to finish the job , follow the Prime Minister ' s commitment ? as I mention , the current economic crime legislation be a step forward , but the exist slapp provision must be implement swiftly and the scope of provision must go far to cover other form of wrongdoing , include sexual misconduct , war crime and harassment , as we have hear from member across the House . first , further legislation in this Parliament will be need to ensure that , for example , we have a filter mechanism that empower court to dispose swiftly of slapp without the need for a subjective inquiry into the state of mind of the slapp filer . where there may be ongoing abuse , there must be a very high threshold . secondly , there must be penalty that be sufficient to deter the use of slapp and provide full compensation to those target . those penalty should take into account both the harm cause to the defendant and the conduct and resource available to the claimant . the level play field argument need to be make clearly . finally , there must be protective measure for slapp victim , include cost protection , safeguard and measure to reduce the ability of slapp claimant to weaponise the litigation process , include against investigative journalist . slapp be not just a legal tactic ; they be weapon against transparency , accountability and justice . we have the power and the responsibility to ensure that the UK legal system can not be hijack by the corrupt and powerful . we must ensure that those try to uncover crime and corruption of the wealthy and powerful — journalist , academic and whistleblower — be protect and not persecute . let we send a clear message today as a united House that the UK will no long be a safe haven for those seek to silence their critic . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure the debate . I have listen with interest to all hon . member , and it be a welcome exception that we be speak in the House with unity and with one voice , from a share sense of the value of free speech , to stop the bully who use slapp to intimidate people so horrifically . I too have a story . it be about a lady call Carrie Jones , who receive a legal letter from a " wealth creator " , Samuel Leeds , after she raise concern about Leeds ' s interaction with her brother , who have die of suicide after spend thousand on Mr Leeds ' s controversial course . Carrie lose her brother Danny , who be an Army reservist , to suicide in 2019 . before his death , he have attend a course run by Samuel Leeds , who still offer controversial course on achieve financial freedom through property investment . Danny , who be vulnerable and in debt even before join Mr Leeds ' s course , attempt to secure a refund from Mr Leeds before he take his life . Carrie attempt to contact Mr Leeds after her brother ' s death to understand the effect that the course have have on he , but she never receive a satisfactory response , so she speak to some journalist and other who have handle Leeds ' s course — which sister would not ? she want answer for her family , but she also feel that there be a serious public interest concern about Mr Leeds ' s business , not least because his course do not appear to be regulate by any professional or governmental body . a trading standard authority have ignore her attempt to raise concern about wealth creator such as Mr Leeds . shortly after Carrie speak to her Member of Parliament about Mr Leeds ' s course , she receive a legal letter from Ellisons , a firm of solicitor represent Leeds in numerous legal dispute with his critic . that legal letter suggest that she have be participate in a campaign of harassment against Mr Leeds . it do not immediately threaten she with a lawsuit , but it warn that legal action could follow if she suggest that Mr Leeds and his course have have any influence on her brother ' s suicide . Carrie respond firmly that she would not retract her criticism and would continue to raise awareness until her question be answer . what a very brave woman ! a YouTube channel on which she have feature ask question about Mr Leeds ' s involvement with her brother be subject to legal threat and close down . it will not surprise the House to hear that this be not the only instance of Mr Samuel Leeds send threat . the Guardian have find some 15 individual subject to legal threat from Mr Leeds , while the Economist have report on the despair of attendee , who feel the course be a scam . another man , who ask to remain anonymous , attend a course run by Samuel Leeds and be dissatisfied . he later post on the Facebook page of Mr Nick Fletcher — a former Member of Parliament — ask whether there be any safeguarding measure to protect vulnerable people from wealth creation scheme , which be not an unreasonable request . he write that he live with disability and have see people try to manipulate the vulnerable into pay for these course . that be all he say ; he do not mention Samual Leeds . despite not name Mr Leeds , the man receive a letter from Ellisons Solicitors , on Mr Leeds ' s behalf , cite the Facebook comment and warning : " any mention of our client may be perceive as harassment and / or defamation . " a spokesperson for Mr Leeds have comment : " Danny Butcher ' s death in 2019 be a tragedy . your account of the relevant event be one - sided and miss important context , which we have no confidence you will fairly represent " — to fellow mp . he continue : " our business and founder be subject to a campaign of abuse and sustained attack , include unwarranted defamatory and even obscene and deeply personal publication . " what a sensitive soul . along with member of all party , I , as a liberal Democrat , resoundingly request that the Government build slapp into any legislation that be come forward , because it be desperately need for this country , our citizen and our legal system . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this vital debate . I declare an interest , which I have raise with the Speaker ' s Office and parliamentary authority , as I be currently the defendant in a lawsuit . I will refer not to that but to general concept . we pride ourselves in this country on free speech — the quality of our campaigner , our journalism , our broadcaster and our investigator — so how ironic , embarrassing and frankly humiliating that we should be the global epicentre of slapp design to prevent exactly that . as the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) say , there be a crisis in free speech now in this country , and a crisis of fear among journalist , author , writer and broadcaster about what they can and can not say . how have we get to this situation ? surely , if we be a beacon of free speech around the world , with the great Parliament and the great legal system , we should be able to preserve and protect free speech . we have hear lot of shocking example and evidence , but there be example elsewhere in the world — state in America , for example — where anti - SLAPP mechanism have be introduce . as a new Member of this place , I be surprised to hear how long we have be talk about this — year and year . this government have be elect on a mandate of change , so now seem to be the moment for they to grasp that mandate in this vital issue and say , " yes . it ' s now time to stop talk about this and do something about it with concerted action . " I just hope that the Minister and the Government will find time in this session to bring forward anti - slapp mechanism in legislation to preserve what we cherish so dearly : free speech . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this debate . it have be an education for I . I want to refer to a constituent of mine by name . I hear the cautionary remark at the start of the debate , so I will not name any other individual . none of these matter be sub judice . Jan Cruickshank have consent to the use of her name today in the sharing of detail of her case . she be a devoted mother of three and have be in a committed relationship with her husband Rob since meet as childhood sweetheart . many of the case we have hear about today involve mega - wealthy , high - profile individual . Jan be not such an individual . Jan face a problem with her employer , the Construction Industry Training Board . in 2015 , she be allegedly sexually assault by a co - worker at the Construction Industry Training Board . upon report the assault to CITB , Jan unfortunately suffer a nervous breakdown and have to take sick leave . the person against whom the complaint be make be put on gardening leave . he return after a week , even though he have be tell to take at least a month . on return to work , he begin propagate false narrative , suggest that Jan be falsely accuse he . Jan have report the assault while in a vulnerable state , have recently suffer a significant house fire . the condition of a subsequent police interview , which last approximately 10 hour , in a damage environment compromise the integrity of the process . a senior whistleblower at CITB have reveal that its legal team have indicate a substantial potential liability should Jan ' s case come to trial . the whistleblower confirm that there be a targeted campaign to discredit Jan over several medium . CITB misuse the false narrative to depict Jan as a home - wrecker , subsequently initiate a predetermined human resource investigation focus on facilitate her exit from the company . a second whistleblower have corroborate that management plan to exit Jan from the business a month before her hr process be complete . follow the assault , Jan be place in the untenable position of have to confront her alleged attacker daily on her return to work , amid ongoing hr investigation . let we bear in mind that this be 2015 — someone have to face that situation because a large employer have fail to take proper step to separate those two individual and allow they to work freely . Jan ' s employment be terminate after what she describe as a warped and unprofessional hr investigation . CITB later communicate to the police that the situation stem from a consensual relationship , and far lie to the police , suggest that Jan have be send explicit picture to the offender , dismiss the severity of the allegation . that submission have a severely negative impact on her case and do so to this day . Jan pursue matter to an employment tribunal , with the support of her union , but she face significant challenge . here be the rub , which be relevant to the debate today : she be pressure into accept a settlement far below the realistic sum that she should have be entitle to . furthermore , she be ask to sign a non - disclosure agreement , so she could not speak freely about the case . this be why I believe that Jan ' s case fall into the category of a slapp . she be determined to seek justice , so that the alleged attacker be prosecute and she receive just compensation . this will enable she and her family to move forward . the term slapp be often employ to describe legal action aim at harass , intimidate , or exhausting victim ' resource . a broad understanding of slapp emphasise the need for protective measure for individual seek justice . Jan should not have be subject to a hr investigation or an employment tribunal . rather , she deserve time off work for recovery and support follow the trauma that she have experience . bad of all , the Police Scotland interview officer lack the requisite training to handle such a sensitive sexual assault case , result in the premature conclusion of the matter . it be later discover that this be the officer ' s first interview of that type , and she should have have supervision to guide she . I could wax on about many more aspect of this case , but I will bring it to a close at this point , because Jan ' s situation starkly illustrate the extreme harm that can be inflict by behaviour classify as strategic lawsuit against public participation . these tactic not only target individual victim but create a pervasive ripple effect that extend to their family , community and the broad public . I ask CITB to consider issue a public apology to Jan ; I ask the police to consider re - look at the whole way that the case be handle ; and I ask the Minister to meet I to discuss this situation far in more detail . I thank all the member who have speak for set the scene so well , and for give so many personal example in explain where we be at the moment . it be nice to see the Minister back in the House , and it be also nice to see she elevate to her present position . I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) in particular for present the case so well and so succinctly . I speak as someone who be name in a civil litigation High Court case involve the covid vaccine , of all thing in this world — my goodness ! — along with the Northern Ireland Minister for Health and other representative from our area . we be name collectively by someone who have decide to do it . the case have no foundation whatever , but I nevertheless have to appoint a barrister and prepare to defend something that need no defence , along with many other member of the Legislative Assembly and civil servant . although this be litigious and unnecessary and have no legal foundation , the stress and the time that it take up be terrible . those with few mean or money pursue a slapp against other who be totally innocent . the judge strike out the case of one defendant straight away , and the domino effect be that the rest of we receive the same treatment by right . I be very thankful for that approach when I be have to pay legal fee from my own pocket for discuss and voting for Government policy — which be a bit hard to comprehend . we live in an increasingly litigious society . defence can cost everything to many people , and although in many case cost will be award , that can not compensate for the sleepless night and the level of stress , and give back the peace that be take away and replace by a dark , weighty cloud of uncertainty . we have see a number of slapp case recently in Northern Ireland ; they seem to be happen regularly . in January , Northern Ireland ' s High Court dismiss a " scandalous , frivolous and vexatious " defamation claim bring against the Belfast journalist and author Malachi o ' doherty by the Sinn F é in politician Gerry Kelly . the foundation of the slapp be that the journalist have dare to talk about the Maze prison breakout that have be detail in Gerry Kelly ' s own book , and about the fact that he have shoot a prison guard . Mr Kelly try to silence the reporter , apart from expect he to offer an apology for state what everyone in Northern Ireland know to be the truth . indeed , the magistrate highlight the content of those very book , which appear to make Mr Kelly civilly liable , on the balance of probability , for the shooting of Mr Adams , the prison guard . Mr Kelly know what happen , the prison guard know what happen , his fellow escapee know what happen , and — most important — Mr Adams ' s family know what happen , yet Kelly attempt to silence discussion of it with a lawsuit . the judge be very clear in his ruling that case could be throw out , state that the proceeding " bear the hallmark of a slapp and have be initiate not for the genuine purpose of vindicate a reputation injure by defamatory statement , but rather for the purpose of stifle the voice of his troublesome critic . " this be why we need the ability for the judiciary to step in at an early stage and prevent the stifling of freedom of speech in such civil case . it seem to be an old trick on the part of many people who like to drag up the past of other while silence the voice that speak about their own past . I read an interesting article publish by the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition about another Sinn F é in case , this time involve Gerry Adams , who be attempt to use this method to silence those highlight the news that he could be civilly sue by victim of the London and Manchester bombing . accord to the article , last year 15 organisation write to the leader of Sinn F é in , Mary Lou McDonald , to express concern about the use of slapp by party member . the co - chair of the coalition write : " it be incredibly concern that effort to call out legal intimidation be now be subject to legal intimidation themselves . while solicitor do remain independent from their client , they can not disassociate themselves from the legal tactic that be deploy in the course of litigation . " I believe that to be true . I look forward to hear from the Minister how the situation can be address , hopefully through legislation in the House . this tactic must be call out for what it be , which be not to say that we should never be able to prevent someone from spread lie and falsehood — we , include every Member in the House , must retain the right to defend our character — but that be different from use a legal machine to silence the little man or the little woman . I support legislation throughout this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and I believe we must ensure that it be in place for the judiciary to use as and when it be need . freedom of speech be worth protect in legislation — we all say that — and I believe that this Parliament must send that message today . legislation be need , and I look forward to hear from the Front Benchers have to say . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome this important debate , and I thank the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for secure time for it . all of we in this Chamber be interested in the upkeep of our democracy . as part of that , we must be vigilant at all time . we must always work to construct a democracy that enable those in position of power to be hold to account , and then we must do everything in our power here to protect that system . without it , we be on a slippery slope to tyranny . with that in mind , we must all be clear about the fact that slapp have absolutely no place in our democracy , and I think all member be clear about that . slapp be intend to censor , intimidate and silence those who challenge powerful vested interest . slapp burden critic of the rich and powerful with eye - water legal defence cost . slapp prevent the misdeed of the rich and powerful from be report publicly , and in do so they limit the ability of society to scrutinise people in position of power . regardless of their protestation , the people who use slapp know exactly what they be do . I come to this place to fight for liberal value , but as member on both side of the House have say today , this be an issue that command consensus across the political spectrum . we have hear representative from at least six party make basically the same point . my liberal value mean that I have a healthy scepticism of concentration of power , whether it be state power , private power or , as be so often the case with slapp , the financial power of an individual or a company — which in some case , as other have say , be unlimited financial power . as a liberal , I feel a strong sense of duty to stand up for the right of all of we to hold those in powerful position to account . that right be at the very heart of our democracy , and slapp be an affront to our democracy . we must absolutely secure the right of critic , journalist and commentator to hold the powerful to account . failure to do so place the right of those who already have huge power and money to defend their position , and their corrupt practice and any other wrongdoing , above the importance of free challenge as part of the public debate . member who have speak about this subject previously have already say that while slapp be not always apply with the intention to win a case , they be use as a means of deterrence against organisation or individual who engage in public advocacy or speak out on matter of public concern . Dissent be silence — include , in so many case , dissent on the part of investigative journalist — and the impact on our public debate be chilling . one case that demonstrate the issue raise by these legal process involve of a story publish by Inside Housing . this trade publication conduct an investigation of the condition be endure by homeless people and asylum seeker who have be place in an office - to - residential conversion in north London . journalist witness a stain on the ceiling apparently cause by leak sewage . they also find a break fire safety door , and damp problem risk the health of the vulnerable people live in the building . People place in the accommodation be fund by taxpayer ' money . that clear case of public interest should have involve the naming of the landlord and the building , which would have enable power to be hold to account . however , when the journalist from Inside Housing give those responsible — the landlord — the right of reply , they receive a letter from solicitor threaten legal action . the article state : " while Inside Housing would be confident of defend its journalism , the cost and time involve in the legal action would be difficult for an organisation of our size . " consequently , a landlord who be offer substandard and potentially dangerous accommodation to vulnerable people , and who be take taxpayer ' money , be not name . the threat of legal action mean that even the building could not be name . we do not know whether that landlord be still in receipt of public sector contract , or whether they be still run building that be not fit for habitation , and there be no way for we to find out , as their identity be never publish because of a slapp . that be just one example of power not be hold to account for its misdeed . other example of the impact of slapp that have be raise in the Chamber today have be instructive . a number of publication have be mention today , and I want to do something unusual for a politician : offer thank to Private Eye . it regularly make brave editorial decision to give this issue the oxygen of publicity that it deserve , and it name without fear or favour . as a subscriber and a former journalist , I value its contribution . I also pay tribute to other organisation , include those that be part of the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition . other Members have mention the Bureau of Investigative Journalism , too . we on the liberal Democrat Benches be call for a comprehensive anti - slapp law to be pass , and we call on the Government to lay a schedule for when it might happen . we hope that when the legislation be bring forward , it will not be stymie by the inclusion of subjective test that require the court to infer the state of mind of the complainant . that will merely make the situation more complex , and it will further the end of those who use slapp . any legislation must be effective in protect free speech , whistleblower and medium scrutiny . we can not allow the chilling effect to continue . we must all be vigilant and , in this Parliament , end slapp to protect our democracy . I call the shadow Minister . I begin by send my condolence to the family of Lord Prescott , who be the sort of political figure who cut across party line . as a teenager with just a pass interest in politic , I fondly remember see that punch and think , " good for he ! " as a shadow Minister , I should clarify that by say he be exercise his lawful right to self - defence . may he rest in peace . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this important debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of the Opposition . we be debate an issue that be always a challenge for any democracy : how do we ensure that bad actor do not exploit important protection that have be put in place for our benefit , and how do we prevent measure that be mean to act as a shield from be turn into a weapon ? these tension find sharp expression in the misuse of our legal system through slapp . they be not just frivolous lawsuit or the expect robust exchange between solicitor and their client ; they be a serious , deliberate tactic use to stifle voice that expose wrongdoing or hold the powerful to account . they be design to intimidate , drain resource and create a chilling effect that suppress important public discourse . it have be positive to hear contribution from member that demonstrate a deep understanding of this issue and its importance . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) draw on his experience of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee and of be a former Secretary of State in discuss all the key issue that we have consider today , as do my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East remind we of the importance of ensure that the other side of the debate be remember when it come to allow people to fairly protect their reputation . my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk talk in helpful detail about what happen to the former Member Charlotte Leslie , remind we how much politician be in the firing line . I know that my hon . friend the Member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , who have join I on the Opposition Front Bench , be concerned about how slapp can be use to stifle debate both locally and nationally . of course , all Back Benchers here today want to see action from the Government . although the tone of the debate have be consensual , it be the job of the Opposition to hold this new Government to account . in what be become a familiar pattern , Labour Members , when in opposition early this year , support legislation that would have build on our work in this area . now that they be in government , however , reason to delay have appear . in the other place , the Government have say that they now think a further review be need . today , alongside an explanation for this change , I hope that we will hear a more concrete commitment and a clear plan from the Minister . slapp extend their impact far beyond the courtroom . investigative journalist , whistleblower , campaigner and even grieve family raise safety concern have find themselves silence . slapp do not defend reputation ; they conceal misconduct , shield wrongdoing and erode public trust in our institution . in the previous Parliament , as a member of the Justice Committee , I have the welcome opportunity to join a one - off session of the Foreign Affairs Committee that do an excellent job of put slapp in the parliamentary spotlight . I get to hear at first hand from witness work across journalism , many of whom have be mention today , include Catherine Belton , the author of " Putin ' s People " ; investigative journalist Tom Burgis ; Susan Coughtrie from the Foreign Policy Centre , who be co - chair of the UK Anti - SLAPP coalition ; and Arabella Pike , who be head of publishing at William Collins . I distinctly remember Catherine and Arabella talk powerfully about their experience of the sustained legal attack that " Putin ' s People " come under , and it be clear that it take real courage to persevere with its publication . Tom describe his experience across Africa , and the wide network of oligarchs and corrupt government work together to suppress journalism that would have hold they to account . he have direct experience of successfully defeat slapp relate to his own book , as other have mention . Susan describe how individual take advantage of good journalistic practice , whereby give a right to reply be use to start to overwhelm journalist , and highlight that this sort of activity be undertake by not just legal professional but other , unregulated individual . the Bureau of Investigative Journalism have document numerous case where slapp have smother story of profound public interest — story expose safety failure , corruption and malpractice . such case deserve public scrutiny , yet they be bury beneath a mountain of legal threat . of course , the right to defend one ' s reputation be important . it ensure fairness , prevent the spread of harmful falsehood , and protect individual from malicious attack . like other who have speak today , I have first - hand experience of that . a journalistic blogger decide that they have proof that my time spend volunteering as a policeman be make up , and that I have commit a criminal offence in lie about it . at the height of an election campaign , I see that story spread across social medium and reach ten of thousand of people . it be only through my take the available legal step that stop it spread far . shoddy journalism should not find shelter in anti - slapp legislation , but when slapp turn the scale of justice into tool of suppression , they undermine the very principle that they claim to protect . sadly , the UK legal system be see by some people as a favourable domain to stifle debate . although it be not a watertight source , a 2020 survey by the Foreign Policy Centre reveal that the UK be the most frequent single international origin of legal threat against journalist , account for 31 % of case . by comparison , 35 % of slapp threat originate in the US and the EU combine . recognise the threat of slapp , the previous Conservative Government introduce important legislation that the current Government say represent a significant step forward in this area . the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 define slapp in law for the first time , introduce swift dismissal mechanism and implement cost protection in claim relate to economic crime , reflect the then Government ' s belief that 70 % of slapp be link to financial corruption and the scope of the original Bill . the last government also establish the SLAPPs taskforce , a group of legal and medium professional task with improve our understanding of slapp and equip stakeholder to combat they . as other have mention , during the previous Parliament the former Member for Caerphilly , Wayne David , introduce the strategic litigation against public participation Bill , a private Member ' s Bill that present further possible step to address slapp . I will introduce my own Bill , which be base on that Bill , in early January . will my Bill have the support of the Conservative party opposition ? that be an important point and , notwithstanding my hope that the Government will introduce legislation , I expect that we will be able to support a Bill that be suitably similar to the one originally present . Mr David ' s Bill propose a robust framework to combat slapp , include a wide early dismissal mechanism , and a requirement on claimant to demonstrate a great likelihood of success for a trial to proceed . additionally , the Bill call for new civil procedure rule to protect defendant from adverse cost when slapp claim go to trial . crucially , it would have empower the Lord Chancellor to extend this framework to other court or tribunal if slapp be be use to circumvent these protection . the Conservative Government recognise the Bill ' s value , support it as a complement to the step we have already take , and importantly , so do the then Labour Opposition . unfortunately , despite its potential , the Bill fall away during the wash - up before the general election , as be sadly too often the case . the proposal have cross - party support . there be no call from the then opposition for a review or for thing to be consider far , which they have now decide be necessary . in a recent article , the co - chair of the UK Anti - SLAPP Coalition , Susan Coughtrie , express her disappointment that Labour have not develop a clear plan for similar legislation : " this could have be a relatively ' easy win ' not only for the new government , but for the protection of public interest speech and the democratic health of our society . " she be right , of course , and I can not think of a new Government in more dire need of an easy win than this Labour Government . with all this in mind , I urge the Minister to address several press question . give the Government ' s support in opposition for the private Member ' s Bill and its measure , why have they now determined that a far , delay review be need ? when will this review be complete ? even if the review recommend some change to the approach outline in that Bill , do the Government commit in principle to introduce comprehensive anti - slapp legislation next year ? if not , when will they bring forward legislation ? will the Government commit to far and ongoing work with the Solicitors Regulation Authority to see whether its work could be reform to deter law firm from take on slapp case ? finally , will the Minister commit to support the ongoing work of the SLAPPs taskforce ? ahead of legislation that have be unnecessarily delay , this would send a strong signal of the Government ' s commitment on this issue . the balance we must strike be clear . our legal framework must protect the right to defend one ' s reputation while safeguard freedom of speech and ensure that public interest journalism can thrive . I urge the Government to pick up where we leave off , as they have a detailed and comprehensive private Member ' s Bill ready to go . the powerful must not be allow to misuse the legal system to suppress scrutiny and silence critic . in opposition , Labour Members be clear on what they support and what need to be do . somehow , enter government have bring uncertainty and hesitation to their thinking . at a time when too much of this House ' s legislative capacity be leave unused , and when this government desperately need a positive story to tell , they have change course . I encourage they to build on our work and deliver in this area so that we can reaffirm our commitment to justice , accountability and the public interest , and ensure that the UK remain a beacon of free speech and fairness under the law . I associate myself with the shadow Minister ' s lovely remark about Lord Prescott . John be a political giant , and I be sure I speak for the whole House in send our thought and condolence to his family . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on secure this debate . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for give we the opportunity to debate this vital subject so early in this Parliament . we have have a good debate today , and I have always think that Backbench Business debate lend themselves well to issue where there be general cross - party consensus that a problem exist but where we need thoughtful , forensic consideration about how to move forward with sensible , workable proposal . I echo the comment of the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , on how good it be to hear the wisdom of long - stand Members , such as the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , while also hear powerful contribution from newly elect member , particularly the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) and for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) and my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . I be happy to meet the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East , although I would also like to discuss with the Department for Business and Trade whether it might be more appropriate for he to meet a Minister from that Department , give that the matter he raise relate primarily to non - disclosure agreement . slapp represent an abuse of our legal system . they curtail free speech , have a chilling effect on public interest journalism and pose a threat to our democracy . as we have hear today , they be characterise by the use of threaten tactic or action to silence those who exercise their right to free speech on issue in the public interest . these case often involve an acute imbalance of power where those with deep pocket use their wealth and influence to silence journalist , academic and other who be commit to raise issue that need to see the light of day . these powerful actor do so by abuse the legal system to suppress information on which we collectively rely . true accountability and transparency in a function democracy can be achieve only through free speech and a free press that uphold the high journalistic standard while challenging abuse of power without fear of financial ruin . as the Prime Minister recently write : " this be a government that will always champion press freedom . we believe in be hold to account . " that must apply to everyone , irrespective of wealth or position . the Government understand the profound financial and psychological impact of slapp . such action have enormous consequence for the wellbeing and the very livelihood of those on the receive end of they , because slapp conduct be not about win a legal argument or remedy . instead , a slapp seek to exhaust a defendant so that they withdraw their investigation or public commentary . that be very clear in the response receive to the 2022 call for evidence run by the previous Government . slapp also impact the standing of our legal system . that system , underpin by the quality of our legal service and independent judiciary , be hold in the high esteem internationally . the legal service sector contribute £ 34 billion to our economy each year . we must not allow our world - renowne system to be abuse for improper purpose . I must emphasise that the vast majority of legal professional in this jurisdiction operate with the utmost honesty , professionalism and respect for the rule of law . however , the small minority who abuse our system by bring slapp claim risk undermine its integrity and reputation . by their very nature , slapp rarely reach court . claimant ensure that by rack up pre - litigation cost so as to make defend the case beyond the reach of those target , often journalist investigate wrongdoing in the public interest . there be detailed account of how aggressive letter put pressure on target to remain silent , proceeding be bring in multiple jurisdiction to ramp up risk for defendant , and disproportionate cost be claim in relation to the remedy seek . apart from the distress obviously cause to those exercise their right to free speech , in medium case resource be divert as press outlet ' in - house lawyer be force to spend hour pore over a defence , instead of publishing material of real interest . in the case of freelance journalist without insurance or academic , there be often no legal resource at all for they to get advice from when a threat from a slapp claimant come in . defendant be often unable to take on the risk associate with fight the lawsuit in court , usually because of the exorbitant cost they would have to pay to the claimant if they be unsuccessful in defend their case . time - sensitive reporting be also hinder when a slapp be issue , as it prevent the journalist from reveal critical information while the case be ongoing . we can not accept that chilling effect on public interest journalism and the prevention of other information in the public interest see the light of day . to their credit , the previous Government introduce legislation to tackle slapp that relate to economic crime in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , which receive Royal Assent towards the end of last year . we support the slapp provision in the Act in opposition , and I be proud that we be the first country to legislate against slapp at national level . the Act introduce a statutory definition of a slapp and require the Civil Procedure Rule Committee to develop a new early dismissal process to strike out slapp without merit , and to develop rule provide cost protection for defendant who be subject to a slapp . I thank the cprc ' s SLAPPs sub - committee , which have be work hard on develop these rule . we expect its work to conclude early next year . the cprc will then consider the matter , and once recommendation be adopt there will be clear court procedure in place to deal with these abusive lawsuit where they relate to allegation of economic crime . the measure will go some way towards tackle this abusive practice . the Government understand that slapp claim be use to suppress public interest information beyond just economic crime . we have hear many example today that illustrate the range of subject they can cover . the right balance have to be strike between access to justice and the right to free speech . there will always be legitimate defamation claim , and any intervention must be proportionate and target appropriately . I be clear that this be a complex area and we should not legislate in haste , only to find ourselves with unworkable legislation with unintended consequence . we do not currently intend to legislate in this parliamentary session , but we be continue our work to consider how good to tackle wide abuse of the system in the long term . I welcome that general commitment . apology if the Minister be go to come on to it , but could she explain why , when Labour be content with the legislation draw up in the private Member ' s Bill , it now feel it be too complicated and unbalanced , and can not be implement ? the hon . Gentleman pre - empt the next section of my speech . we see , during the passage of the private Member ' s Bill before it fall on Prorogation , that there be strong and differ view on slapp . I understand that there be still unresolved issue before prorogation . the former Member for Caerphilly , Wayne David , the promoter the Bill , be a very good friend to I when I be previously in this House . I know there be current member who would like I to just pick up where he leave off , but I do not think it be quite as simple as that . I have read Hansard carefully and deliberately to ensure that I be aware of view across the House on this topic . I will also be meet colleague from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and the Home Office shortly to ensure we have a robust and joined - up response across Government . this be an important and complex issue , where fundamental principle of free speech and justice be at play , so it be imperative that we take the time to get this right . our immediate focus , therefore , will be on the implementation of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act provision . our future approach to slapp reform will be inform by monitor the operation of the new procedural rule when they come in . we continue to build our evidence base , take into account the view of stakeholder that be raise during debate on the private Member ' s Bill . I also invite parliamentarian to continue engagement with we as we consider long - term option to tackle slapp beyond economic crime . as well as the legislative measure that be to be take forward through Wayne David ' s Bill , non - legislative measure be be develop through the SLAPPs taskforce . could the Minister say whether that be still continue ? the right hon . Gentleman also pre - empt the next part of my speech . I be very happy to tell the House that I be keen to consider a range of non - legislative measure — procedural measure in the court — while not rule out the possibility of legislation in future , but I want to take time to look at what option will work well . as I say , we be also pay close attention to evolve approach to slapp in other jurisdiction , notably follow the adoption of the Council of Europe ' s recommendation on slapp , which be conclude last year . legislation be not the only weapon in our arsenal to deal with abuse of the system . the Solicitors Regulation Authority have already take action . its update warning notice on slapp in May this year remind solicitor and law firm of their duty and the serious consequence of breach of those duty , with new fine power of up to £ 25 , 000 when a regulated firm or individual do not meet its professional standard . the SRA also publish guidance for member of the public who may have be target by a slapp , include detail of how to report the activity so it can be investigate and deal with promptly . up until May this year , the SRA have receive a total of 71 report on slapp , and two case have be refer to the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal . we remain engaged with legal service regulator on this important subject . I be clear that where UK law firm or practitioner be accuse of breach their duty , it be important that regulator can hold they to account and tackle poor conduct . I therefore welcome the work of the SRA in do that . the slapp taskforce , refer to by the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , be , as he will know , launch in September last year to support journalist who be work to investigate and publish story in the public interest . the taskforce sit within the framework of the National Committee for the Safety of Journalists , and have work on non - legislative measure to protect public interest journalism from slapp , alongside the measure in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act . the DCMS be engage on this issue . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , will be meet member of the SLAPPs taskforce later this month to discuss progress , include how datum collection and sharing have improve understanding of the prevalence of slapp experience by the medium profession . I be confident in the careful and consider approach that this Government be take to the issue of slapp . it be important that we listen closely to the differ view on this topic and that any action we take be proportionate . that involve consider a range of option for long - term reform that account for the diversity of view express by stakeholder and those target by these abhorrent action . to echo the Prime Minister , behaviour that make use of slapp be intolerable and we will tackle it to protect investigative journalism and free speech , while also ensure access to justice . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset for champion this critical issue and all those who tirelessly campaign against abuse of our legal system and for freedom of speech . nothing could be more important . to wind up this afternoon ' s first debate , I call Lloyd Hatton . I want to wind up the debate by thank the many member on both side of the House for their thoughtful and constructive contribution . I thank the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) and the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) . it be clear from all those contribution that in this House there be a broad consensus about the need for an overhaul of our approach to slapp , in both a legislative and a regulatory sense . indeed , for once , there appear to be an outbreak of agreement in the Chamber that something must be do . it be useful to hear from the Minister , therefore , that she and the Prime Minister understand that this be important . we can not allow the scandal of slapp to go unchallenged any long . sadly , thing have move too slowly for too long . this be an opportunity for we to work together , on both side of the House , to finally put the issue to bed , once and for all . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the impact of Strategic Lawsuits against Public Participation ( SLAPPs ) on the publication of story in the public interest ; acknowledge that most case of slapp do not reach the court , but be block or change at an early , unseen stage ; far recognise the importance of disclose suppress story under parliamentary privilege in order to highlight the broad impact of legal threat on free speech ; far acknowledge effort make to tackle slapp through the Economic Crime and Transparency Act 2023 ; and call on the Government to introduce comprehensive anti - slapp legislation that provide swift dismissal of such case , protect those target from prohibitive legal cost , and ensure that slapp filer face significant financial deterrent . international Men ' s Day I beg to move , that this House have consider International Men ' s day , issue affect boy ' and man ' s health and wellbeing and gender equality . I thank member of the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate and the 22 member across five party who support the application . I have a confession to make : be new to this place , I do not know when I apply for the debate that the convention be that I would be the first speaker . however , it be an honour to open this debate mark International Men ' s Day , which take place on Tuesday of this week . I hope that I be able to give a voice to some of the man and boy in the area that I represent , who may feel powerless and unheard . my second confession be that this be the first time I have ever speak publicly about the health and wellbeing of man and boy specifically . I be unashamedly feminist . my work before come to this place be in international development , include support woman ' s empowerment project in northern Ghana and research on gender and education in Rwanda . on a recent International Women ' s day , I be in the Central African Republic to meet and seek international support for woman leader of the interfaith platform , who courageously work together to promote peace . in the UK , I have support initiative to break down barrier to girl enter science , technology , engineering and math , and I be proud to belong to a party that be work to close the gender pay gap and set a national mission to halve violence against woman and girl . Gender inequality , as we all know , have long be see through the lens of woman ' s struggle , and rightly so . woman have fight tirelessly for equality of opportunity and freedom from violence and discrimination , but when I meet and listen to my constituent , there be also undeniable challenge that specifically impact the health , wellbeing and life outcome of boy and man . these be raise with I by woman as well as man , because nobody fight for their son more than mum . may I be clear at the outset of this debate that International Men ' s day be not a call to diminish the importance of woman ' s right , nor to overshadow the progress make in gender equality for all ? rather , it be about recognise that gender inequality harm everyone — man and boy as well as woman and girl . man be more likely to die prematurely , more likely to develop alcohol addiction , more likely to be homeless , more likely to take their own life , more likely to be send to prison and more likely to be a victim of violent crime . I commend the hon . member for secure this debate . he be right to highlight the issue of suicide . More young man under the age of 18 commit suicide in Northern Ireland than anywhere else in the United Kingdom . over the past five year , suicide of young man number almost 5 , 000 . that be worrying and very concerning . I have a quick question for the hon . member . man ' s shed across the country be a great help . the one at the Glen community association in Newtownards directly help young man and teenager — order . Mr Shannon , intervention must be short than that . there will be plenty of opportunity to make a contribution , should you so wish , during the debate . I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention . I will come on to talk about man ' s shed — I meet representative of the Men ' s Sheds Association on Tuesday in Speaker ' s House . man be , indeed , more likely to take their own life . boy be more likely to be exclude from school , and they be underachieving compare with girl at every level of education . that be because gender inequality be not only structural — by which I mean an unequal division of power and resource as assign through our rule and institution — but cultural . it be embed in social attitude and expectation around manhood and womanhood . it be here where gender inequality really harm man and boy . I also recognise , as I attempt to frame this debate , that man , like woman , be diverse . there be more than one way of be male . I refer here not only to sexuality , but to binary idea of how man should behave . if member be to visit my home on a summer night , they might find Mrs Rushworth in the garden light the barbecue and I in the kitchen prepare the salad . if they be to visit in the winter , they might find she bleed the radiator while I be singe a lullaby to settle one of our child in bed . international Men ' s day be an opportunity to celebrate male diversity and to promote kind , more emotionally connected and liberated version of masculinity as positive male role model for boy . I wish to focus the rest of my remark on two concern by - product of gender inequality that be prevalent in my constituency of Bishop Auckland — man ' s mental health and the concern rise of male suicide , particularly among young man , and boy ' underachievement at school — and why we must tackle those issue head - on for the benefit of both sex . the crisis in man ' s mental health be one of the most significant issue of our time . it negatively impact not only on the individual concern , but on their relationship with family , friend and work colleague and , tragically , it be increasingly lead to suicide . in the UK , man be three time more likely to die by suicide than woman , and it be now the lead cause of death of man under 50 . the contribute factor be multiple and include debt , addiction , family breakdown and unfair deprivation of access to child , but what seem to compound all of they be loneliness and a sense of be trap carry burden alone . too often , the societal expectation that man be stoic , strong and emotionless lead to a suppression of feeling . from a young age , boy be teach to man up , to hide vulnerability and to suppress their emotion . that be a damaging narrative that not only impede emotional wellbeing , but stifle open conversation about physical and mental health . I pay tribute to the excellent organisation that be work to provide man and boy with the tool and space to talk openly about their feeling , without fear of judgment or stigma . one of they be mention a moment ago : this week , I meet Rob Lloyd and John Latchford from Men ' s Sheds , which provide space for man to come together and work on craft , while develop friendship and a mutual support network . another great example , which I be sure all member will be familiar with in their constituency , be Andy ' s Man Club , which have group all over the country that be help to end the stigma around man ' s mental health through the power of conversation . a similar organisation in my constituency in south Durham be ManHealth , which work to raise awareness of and improve man ' s physical and mental health . it organise man ' s walk and peer support group , which meet weekly . I attend one recently in my constituency , and find a group of man from all walk of life sit together in a circle . the session start with each man take it in turn to update the group on their week , begin by say how they feel on a scale of one to 10 . I sit listen , touch by the openness of those who be share , and the non - judgmental kindness of those listen and offer support . then the group leader come to I and ask , " well , Sam , where be you this week ? " I freeze briefly , contemplate how I should respond . do I quickly say something positive and move on , or should I be honest and make myself vulnerable ? do I tell the truth , that this week I be a five — not quite rock bottom but feel little joy in life ? do I admit how anxious and out of place I have feel in my new role , how the online abuse that all mp receive secretly get to I , and how I lie awake at night feeling overwhelmed by the scale of the challenge of meet my voter ’ expectation ? " five . " I do it — I share . and although I have fear that these man might struggle to relate to I , as a Member of this place , I find understanding nod and expression of appreciation . it also lift my spirit to be able to visit each of they one by one , and listen to the particular story that they want to share with I . that be the thing about peer support : it be in the giving as well as in the receiving that people feel empower . on behalf of the whole House , may I say that my hon . friend be do an exceptional job ? we should acknowledge the importance of man be positive role model for other man . do he agree that some of the situation he describe leave young man vulnerable to nefarious role model — online role model , and so on — and that all of we old man have a duty to provide opportunity to talk , and positive role model for young man ? my hon . friend make an important point . before come to this place , I use to tutor for the Brilliant Club in several school in the north - east and would often have conversation with my student . one course that I teach be about the prevention of genocide , and it touch on issue of identity - base violence and discrimination . very often , the girl would enter a conversation about the sort of misogynist comment that they receive , and their experience of sexual assault by boy in their class who be influence by so - call online influencer — to name and shame one , Andrew Tate seem to be have a really pernicious influence on many boy , and seem to promote a version of masculinity that I believe be deeply harmful , both to boy and to the girl whom they then interact with . that be an excellent intervention . the crisis in man ' s mental health and wellbeing have its root in the crisis in boy ' mental health and wellbeing . in 2020 , 122 boy age 10 to 19 die by suicide . an analysis by Childline find that , despite have more than double the suicide rate , only one boy for every five girl talk about mental health to Childline , and they be even less likely to contact the service when they have suicidal thought . boy as well as man appear to be suffer in silence . health and wellbeing be intrinsically link to the ability to learn . nationally , girl be outperform boy at every level of education from primary school through to university . in the north - east , we have the low GCSE grade anywhere in the country , particularly among boy . of course , it do not use to be this way . back in the ' 70 , it be the other way round , and there be alarm at the fact that boy be outperform girl . significant study do at that time explore thing such as language and space in the classroom and the way that boy would dominate conversation . when I visit school today , I see the reverse : boy who be suppress and do not feel able to speak freely . there be much evidence that that be not a uniform picture , and there be example of school where boy be not underperform , so we know it be avoidable and preventable . to pick up the point we hear a moment ago , research show that boy need to have positive role model . that do not just mean father and male teacher , although that be important ; it could mean old boy in the school be give responsibility to act as peer mentor to young boy . there be evidence of unconscious bias in teaching staff , which we need to get rid of . we need to raise expectation , because the school that do well establish a culture of high expectation among boy . we need to take seriously who and what be influence boy . when I be grow up in the ' 90 , it be more or less take for grant that we be in an age of progress , where our generation of young man be grow up with more respect for woman and with more progressive value . again , to reference the grow move to the far right and the misogynistic value be spread online , that progress be now in reverse . we need to guard against those behaviour by boy online . another significant intervention that I will promote in other part of my work in Parliament be a much early focus on social emotional learning in school . we need child to grow up learn to recognise , understand and regulate their emotion and to find well or appropriate way to express they . they need to learn great self - awareness , social awareness and empathy for other . People be not bear with these skill ; these be skill they develop and from an early age base on the sort of role model and interaction that child experience at home and in the classroom . the Welsh Government and the Mayor of Manchester be good example of those actively roll out programme in school that focus on child ' s social emotional learning . I will leave my remark there because I have talk for long enough , and I be conscious of leave time for colleague to make their important contribution to the debate and add to the point I have raise . I thank everyone for convene to discuss the issue . I hope that as a House we can take these issue seriously and it will not just be a debate but something that lead to meaningful change . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure the debate . Madam Deputy Speaker , where be everybody ? nobody be on the conservative Benches , besides the Opposition Whip . I be surprised to see empty Benches on the conservative side of the House . I be sure the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , will give a great speech , but she should not have to hold it all down by herself . International Men ' s day start in 1992 in Trinidad and Tobago , and we start debate International Men ' s Day in the House in 2015 . I think it be important to attend today , because it be not a competition . I always attend the International Women ' s Day debate , and my fighting for the right of woman do not in any way negate my fighting for the right of man . it be important that we campaign , so it would have be nice to see more people in the Chamber . I get a lot of misogynistic abuse online from people who say , " why don ' t we have an international Men ' s day ? " well , we be have an International Men ' s Day debate , and the House be not full . this be a great time to talk about the many man ' s charity that do amazing work . in my Brent East constituency , we have BoyztoMEN , move on up , 100 Black Men of London , Men United , make the Leap and the Social Wellness Club . we also have a lot of barber who do lot of great work . the man and boy who go for haircut be encourage to talk and have debate . they be not always great debate — I be not say that they always make sense — but customer be encourage to talk and share . there be a particularly good barber shop in Brent call Faisal Barbers . it teach the young man thing such as timekeepe ; they have to arrive on time or they can not get their hair cut . all those kind of soft skill be important in later life . I like to highlight that shop because even during the pandemic it have debate about covid , keep safe and get the vaccination . that be important . as my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland say , there be a grow range of charity , include man ' s Sheds , Andy ' s Man Club , Prostate Cancer UK , which be do a lot of work , Harry ' s Hikes , WalKing man and many more . it be important to encourage those organisation . this year , there be three key theme for International Men ' s Day : make a positive difference to wellbee and live , raise awareness of and fund for charity support man and boy ' s wellbee , and promote a positive conversation about man , manhood and masculinity . my hon . friend mention manhood and masculinity . I will talk more about that today . we know that a lot of the way in which society run be centre on man — from how clothe be make for emergency service worker , to language — so it stand to reason that , for equity purpose , there have to be more of a focus on woman . however , as I say , that do not come at the exclusion of man . be a man be not about be strong and silent — that be very old thinking . we need to encourage more man to speak up and speak out . when it come to health , 12 , 000 man die of prostate cancer every year — one every 45 minute — one in five UK man do not live to the age of 65 , and 14 man die by suicide every day . that be an alarming number ; there be a continued crisis in male suicide , which be the lead cause of death for man under 50 . I believe that there be a direct correlation between the increase in mental ill health among man and the growth in the number of involuntary celibate , or incel . that grow and worry underground movement of young man be define by a misogyny that believe that man have lose the genetic lottery and be destine to fail with woman . incel be often poorly educate boy and man , and they justify violence against woman via their ideological stance . it be important that we tackle that crisis head - on and send a strong message from this House that incel be not in any way a good representation of a good man . woman be not the enemy . one woman be kill every three day by a man , so we need man to speak up and speak out . we need man to be loud than the toxic man on social medium who have huge platform . we need man to speak louder than the man with power , the man in power and some of the man who be soon to get power . we have a lot of work to do . some 20 % of incel contemplate suicide every day . there be well - document terrorist attack and mass killing by incel . international Men ' s day be important for everyone . the world will be safe if we all work together to respect each other and make sure that we be all keep safe . I will end with a quote by Alex Karras , who say : " it take more courage to reveal insecurity than to hide they , more strength to relate to people than to dominate they , more ' manhood ' to abide by thought - out principle rather than blind reflex . toughness be in the soul and spirit , not in muscle and an immature mind . " I rise to balance the Benches and stand up for man — member on the Government Benches can not have it all their own way . hon . member may not be wholly surprised to know that I do not originally intend to make a speech in this debate , but I will add a short one in support of the community shed and man ' s shed in my constituency of Broadland and Fakenham . I most recently visit the Aylsham man ' s shed , about two week ago , which welcome woman as well as man . I have be very interested to hear some of the comment make by hon . and right hon . member this afternoon , and I have learn a lot . this debate have help I to reflect on what it mean to be a man . I stand before you , Madam Deputy Speaker , comfortable in my cardigan . that be one form of manhood , but that be probably stretch it a little . slightly more seriously , I look at my relationship with my wide friendship group and compare they with those of my wife , who be brilliant at communicating and at the small act of kindness and connection that go into make a personal community as well as a corporate community — a community around the village and school relationship . compare I with my wife , and I be find wholly want ; I fit all the stereotype . why use a sentence when a single word will do to communicate ? why pick up with old friend when I can ignore they for a few more year ? that be fine when thing be go well , but as man we be too often find bereft of support when thing go badly . Heaven forbid , if my wife be to fall under a bus , I would be devastate — she be the good thing that have ever happen to I — and the community support that I take for grant because of her involvement in my life and my family would be remove . all too often , man be leave expose . I do not quite know why it be , but we seem to be less good at and less prepared to focus on and invest time in the soft relationship that go into make that cobweb and network of community touchpoint that make we strong . it make we be here for each other . I have learn a lot in this debate ; I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee and to the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for organise it . I have already name - check the Aylsham community shed , but I will finish by name - check the Brundall man ' s shed , which I have visit a couple of time . it be easy to think that these organisation tend to be use by man who be my age and above , but actually they welcome young man and man of all age . one of their great strength be that they not only bring man together , but start challenge some of the age exclusion that we have too often in our community and bring people of whatever age into a comfortable , welcoming and friendly environment . that be exactly what it be about — whenever I go to a man ' s shed or a community shed , I feel welcome . it feel like a comfortable environment where we be accept for who we be and what we can bring . the shed be a wonderful series of organisation . one of their strength be that they do not rely on the state for funding ; they be community organisation that have come up from below and support themselves in both their direction and funding . however , there be one area in which they really rely on the community , which be quite difficult in some circumstance , and that be in the provision of accommodation . the Aylsham community shed be in a share space in the high school , which be great but bring challenge , because it have to pack everything away at 3 pm . the Brundall man ' s shed be in an extra part of a boat shed , which again mean that it be forever reliant on the good will of the wide community . while that good will be there , the organisation can flourish . if I have one message for the wide community , it be to support man ' s shed , provide they with space and get behind they . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure today ' s debate , and on the tone and sentiment of his message . this be not about undermine International Women ' s day ; it be a chance to highlight positive image of masculinity and to raise awareness of issue that affect man almost exclusively . first , I want to talk about a problem that affect many man in every part of our country : the impact of prostate cancer . last week , I be delighted to join my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary at an event with Prostate Cancer Research , highlight the vital importance of screen for a cancer that impact one in eight man and be second only to lung cancer as a cause of death in man . as we know , early diagnosis of prostate cancer be essential . diagnosis at stage 1 to 3 result in a five - year survival rate of almost 100 % , but if a diagnosis do not occur until stage 4 — where the cancer have spread beyond the prostate — that rate half to 50 % . at Barts Health NHS trust , 17 % of man with prostate cancer be only diagnose at stage 4 . we need to bring that proportion down , both locally and across the country , but sadly , that figure have be go in the wrong direction . not all of we face the same risk of prostate cancer . geographically , late diagnosis be concentrate in some area , such as Scotland and the north - east of England . area of high deprivation tend to have low access to diagnosis , and despite have a much high diagnosis rate , black man be 2 . 5 time more likely to die from prostate cancer than white man . that show that diagnosis be not the whole story — we need action to improve access to the right treatment as well — so I would be grateful for anything the Minister can say about the Government ' s plan to improve access to screening and reduce those disproportionate impact for black man . the need for fast diagnosis and more effective treatment of prostate cancer be a serious problem for man , and I be look forward to address that in the come month through the newly form all - party parliamentary group . I also want to talk about another problem that man do not have , which be worry about equality . yesterday be Equal Pay Day , the day on which the average woman stop earn compare with the average man . that be something that we should all want to remedy , not just because equal pay for work be a basic fairness , but because our economy and society work much well when all our contribution be value properly . sadly , however , teacher in Leyton and Wanstead tell I that male student now regularly question the basic idea of equal pay between man and woman . this will be an increasingly familiar point to colleague across the House , but I believe that as a society , we be only just start to wake up to the threat create by far - right online influencer who weaponise masculinity . positive example of masculinity be not hard to find . we have plenty of they at the prostate cancer event last week , and I have plenty of they in the Royal Air Force . many boy and man have no need of masculinity ; there be no need to hold a narrow few up as paragon of decency and manliness for all to imitate . those member who be not aware should know that I lead the evacuation of Kabul — I be in charge of the air force that fly 14 , 500 people out of Kabul a couple of year ago . in the documentary that be make and some of the television interview I give afterwards — one in particular — I may have break down in tear , alongside a friend of mine , a guy call Sergeant Andy Livingstone . he step forward to cradle a young child when its exhausted mother collapse during one of the evacuation flight . what horrify I afterwards be that there be article and discussion not about " person find upsetting event upset " , but simply about the fact that someone deem to be in a position of power who be a man have show some emotion . it be clear that the challenge face by young man be expose they to radicalisation , include misogyny , racism and homophobia . I just want to pay tribute to my hon . friend for raise this matter and to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this debate , and to say on record that I , and I be sure the rest of the House , think they be both amazing role model for young man watch this debate . that be very kind ; I might start cry . [ laughter . ] we should all understand that those challenge for young man include the legacy of isolation from the pandemic , a fragmented and divided society , understandably low trust in our medium and social institution , a lack of hope for the future give the dire economic growth , and the housing crisis they have grow up with their whole life . address these problem of restore hope and trust be core objective of our mission - lead Government , and these challenge be face by all our young people . therefore , in my view , the major difference in radicalisation be not a great gender rift across our society . it be that young man and boy be specifically be target by extremist and grifter . we should be clear how pathetic these conman be : they be parasite and predator who exploit and amplify anxiety that be normal for young people . it be totally normal for teenager to have some concern about body image , their love live and how they fit into peer group and wide society . it be equally normal for young people to rebel , and to want to think for themselves and to establish their own identity . what be not normal be for these anxiety to be fuel , exploit and channel into totally unhealthy obsession and bigotry . set man and boy against woman and girl , against each other , and against the institution that hold our liberal democracy together be unacceptable . as a society , we need to recognise this threat and to defend all our young people from it . we know that young people , but primarily boy , be start out in entirely benign place such as a history channel on YouTube or a gaming forum , and be rapidly be push into space where extremist predator dominate . Most of all , we need to get serious about the regulation of the space in which these extremist influence thrive . we need to make it clear to social medium platform that if they continue use algorithm that be destructive to our social fabric , fuel violence against woman and girl and be harmful to our young people , they will face the consequence . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this important debate . as we know , International Men ' s day be on Tuesday . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) talk about his service and the horror of war , and Tuesday also mark 1 , 000 day since the russian invasion of Ukraine . I want to put on record my thank to all the man serve on the frontline in Ukraine , and to those who have be injure or lose their life in that awful conflict . many important man ' s issue have be raise , and I be in agreement with much of the sentiment of the debate , particularly on the issue of health and the danger of social medium platform . however , this debate should be inclusive of all man , and I want to affirm that trans man be man . I would like to commemorate the Transgender Day of Remembrance , which be yesterday , which be an opportunity for we to honour those murder as a result of transphobia and the many more who have die by suicide . this include many trans man , and the issue we have hear debate today , include mental health and suicide , be experience by tran man . do my hon . friend agree that trans man be often miss out of the trans debate , that they be also subject to some really cruel behaviour and often suffer violence , such as rape , and that that be under - report ? I absolutely acknowledge that and will be come on to some of those issue in my speech . man and boy face incessant pressure to live up to myth and stereotype about what masculinity be and what be a man be . there be a fracture between the image we see in film and television of what be a man look like and the quality we promote and value in our male role model . as we know , this gap be dangerous : it have make man vulnerable to increase mental health problem and death by suicide . debate such as ours today help we understand the range of experience of , and difference between , man across the world . so I thank everyone for be here and for their honesty . I want to use this opportunity to talk about the unique issue trans man and transmasculine people face in the UK . I be not an expert by any mean , but I do know that address the significant marginalisation of trans man and transmasculine people benefit everybody . I want to thank all those who have educate I and continue to do so . TransActual , for example , have be do fantastic advocacy work in Parliament , with a drop - in just last week . transmasculine people have historically face erasure and a lack of representation in society and continue to do so . they be largely invisible in the medium , on tv and in film , whereas we see a hyper - fixation on tran woman in certain part of the medium . as a result there be a big gap in understand the material issue that transmasculine people face . it mean their access to healthcare be poor , and they face an increase risk of abuse , include domestic violence and , of course , transphobia . in the world of sport , for example , gender - critical feminist be express high level of concern at the possibility of include trans woman and be fight for this same exclusion of trans woman across other sex - segregate space , but there be silence surround the experience of tran man in these same conversation . this erasure lead to dangerous myth develop about the experience of trans man and a reluctance of people to try to access support or feel part of the community . TransActual tell I that generally tran man be less likely to respond to survey , despite the most recent census reveal there be largely equal number of trans man and woman in the UK . we must really listen to trans man and transmasculine people ' s need and feeling to even begin to improve wellbee and liberation . tran man and transmasculine people face a number of barrier in access equal quality healthcare on the NHS . waiting list to receive top surgery on the NHS be now in excess of four to five year just for a consultation in England , and waiting list be grow . this leave a situation where trans man and transmasculine individual be force to pay for private care , which not everyone can do , or to put up with dysphoria and the associate mental health impact , for which there be a sector - wide lack of support and training . top surgery drastically improve wellbee and save life ; it be not just something that be " nice to have " for transmasculine people . across the NHS there need to be a great awareness of trans man and transmasculine people who have give birth . if , for example , a trans man be not ask whether he could be pregnant before receive a dose of radiation , there could be serious consequence . we can begin by remove gendere vocabulary from pregnancy care and parenthood . in the well - know situation of Freddy McConnell , for example , he be unable to be list as his child ' s father . the High Court rule that even though he be consider a man by law and have a gender recognition certificate to prove it , he could not appear on his child ' s birth certificate as " father " or even " parent " . the same problem occur in access to cervical cancer treatment . currently , any trans man or non - binary person with a male sex marker on their NHS record will not be include in the recall system . in this area , the law be all over the place , and there need to be more input from trans people themselves . by move to a great awareness , we can significantly improve health outcome for all man . male privilege — patriarchy — be bad for man . by speak out about the varied experience of man , we will all become more liberated . gender diversity be a gift , and to truly expand how society understand masculinity we must bring together everybody ' s experience . I rise to speak on this issue because my view have evolve , as we be all on a journey . it be because I be a woman and a feminist that I care so deeply about support man and boy . as a woman , I care about woman ' s right , and I have raise , and will continue to raise , the voice of woman who be mistreat . that do not exclude I from care about the unique set of issue face man and boy in our society ; it drive I to take action on they . the struggle for equality be a struggle for all of we to be treat fairly , with equity of opportunity and access to the support we need for our unique challenge . I be determined to use my platform to improve the life of man and boy in my community , who be frankly desperately in need of our help . we have reach a fork in the road , and this new Government can deliver for man and woman without competition . it be time to change the conversation to prioritise policy and legislation , base not on what those with the loud voice want , but on our share vision for the society we want our child to inherit . in my area , that mean tackle the driver of male suicide . suicide among man be tear through my community in Darlington and our wide region . the north - east have the high rate of death by suicide in England , and it have the low wage . local grassroots group be do incredible work in rise to tackle that challenge in the absence of other support . just last week , I attend a fundraiser in my community . it be call " strictly step by Step " , and it be run by lot of grassroot , live experience charity . they put forward one man from each charity to take part in a " strictly come dancing " tribute . these man be ask to leave their pride at the door and prance about in the name of progress on man ' s mental health . it be fantastic to take such a difficult subject and turn it into something utterly uplifting , and that be progress in and of itself . however , the message be clear : man need to talk , and when they ask for help , they must be able to receive it , because the lag in they seek support be so long that it mean when they do ask for it , it be at a crisis point . I want to put on record in this debate how honoured I be to be able to advocate for the memory of so many I have never meet and in memory of too many I have know . I also pay tribute to those who be take their personal pain and turn it into progress for other . I hope that Tracey and David , the parent of Dyllon and Quinn ; Hilary , the mother of George ; Harvey ' s dad Michael ; and those in ManHealth , Engage and Andy ' s Man Club , who be lead in our area , can take a small amount of comfort from know how much I and our wide community value their work . I be determined to use my time in this place to improve and drive suicide prevention strategy , employment opportunity in our area , mental health support , paternity right , online safety and veteran support service . all those issue , if not tackle , will continue to push man and boy into crisis . I finish on this point : as a woman , I know what it be like to have to struggle to get a fair deal , and because of that I be determined that we do not allow a lost generation of our man and boy . international Men ' s Day UK seek to promote a positive conversation about man , manhood and masculinity . I believe that we need to debate definition of masculinity , because outdated social more about masculinity still all too often permeate society and influence boy ' and man ' s behaviour . we need to challenge stereotype . be a strong male should not equate to be unkind , nor should it equate to eschew creativity or hide one ' s feeling . I will provide a couple of example , one from the distant past and one from the more recent past . perhaps we should remember , as we hold this debate , that knight , prince and king of old be expect to be poet , musician , dancer , linguist and much more , as well as soldier , leader and so on . it be not one or the other . more recently , not many people know that our current Special Air Service , the good special force in the world — alongside the Special Boat Service , in case any of they be watch — comprise 21 SAS Regiment ( Artists ) , a regiment of the Army Reserve . the reference to artist be because a volunteer regiment be form in the 19th century name the Middlesex Rifle Volunteer Corps ( Artists ) . more latterly , it be the Artists Rifles . form of painter , sculptor , musician , architect , engraver and actor , it be tough and creative . its enlisted man and officer fight in the second Boer war and the first world war . after the second world war , the Artists Rifles be rename as 21 SAS ( Artists ) volunteer . it be vital that we challenge stereotype not just as some academic thought experiment , but because the effect on boy and man of misplace conception about manhood can be horrific for their mental health . man , sadly , account for three quarter of suicide in 2023 , with 4 , 506 tragedy — 17 . 4 death per 100 , 000 , which be the high level since 1999 . that be horrific . it be tragic for the individual and their friend and family , and it be also unnecessary . I want to touch on an example from Rugby where man be get together to do something about that terrible situation . back and Forth Mens Mental Health in my constituency be found in 2023 after the suicide of a friend of one of the founder member . it be base on a simple idea : to organise regular walk for man who be struggle with all aspect of life . it have grow to have 1 , 700 follower in a year and have achieve charity status . encourage communication be at its core , because the big challenge be to break down the stigma of talk about mental health and its associate social anxiety . my constituent in Rugby will benefit from its Christmas breakfast event in December , its social evening and , of course , its walk . it also have a podcast , which be a good listen . one of its member have say : " the group have help I find my purpose in life again . " I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this important and timely debate and for his impressive speech . I also thank hon . member across the House for their thoughtful contribution . there be so much more to do . within this challenge it be important to redefine masculinity , it be important that we support charity that work to break the stigma around mental health , and it be important that we send a message to boy and man that kindness be a strength , admit their feeling be a strength and be creative be a strength . finally , they must always , always seek help — from a friend or , if need , medical support — if their mental health be ever at risk . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this really important debate . I be touch to hear his powerful speech . I want to touch on two point that he so eloquently make . first , he rightly remind we that there be many way to be a man and many form of masculinity . as a young gay man grow up in Berkshire in the ' 90 , I struggle with that as I grow up . it take I many year to learn and feel comfortable in my own form of masculinity . I thank he for reflect on that . I also thank he for so powerfully emphasise that gender inequality affect everyone . I do not think there can be any disagreement across the House on that important point . international Men ' s day be an opportunity to remember the dreadful health outcome affect too many man in society , particularly when it come to mental and emotional health . I emphasise emotional health and will come back to that . other member have raise the alarming suicide statistic for man . in England and Wales , male suicide be three time more common than among woman . last year among man age 20 to 34 , suicide be the lead cause of death , and be responsible for over a quarter of death of man in that age range . I mention those statistic for England and Wales largely because I could not find regional or local authority datum . I be grateful to the House of Common Library for highlight those figure , but the lack of granular datum strike I as something that should be address . as well as International Men ' s Day , on Monday we will recognise White Ribbon Day . I proudly wear my white ribbon today . the theme for this year ' s White Ribbon Day be " it start with man " . that be a poignant reminder that domestic violence and violence against woman and girl be not just a woman ' s issue ; it be also a man ' s issue , and it be too often root in harmful masculine norm . let I place on record the important point , which can not be emphasise enough , that domestic abuse affect man as victim , too . it be really important that we acknowledge that . Bracknell Forest have the high rate of domestic abuse incident in Berkshire . for that reason , I be grateful that this Government have set out their mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . what be the connection between domestic abuse and violence against woman and girl , and man ' s suicide ? both be proof that , too often , man do not get the support that they need . in the most extreme case , this lack of support lead to violence against themselves and against those around they . the two issue be intrinsically link . last week I be privileged to visit a fantastic local charity in my constituency , Youthline , which do amazing work offer free counselling service for child and counselling at a reduce cost for their family . I be fascinated to hear about the support that it offer young people deal with complex emotional difficulty . I be sure that everyone in this House would agree that even the most love and nourished child can face emotional difficulty grow up . it be a difficult time for the good of we — I should rephrase that ; for those in the good circumstance — but for those face challenge , it be often a hopelessly difficult time of life . three quarter of the user of that service be girl . I be tell that , too often , boy be refer to that fantastic service not to support their mental or emotional health but because of behaviour issue — because of a perception that they be misbehave — when the root cause of that be a failure to support they through difficult emotional and mental health . I be also privileged to visit a fantastic youth club in my constituency , the Wayz . the staff talk to I about the work that they do to support girl and boy to engage with the difficulty of grow up . they poignantly remind I that , sometimes , boy find it hard to talk , so give they the space to do so — often through activity rather than direct conversation — can have a real , positive impact on outcome for young boy . prevention be always more effective than intervention — that be such an important point . with that in mind , it be welcome to see the Government ' s work to bring more mental health service into the community and focus on prevention , with an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker promise by this Government . I would welcome an update from the Minister on the delivery of those additional mental health worker . fundamentally , what we must do to support boy and man with their mental and emotional health be provide the space for they to talk through their issue in a way that support they . other have mention the fantastic work of Andy ' s Man Club . very early in my time as a Member of Parliament , I be privileged to be invite to attend one of its meeting , as be my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) . like he , I be deeply touch and move by the marvellous work that it do in my community to reach man who have for too long be fail by a system that be not well gear to listen to they and encourage they to talk about their difficulty . what I find most affect be see that the service be be deliver not by train mental health professional , but by other man who have experience similar difficulty in talk and share their emotional problem . they be support each other through their mental health struggle . it be a powerful reminder of the need for we all to provide and support the space that be need to allow such important conversation to take place . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) be extremely eloquent , especially at the beginning of his speech when he describe the work that he have do in other country and in the UK to address inequality , acknowledge the gender pay gap and the violence perpetrate against woman and girl by man , and explain how that do not undermine the need to discuss male - specific issue on International Men ' s Day . there be a great many issue that we could touch on and a number of they have be touch on by various member , but , as the Liberal Democrat mental health spokesperson , I will focus primarily on that subject . man be three time more likely than woman to die by suicide . since 1981 , the suicide rate among woman have approximately halve , but it have fall by only 9 % among man . a related fact be that at any give time , 12 . 5 % of man have a mental health disorder . man be twice as likely to die of alcohol - specific cause and about twice as likely to have substance abuse problem , they be less likely to have equal access to child , and 82 % of rough sleeper be man — partly owe to mental as well as physical health issue . I want to pay tribute to some amazing charity in Winchester . Emmaus Hampshire , the Winchester Beacon and Trinity Winchester be homelessness charity that work hard to ensure that homeless people have a safe place and support , can get back on their foot rather than be stick out on the street , and can engage with social service . the staff , volunteer and other supporter — include the council — do an incredible job . tomorrow I will be visit Trinity Winchester with another charity call StreetVet , whose vet treat the dog belong to homeless people . this be not primarily an animal welfare issue . homeless people with dog be much less likely to take part in risk - take behaviour , much more likely to engage with social service , and much more likely to get off the street more quickly . these be multifactorial and complex issue , which almost always include a mental health factor , but there be many different way in which we can come together to address they . one thing that have strike I be the fact that we be all much close to become homeless than we be to become millionaire , regardless of our status in life . another organisation that I want to talk about be the Farming Community Network . I grow up on a small family farm in a rural area , and I now work as a vet with rural community . we know that farmer have a very high suicide rate . although an increase number of woman be become involve in farming , which be a very good thing , it be still very male - dominate . the mental health of farmer have be of specific concern for a long time . about five year ago , I go to a Farming Community Network meeting and meet a farmer from Australia who have have a mental health breakdown . he give a talk about his journey , his mental health breakdown , how he get help and how he get through it . what really surprise I be that several hundred other farmer have turn up to hear the talk , and they all discuss mental health afterwards . a huge majority of the farmer be middle - aged or old , and I remember think that this show how much progress we have make on man discuss mental health . I do not think that my father , who die a few year ago at the age of 83 , would have ever discuss mental health . he certainly would not have talk to his friend about mental health issue or any struggle that he have . farming be an industry where people have to be problem solver , and they work in difficult condition . it shape people to be unwilling to show what they see as sign of weakness , but we know that those work in isolation and in tough situation need to rely on each other for help . the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) speak about the 12 , 000 man who die each year from prostate cancer . we know that mental health and prostate cancer be the two big issue that get discuss when we think about man and man ' s health . there be so many other issue as well , but those two be at the very top . I thank all the woman who support man with health issue and mental health issue , because we know that woman often ask man to go and get check out when they have a health issue , and that woman urge their partner or son to go and get counselling . we know that man — I include myself — be really bad at proactively seek help , and the nudge and support that we get from woman must save so many life . we have talk a lot about the fact that , compare with woman , man and boy currently underperform throughout their educational career . we have also discuss the huge issue that we have with increase radicalisation and misogyny , especially online . we have touch on people such as Andrew Tate and the effect that they have on impressionable young man who sometimes feel that they do not have the opportunity that they think they deserve . we know that throughout history , man have have more power , more access to finance and more influence than woman . on International Men ' s Day , and as a man who be privileged enough to be in this Chamber , I want to take this opportunity to call for more research into endometriosis . it be an underdiagnosed disease of woman , and there be often a delayed diagnosis . there have not be a huge amount of research into it , and many woman struggle with endometriosis in the same way that man struggle with mental health issue . as the hon . member for Bishop Auckland point out , man ' s health issue affect woman and woman ' s affect man . we should not separate they ; we should work together and make sure that we support each other , because that be what we have to do go forward . finally , I wish to echo other Members ' comment . as someone who be a trustee of a mental health charity for seven year , I know that it be so important to talk to each other if we be struggle . I be really pleased when one of my constituent , Chris North , come up to I in the pub to say hello . he be a trustee of a charity call LooseHeadz , and he come to visit I in Parliament last week with the two founder , Dave and Rob . the charity be primarily base in rugby club , and its aim be to have a mental health lead in every single club . a little like farming , rugby be traditionally a fairly alpha male environment , although that be change . the charity be aware that , if it get into community , team and clubhouse — place where man go anyway — it can encourage they to open up and talk through peer - to - peer support . that be where it can make a huge difference . last week I meet Sam Burge , a farmer from Winchester who be the local volunteer for the Farming Community Network . he talk about the importance of peer - to - peer support , and a breakdown of the call to the Farming Community Network reveal a variety of issue , but mental health support and mental wellbeing be at the top of the list . it be encouraging to see that initiative such as LooseHeadz and the Farming Community Network be encourage man to reach out for help with their mental health . I call the shadow Minister . as usual , a Thursday afternoon of Backbench Business debate mean that we be more collegiate than ever . the debate on strategic lawsuit against public participation be extremely welcome , and I be surprised to hear how many people have be catch in that process , whether in the political arena or elsewhere . I associate myself with the tribute pay to that titan of politic , Lord Prescott . he be revere and respect across this House , and he put the fun into politic . we have to enjoy this game occasionally . I , too , pay tribute to Lord Prescott . I remember read a newspaper article a few year ago in which he open up about his struggle with bulimia , and how he use to eat through an entire restaurant menu , or drink condense milk , and then go home and vomit . it must have take a huge amount of courage , especially 15 year ago , for a former merchant seaman and boxer to talk about his struggle with an eat disorder , from which we know man also suffer . this be a good day to acknowledge the impact that his be so open must have have on the many man who have an eat disorder . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point . in my 10 year in this House , the man who have be send to this place have make such a difference through their work in their constituency and their surgery . they bring that to the Chamber , and we be all the rich for it . I thank the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this Backbench Business debate . he make an excellent , thought - provoke and important opening speech , and it be a pleasure to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s official and loyal opposition . I be pleased to chair the reconstitute all - party parliamentary group on man and boy ' issue . anyone in the Chamber who would like to join we be extremely welcome . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nick Fletcher , who be no long in this place . like all the former member who have serve on the all - party parliamentary group , he really put these issue on the record . I thank the secretariat , Equi - law , for its work . member should please join we , because there be a clear affinity . this debate be an opportunity to thank and support our menfolk : our dad ; our brother — I be lucky to have a wonderful brother ; our husband , and sometimes even our ex - husband — who would have think ? ; our son ; our grandson ; our uncle ; our grandad ; our father figure ; our male friend ; and our male ally . as the shadow Minister for Women , I should say that our male ally do so much for woman ' s cause , as we have hear this afternoon . local group really matter . on Christmas shopping night in Uckfield last year , I see the work of the Uckfield man ' s shed — this year ' s event be come up shortly , and I be look forward to see that again — and some of my constituent attend the Burgess Hill man ' s shed . as hon . member have mention , the work undertake by many charity make a big difference . mankind support male victim of domestic violence . we talk about the stigma of such abuse , but domestic violence be criminality in the home , whether the victim be male or female . it be absolutely right that we tackle that violence and criminality wherever it be find . MANUP be a great charity for male mental health . the campaign against live miserably — calm — often support man . of course , it be now Movember , although I see my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) have go far than grow just a moustache . the Movember Foundation focus on man ' s mental health , as well as on prostate and testicular cancer . we have hear some excellent speech . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — he be no long in his place , so perhaps he have give himself a little bit of time off — make an intervention about the impact of male suicide , especially that of young man . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , who I work with on the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament , talk about right not be a zero - sum game . I be off to the hairdresser tomorrow , so I be delighted to know that the barber in her patch be great place to share conversation , which be really important . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) talk about his cardigan , as well as the importance of group in his community . he pay tribute to the environment create by man ' s Sheds . the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) talk about man ' s health matter , and about the bravery and powerful importance of man talk about emotion . he say that should be the norm , but it still need to be challenge . the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) talk about the man who have step up in Ukraine , the work that have to be do during war and the sacrifice that be make . he also talk about the challenge of social medium and the importance of tackle transphobia . the hon . member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) speak about true equality and value the community by the action of man . the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) talk about the importance of tackle male stereotype . the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) make a thoughtful speech about life as a young gay man . I be proud of the work do by my party , and all party , over the past 10 year on change in representation in this place and on equal marriage . we roundly welcome everybody , from every different background , to be part of our great political institution . the theme of this year ' s International Men ' s Day , on Tuesday , be positive role model . we can all think of a particular male role model in our life — they may even be the reason we be here today . for most of we , they may be our own father . academic research show how pivotal an early role model be for child , cite positive impact on behaviour and cognitive development . many hon . member be wear white ribbon , because White Ribbon Day be approach . this year , its theme be prevent man ' s violence against woman and girl — " it start with Men . " the message be that we can address attitude and behaviour together , and we can effect positive behavioural change by promote true gender equality and work together with our man and boy . positive role model be important . it be estimate that 1 million child in the UK do not have meaningful contact — describe as two or more contact a year — with their father . that be deeply troubling . it be troubling and tragic that the large killer of man under the age of 40 be suicide . many of we will know boy and young man who have be lose . it be important to be there to listen and to give man the opportunity to open up . we encourage and implore man and woman to do that . the suicide prevention strategy set out by the previous Conservative Government for tackle suicide be a priority . the then shadow Minister say it would be a priority for any incoming Labour Government and I hope that can be reaffirm . will she give the House an update on any ambition in that regard ? we have also talk today about challenging expectation of manhood . it be important to have that diversity of expectation : man at the nativity , man on the school run and man take the lead when it come to childcare , cleaning and household chore . I say to all lady that that be real equality . last year , a man ' s health ambassador be to be appoint to lead a taskforce to continue to look at the health issue face by man . can the Minister update the House on that position ? the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) rightly point out the issue of farmer and loneliness . I be very proud that in government we bring forward the role of Minister for loneliness . there be the isolate struggle of work on the land and the tragic impact , when there be no support , of gambling addiction , substance abuse , divorce , relationship breakdown , bereavement and career issue ; man ' s identity be often link to their career and employment opportunity . there be also the impact of money worry and job loss , and on top of that , issue around body image . I agree that we need space to talk , such as Andy ' s Man Club , and the power of man support man as equally as woman support woman . whether it be prostate - antigen screening and the work around prostate cancer or innovation when it come to detection and treatment , that be very important . we also know that boy in various cohort underperform , with low pass level at GCSE and in high education . it be important that social mobility and aspiration be tackle — through provide opportunity for all and particularly for white working - class boy . that be still too often leave behind . I be sure I need to close , so I will do so by commend all member for focus on improve the outcome for man across their constituency . man and woman in this world be a partnership . our man matter — their dream , their hope and their goodness shine through . their wellbeing be our wellbee and true equality be a shared opportunity for all . it be about a share understanding and shared success and choice . I will use my time in the House to help man and boy in my constituency to thrive . that mean be able to be understand and value on International Men ' s day and beyond . before I start my speech , I would like to pay a huge tribute to Lord Prescott , even though he cause great consternation to my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) when she be stand right behind he as general secretary of Welsh Labour during a certain incident in north Wales . I be sure John would have welcome today ' s debate , campaign as tirelessly as he do to extend opportunity , champion worker ' s right and , as mention by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , open up on his own mental health . my sincere sympathy go to his family at this time . he will be sorely miss , but fondly remember . we have have a very positive and constructive debate today , in that lovely consensual way on a Thursday afternoon when we look at the real issue and think how we can tackle they and what we need to do . I be pleased to respond in this debate , celebrate International Men ' s Day and join 80 country in mark the contribution that man make to our world . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for make sure we have this opportunity . he be the vice - chair of the APPG on man and boy ' issue , and now we have find out who the chair be : the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . I be sure there be a great partnership there and that we will hear a great deal more from they about the priority and the thing that we need to tackle . I thank all member who have take part in the debate . we have certainly have a very thoughtful array of contribution . in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland , who open the discussion today , be man enough and brave enough to open up about his own issue and how he share those with one of his local group . so many local group and the excellent work that they have do have be mention in today ' s debate . as my hon . friend outline , some of the main issue be health , suicide , crime — whether it be commit a crime or be a victim of a crime — exclusion from school , social and cultural expectation , and the need for positive male role model . there be , of course , also a large focus on mental health , education , entertainment and the position of influencer . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) mention a number of very important organisation in her constituency . she speak about prostate cancer and that pernicious issue of the subculture , incel , and the harm that it be cause . we then hear from the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) who mention his own excellent volunteer group , include the Aylsham man ' s shed . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) talk about young man , who , when genuinely consider teenage issue such as body image and relationship in a perfectly normal way , be target by extremist with horrendous misogyny , bigotry and homophobia . they be be set against the institution that keep our society together . there be so much that we need to do in that area . as my hon . Friend mention , it be about restore young man ' s hope — restore hope that they have a future — and help they to achieve their goal . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) focus very clearly on the issue of trans man and transphobia . I would just say to he that the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that trans people can receive the care and support that they need when access NHS service . we frequently engage with a wide range of stakeholder in this area , include the LGBT + health adviser , Dr Michael Brady . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) speak about the need for man to talk and to be able to access the service that they need . she talk about a whole range of service , right from the time of need paternity leave through to the need of veteran — the whole age range of need for support for man . my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) talk about tackle stereotype . that remind I of a quite old - fashioned headteacher , who I once work under in a school in Swansea . she say to the boy , " if you want to be in the rugby team , you must be in the choir . " that be the same sort of idea : break down the stereotype that man should not be do artistic , wonderful and creative thing as well as physical thing . my hon . Friend also mention the tragedy of suicide and again talk about the organisation in his constituency that have do very good work in help man in that respect . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) talk about stereotype and the pressure of those stereotype , man ' s suicide , the need for mental health support for man and the need to encourage man to talk . the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , talk about farmer and how extraordinary and welcome it be to find middle - aged farmer now open up . again , he mention the issue of prostate cancer and how , as a doctor , he would advise every man to get check . he stress the importance of be open about health and talk about it . just to clarify , I be a vet , not a human doctor . I remember the hon . member ' s maiden speech . I remember it very clearly . none of we will ever forget it . I do not want to be give medical advice . no , but I be sure , that , as a vet , the hon . Member would still urge man to get check out . lastly , the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield , talk about the collegiate debate that we have have , how male ally help on woman ' s issue and woman ally help on male issue , and the importance of voluntary group and positive role model , which be so important in this area . many man and boy with mental health issue be still not get the support and care that they need , with man shockingly three time more likely to die from suicide than woman . that be why this Government will fix the broken system and ensure that we give mental health the same attention and focus as physical health . we intend to provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school in England , and recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker across child and adult service . we have already start to make change . early this month , we introduce the Mental Health Bill , which will modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 . the Bill will ensure not only that our legislation be fit for the 21st century , but that man and boy get the crucial support that they need . man be three time more likely to die from suicide than woman , and this Government be commit to tackle suicide as one of the country ' s big killer . as part of that , the 8 , 500 new mental health staff we will recruit will be specifically train to support people at risk , to reduce the life lose to suicide . the suicide prevention strategy for England publish in September 2023 identify a number of group for tailored or target action at a national level , include child and young people and middle - aged man , and we be explore opportunity to go far . some 79 organisation have be allocate funding from the two - year 2023 to 2025 £ 10 million suicide prevention grant fund , and be deliver a broad and diverse range of activity that will prevent suicide and help to save life . the charity Second Step in Bristol , for example , provide man who be in psychological distress or have recently self - harmed but be not in contact with mental health service with short - term emotional and practical support intervention via its Hope Project , include develop support plan that give people hope . user of the service have say that this work be life change . while we know that there be gendere health impact , there be still much that we do not know ; however , we remain determined to reduce health inequality wherever they fall . as I mention , one thing that we can all get behind be work with NHS England , which be partner with Prostate Cancer UK . I repeat the message of that important campaign : " use Prostate Cancer UK ' s risk checker , understand your level of risk , and make an informed choice about whether to have further test . " we be work with Prostate Cancer UK to launch TRANSFORM , a nationwide screening study support by £ 16 million of Government funding , so that we can ensure that man receive a diagnosis as soon as possible . some illness be simply more prevalent among man . man be more likely than woman to consume alcohol at harmful level . they be also more likely to smoke and suffer from addiction . ensure that they have access to help and support that work for they be crucial to break the cycle . that be why it be so important that in addition to the public health grant , the Department of Health and Social Care have allocate local authority a furth £ 267 million in 2024 - 25 to improve the quality and capacity of drug and alcohol treatment and recovery . alongside the step that we be take to support smoker to quit and to provide gambling support service , that represent a huge commitment to ensure that man be able to break the cycle of addiction and disadvantage . we know that the pressure on man , particularly young man , to achieve an idealised body image have increase in recent year . while the impact of body image on girl have be take seriously , when it come to boy it can be trivialise , despite have wide - reach consequence . that be why through statutory health education , secondary school pupil be teach about the similarity and difference between the online world and the physical world . body image be explicitly cover in the topic of internet safety and harm , but can also be cover in topic such as respectful relationship , online relationship , online medium , mental wellbeing , and physical health and fitness . the teacher training module of those topic be free to download . in try to combat some of the online misogyny and undesirable influence that we have hear about , I would like to mention one initiative in Wales , where influencer and role model from Welsh sport team , music and popular entertainment streaming , such as reality television , be use to generate a positive response . for example , Ben Davies , Joe Morrell and David Brooks from the Wales football team get together for a locker - room chat on positive masculinity and what man can do to help woman feel safe in public . the content be release to tie in with Wales ' s Euro qualifier and White Ribbon Day . we have hear about the many problem , but of course there be hope . I pay huge tribute to all those organisation work hard to make this hope a reality and offer support , whether in a small or more extended way , to man up and down the country . I highlight the work of Llanelli man ' s shed in my constituency , which recently move into new premise in North Dock . it be part of Men ' s Sheds Cymru and the wide Men ' s shed movement across the UK . man ' s Sheds and other organisation like it create those important space to improve man ' s health and wellbeing . last year , I meet an inspirational man ' s support group run by the Stroke Association where man can discuss how stroke have affect they physically , mentally and emotionally . I assure the House that we as a Government take seriously all the issue raise , and I look forward to hear many more discussion about the issue and problem man face and the wonderful work be do to help man . long may we continue to work together to tackle the challenge that man can face . I thank everybody who have participate in the debate . I wish that every day in the Chamber be more like this Thursday afternoon , where we have practise a kinder , more respectful politic — I appreciate that . I do not have time to do justice to everybody ' s speech , but I will probably write to some member to thank they for the particular comment they make . I be strike by the number of member who talk movingly about voluntary work and charity in their community . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) mention one of they , but I can not read my writing well enough to know what it be — I will have to check Hansard . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) mention work with veteran , and we have some fabulous veteran charity in our area in Durham , not least SSAFA , which I have work with . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) talk about Youthline . the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) talk about StreetVet , the Farming Community Network and LooseHeadz . we have a wonderful organisation in my area call UTASS — the Upper Teesdale Agricultural Support Services — which do important work , include support the mental health of our farming community . there be also ManKind , CALM , Movember , Men ' s Sheds , Andy ' s Man Club — I could go on . I mention they because I be always in awe of people who after a long day at work dedicate their time to serve other in their community while ask for nothing in return . that culture of volunteering be one of the thing that make Britain great and for which we can all be proud . I be also grateful for the tribute pay to John Prescott . his courage talk about eat disorder be rightly mention , and I be pleased that other people bring that issue to the debate because it be another emerge challenge for young man today . I be grateful to the Minister for her response , but let I mention briefly a couple more thing for she to take away . social emotional learning on the curriculum be so important , as be work around positive masculinity in the classroom . the Government be commit to important work on mental health worker , and strengthen and support the charity sector be important . I hope that the call for a mental health Minister will be consider . as the shadow Minister mention , security for man at work be so important for tackle man ' s mental ill health . I thank everybody for their contribution . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider International Men ' s day , issue affect boy ' and man ' s health and wellbeing and gender equality . Cleat Hill Heat Pump Incident Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) before I call the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , I inform member that the Speaker have grant a waiver to the House ' s sub judice resolution in respect of the coroner ' s inquest into the two death connect to the Cleat Hill gas explosion . member may therefore refer to the inquest in this debate . I be very grateful to have secure this debate on the impact of the Cleat Hill pump incident on resident , and I welcome the Minister to her place . as she know , I have a number of question , some of which she will be able to answer , and a number of which will be for other Departments — although I be sure that she will be able to pass those on to the relevant Minister . on Tuesday 2 July , during drill for the installation of a ground source heat pump in a residential neighbourhood back garden on Cleat Hill in my constituency , a reservoir of gas be encounter at a shallow depth of approximately 100 metre . subsequently , certain discussion , recommendation and action be make by various party in response . on Saturday 19 October , an explosion at the property result in the death of two people : Paul Swales and Julia Harris . the blast happen close to where gas from the underground reservoir have be vent . by the time of the explosion , gas have be vent from the shallow reservoir for 109 day . approximately 50 household be evacuate from their home on Saturday 19 October , and for nearly five week now my constituent have be live with relative , friend or , in the majority of case , in temporary accommodation provide by Bedford borough council . I take this opportunity to commend my constituent for their resilience to the disruption cause to their daily life , and to the anxiety that have be cause and which continue to be feel by many . I also commend the community and spiritual support offer by St Mark ' s church in Brickhill , which have provide facility , fellowship , food and a focus for resident over these five week . I pass my condolence to the family of Paul Swales and Julia Harris . there be currently a series of investigation , include by the police and the Crown Prosecution Service , regard the period between the encountering of gas on Tuesday 2 July and the gas explosion on Saturday 19 October . hence , the focus of this debate be on the circumstance and regulation precede the early date and subsequent to the latter date . however , there be some open question on the mind of my resident regard the period under investigation , and I believe that they be worth put on the record in this debate , although I appreciate the Minister will not wish to comment at this stage . which agency be in charge of make my resident safe after the discovery of gas on 2 July ? which agency be responsible for sign off the mitigation of vent gas ? who , if anyone , be responsible for the venting of gas for the period between 2 July and 19 October ? do the responsible entity have the requisite expertise to take on those responsibility ? what procedure be put in place to ensure that the venting of gas in a residential neighbourhood remain safe ? be the correct response make when resident provide concern about the venting of gas ? which regulation guide the response by agency from 2 July , and be they sufficient ? my resident hope that the various investigation will be able to provide answer to those question and the many other that they have raise . I turn to the current situation . the british Geological Survey continue to monitor for gas in both the air and soil in and around the 100 - metre cordone - off area . recent measurement have be consistently at negligible level , but monitoring continue to take account of various climatic feature — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) that may strike some people as odd , but it be the normal Commons procedure . there will be a further meeting tonight host by Bedford borough council . I record my thank for the leadership show by Laura Church , the chief executive of the council , and my thank to Craig Austin and the other staff of the council for their considerable effort on behalf of resident . the meeting be helpful in address immediate concern , but I will raise some other issue . first , there be the return of resident to their home . as might be anticipate , there be difference between resident regard their confidence in return to their home . many be eager to do so , but many resident have considerable anxiety about a return , with concern for their safety and that of their child or love one . I have speak to resident , and a major assistance in build that confidence would be an accountable , authoritative voice to underwrite the assertion that it be safe to return . however , it seem that none of the agency have the combination of expertise and authority to make such a call . in the absence of that , the default may be that the risk of return will be transfer from a responsible body to each resident , with potential implication for future insurance and other liability , which clearly should not happen . what step can the Minister take to end this mexican stand - off regard advice on a safe return for resident to their property ? will she urgently investigate in what form a responsible agency or authority could provide the underwritten reassurance that it be safe for resident to return ? over this period , Bedford borough council have incur considerable additional cost and divert many officer and staff to manage the need of resident . the exceptional demand for expenditure and human resource come shortly after one of the most significant incidence of flooding in the area ; in fact , the Met Office report that Bedfordshire have its wet September since record begin in 1836 . much of that rain come in the very last part of the month and cause significant flooding . as the Minister be well aware , there be a scheme — the Bellwin scheme — that can be use to support local authority with cover those exceptional cost . I know that the Department have be in discussion with Bedford borough council and be wait to hear whether a formal application will be make . I also understand that minister be empower by section 155 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 to decide whether to activate a scheme after consider the circumstance of each individual case . there be discretion here . should the council make a formal application , will the Minister ask the Secretary of State to use the power grant to she under section 155 to approve the application by Bedford borough council ? the incident at Cleat Hill should also stimulate a review of regulation to see whether they be sufficient or should be update . it may surprise hon . member , as it do my constituent , that it be permissible to drill a hole 100 metre deep in a back garden without any permit or notification require . such borehole be consider permit development . will the Minister review whether the drilling of a 100 - metre hole in a residential area should continue to be classify as permit development , or whether there should be a permitting or notification requirement ? the Cleat Hill incident also raise some question about the regulation of the installation of heat pump more generally . More than 30 , 000 ground source heat pump have be instal in the United Kingdom , and this be the first know incident in which a gas reservoir have be tap during the drilling for a ground source heat pump . however , the UK currently plan to roll out many more heat pump — a large proportion of which will be grind source heat pump — in its effort to achieve net zero . we must remember that borehole be drill for a variety of reason , not just for heat pump , and that the incident at Cleat Hill be about the drilling of borehole , not the heat pump specifically . however , the Ground Source Heat Pump Association , which be not party to the investigation , write to I to say : " while this be the first incident of its kind in the UK , and be extremely unlikely to be repeat , we do not feel it would be appropriate to simply wait until the formal investigation have conclude . " it go on to say : " on that basis , the GSHPA have communicate with all its member advise they to procure gas monitoring equipment , if they do not already possess it . as a precautionary measure , we have instruct member to go above and beyond present regulation and guidance and to follow the procedure give in the Borehole Sites and Operations Regulations which apply to Coal Authority Areas when drill borehole for ground source heat pump ground loop at all site . " in light of this , will the Minister ask the relevant Department to review the geographic scope of the Borehole Sites and Operations Regulations 1995 and decide whether they should be extend to cover a broad part of the United Kingdom ? more generally , will she ask the relevant Minister to engage with the Ground Source Heat Pump Association to review and , where necessary , update the regulation and official guidance on the installation of ground source heat pump ? as you might imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , my resident who have be out of their home for five week have some practical question about insurance and the impact on house value . I would like to put those on the record , although I appreciate that there be limited scope for consideration of official support by the Minister . the first question be about the variation between insurer regard the number of day that a policy holder can be absent from their home . for some insurer , that number be 30 day ; for other , it be 60 day . I write to the Association of British Insurers , which advise I that although those provision remain in place , " insurer will take a case by case approach and look to respond sympathetically where customer be likely to remain out of their home beyond the limit provide for in the policy due to the evacuation . " the second question be about the impact that the discovery of this shallow gas reservoir and the explosion may have on my resident ' future ability to obtain home insurance , and on the premium attach to such policy . again , I put those question to the Association of British Insurers , and I be grateful for its response . the ABI can not comment on individual pricing or commercial decision by its member , but add : " that say , we have raise the concern with our member , and we be not currently aware of any general issue relate to Cleat Hill that would change the general underwriting approach apply to the area . it will be a commercial decision for individual insurer and a range of criterion unrelated to the incident may impact on an individual household ' s future risk . these will continue to be assess by insurer on a commercial and competitive basis . " on house value , I be grateful for the response to my question from the Minister ' s colleague , which state : " on your question about the effect on property value , it be possible that there could be some diminution of property value , however our expectation be that property value will return relatively quickly to comparable local level . " I be grateful to be able to put those point from the ABI and the Minister ' s colleague on the record . I will close by comment on the importance of gain a comprehensive understanding . in July , my resident be alert to the release of gas , but be content to return to their home because they believe the situation be under control . now they face a return to their home in very different circumstance , with many more question , much great anxiety and much less trust in take people at their word . currently , the size and scope of the gas reservoir at Cleat Hill be not know . an assessment be be make of the cost of a project to provide this information , but it be likely to be beyond the budget of the local authority . the central issue remain the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the status of the gas reservoir . how significant be it ? what be its geographical scope ? do the period of venting create fissure in the layer of rock that have keep the gas from seep into the soil ? do the 109 - day period of venting release such a proportion of gas as to make the rock layer susceptible to collapse from the downward pressure of the 100 metre of soil above ? these be all very important question to be answer . there be an emerge plan for the gas monitor and alarm to be available to local resident and connect to a 24 / 7 response centre . this long - term monitoring plan be design to provide an early alert to resident should there be any future change in detect methane level . however , can the Minister advise we of which agency would be responsible for the ongoing monitoring if such a long - term plan be put in place ? can she assure I that the Department will be able to seek expert advice , so that the correct plan be put in place for both the regularity and duration of testing , include of the stability of the close borehole and of the rock layer contain the gas reservoir ? to remind the Minister , the incidence of break a seal on a shallow gas reservoir be historically extremely rare . it be not exactly comparable , but the drilling in 2007 of borehole for geothermal energy in Staufen in Germany create significant problem a decade later . in that case , water be release , not gas , but I believe the incident reinforce the need to gather a comprehensive understanding of the situation at Cleat Hill . so will the Minister instruct official in her Department to liaise with Bedford borough council to assess the proposal to conduct a full survey of the scale and scope of the gas reservoir at Cleat Hill , and see whether the cost of that survey can be bear centrally ? may I begin by pay my tribute to Lord Prescott and send my deep condolence to his family ? Lord Prescott be a great friend of the east end , where I be a Member of Parliament , and we remember the contribution he make to so many life in our country . turn to this very important issue , I commend the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) for secure this debate on the impact of the Cleat Hill heat pump incident on resident . I want to extend my deep sympathy and those of the Government to the family and friend of Mr Swales and his sister - in - law , Mrs Harris , who die as a result of an explosion in their home in Cleat Hill . like the hon . Gentleman , I be grateful to the emergency service for their response to this terrible incident . I also thank the other agency involve both in seek to ensure a clear understanding of how this incident occur and in work to ensure the safety of local resident . I know that the hon . Gentleman , as the local Member of Parliament , have be very much at the heart provide support to the resident affect by this incident , and today ' s debate be testimony to that work . as the hon . Gentleman point out , on Saturday 19 October an explosion in Cleat Hill , to the north of Bedford , destroy a house . tragically , Mr Swales die at the site and Mrs Harris die six week later in hospital as a result of the fatal injury she sustain . in such incident , the most important consideration for local partner be of course the protection of life . this mean the evacuation of 43 household comprise some 100 individual . as a result , 26 household remain in temporary accommodation , with 17 household have make their own arrangement such as stay with friend and family . as the hon . Gentleman point out , that be hugely disruptive to the life of the resident , alongside the add uncertainty and the ongoing issue with not be able to return home . the initial investigation by the gas distributor Cadent find that gas be detect at the scene ; however , it be not the odourised supply that flow through its network and into people ' s home , but rather odour - free natural gas from a pocket underground . the source of the gas be a 100 metre - deep borehole drill in July in the garden of the property as part of work to install a ground source heat pump , as have be point out . this encounter a pocket of natural gas . follow that , an attempt be make in July to plug the borehole to stop gas flow to the surface , but this work be evidently unsuccessful as subsequently gas continue to leak . after the explosion in October , gas testing of the soil in the area conduct by the British Geological Survey find gas leak to the surface over a wide area , require a 150 - metre safety cordon and the evacuation of the home inside the cordon . follow the explosion , partner have come together to respond to the immediate aftermath , ensure the safety of neighbouring resident , investigate the circumstance of the incident , and put in place a plan to secure the borehole and stop further gas escaping . the site have be the focus of investigation by the Health and Safety Executive to help determine the cause , as well as by Bedfordshire Police in support of the coroner ' s office . additionally , as part of the Government ' s wide response to the tragic event , a number of other specialist agency , such as the British Geological Survey and the Coal Authority , have be essential in support local partner . there have be several public meeting , attend by agency , to ensure that resident be inform about ongoing work and the step be take to make the area safe . to far reassure resident , Bedford borough council be investigate option to install gas monitor in affected home . this will allow for early detection of any early build - up of gas in home . effort have be make to support resident affect by the explosion , with Bedford borough council establish an advice and support centre provide temporary accommodation , emergency financial support , a 24 - hour emergency helpline and free office space at Borough Hall to help resident continue to work . I be conscious that the hon . Gentleman , as the local MP , have play an important role in support resident . key partnership play an important role in such emergency , as I have experience in my own constituency , although they be of a different nature . we understand that resident have face challenge with insurance and I be glad to hear about the work the Association of British Insurers have begin . I be happy to write to it if further assistance be require . resident will also be worry about whether this incident will create blight when they sell their home in the future . local partner be draw on group such as the Coal Authority , which have expertise in work with resident to help develop information that can be provide to insurer , mortgage lender and new purchaser . our expectation be that property value will return relatively quickly to comparable local level . I be aware that such response mean that local partner incur unexpected cost , create additional burden for organisation such as the council . as have be point out , the Government ' s principal mechanism for support cost arise from emergency incident be the Bellwin scheme , which be administer by my Department . Bedford borough council have register an interest in make a claim under the scheme for the combined impact of the gas explosion and early flooding in September , which we will consider as soon as the application come in and official provide advice . the hon . Gentleman raise a number of important question in his speech . I will address some of they ; other , as he understand , be the subject of ongoing investigation . first , in response to his important point about advice on the safe return of resident to their property , the safety of resident be paramount . partner be work together , take into account the technical advice on risk mitigation and the assurance that will support the return of resident to their home , include the use of gas monitoring system . the hon . Gentleman ' s second point be on an underwritten reassurance . it will be for local partner to determine the condition that would support resident in get back to their home , base on the advice from the technical group advise the strategic co - ordination group . once the investigation have conclude , we will need to look carefully at the lesson that need to be learn , to help avoid a similar situation arise . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about drill a 100 - metre hole in a residential area . we must await the outcome of the Health and Safety Executive and police investigation before take any further action , as we do not know the exact cause of the explosion and the extent of liability or criminality , or what mitigation might be need to prevent something like this happen again . however , he make an important point , and we will need to draw on the lesson once the investigation be over . the hon . Gentleman raise the role of other Departments . we be work closely with the Ground Source Heat Pump Association , which be already review the vertical borehole standard to cover future incident of gas encounter , and I know that a meeting be plan with the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , where the hon . Gentleman can discuss the matter far . the hon . Gentleman raise a number of other issue and I would be very happy to continue the discussion with he about those . follow the outcome of the investigation , it be vital that lesson be learn and that we can be confident about safety and security . I thank the hon . member for North Bedfordshire for this important debate on the tragic event at Cleat Hill and their impact on resident . official in my Department have close relationship with local partner and the local authority . we will continue to work in partnership with those key stakeholder in his constituency , as well as with he . I thank he once again for the debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .