Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Defence Spending what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the Government ' s defence spending plan on Scotland . I be sure that the whole House will wish to pay tribute to the artist Jack Vettriano , who sadly die this week . he be the son of a Methil miner who teach himself to paint , and our country be a little less colourful for his passing . may I express my thank to you , Mr Speaker , and to member throughout the House for the many kind word follow the birth of my daughter Lo ï s ? she be bear at home two hour before the midwife could arrive , so I suppose it could be say that I be deliver for Scotland . a number of member have ask I consistently how I be cope with the tear , snotter and tantrum , but I remind they that I have be on paternity leave , so have not have time to keep up with Scottish National party selection drama . it have be an historic week for our country . I know that the people of Scotland stand with Ukraine , and will recognise the importance of the Government ' s decision to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the Prime Minister ' s leadership on the world stage should be a source of pride for all who value Britain ' s role as a defender of democracy and a partner for european peace . Scotland have never be more ready to play its part in defend the UK and our ally . Scotland ' s world - class defence industry will play a key role in rebuild Britain ' s military capability , and during my visit to Babcock at Rosyth I see at first hand how defence spending benefit Scotland ' s small and medium - sized enterprise . however , investment in Scotland ' s defence SMEs lag far behind that in the rest of the United Kingdom , account for just 2 . 5 % of the total spending of the Ministry of Defence , largely owe to the hostile environment create by the Scottish National party . how be the Secretary of State work with the MOD and Scotland ' s defence industry to unleash Scotland ' s sme and enhance our nation ' s defence capability ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the cross - party support for the Prime Minister ' s action on Ukraine and , indeed , defence . Scotland need all its political leader to stand up proudly for our defence industry . Scotland have lead the UK in defence , and have be home to its nuclear deterrent since the 1960 . I recently host a defence industry roundtable to discuss sector priority and opportunity , and , as part of our Brand Scotland programme , I have discuss those in Norway and south - east Asia . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement of new SME spend target for defence , which will boost access to UK defence investment , unlock new job in the process . do the Secretary of State agree that the SNP ' s reckless pledge to scrap our nuclear deterrent at Faslane threaten our national security at a time of significant international volatility ? the First Minister have say that Trident be of " no tangible or realistic benefit " to our current security challenge . do the Secretary of State share my view that that stance be fundamentally naive , and demonstrate that the SNP can not be trust with Scotland ' s future ? indeed . the First Minister be all over the place on defence . he have suggest that we should increase the of 2 . 5 % of gdp by scrap Trident , but that be already include in the 2 . 5 % , so it would make no difference whatsoever . the SNP be not credible at all when it come to defence in Scotland , and I urge every member of every party in the House to get behind the Prime Minister in our national interest . make work pay Plan what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the policy in the make work pay plan in Scotland . the Employment Rights Bill represent the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation , ban zero - hour contract , end unscrupulous fire and rehire practice , provide day one protection for paternity leave and against unfair dismissal , and improve access to statutory sick pay . with International Women ' s day fast approach , we should remember that it be work woman who will benefit disproportionately from this groundbreaking legislation . that be what change look like , and that be the difference that a Labour Government make . resident throughout my constituency welcome the improvement in worker ’ right , but parent be greatly concerned about the impact of the grow gap in attainment in scottish school between the rich and the poor , and what it mean for their child ' s ability to find their first job . this week I have be inundate with comment from parent who be worried about the recent Audit Scotland report on support for child with additional need ; it be a disgraceful report . can the Minister assure I that she will use whatever influence she have to ensure that the Scottish Government make education a priority ? my hon . friend be right to raise the concern of parent who be worried about how their kid will get good job . the SNP have say that a zero - hour contract be " a positive destination " for a school leaver , but this Labour Government will ban such exploitative contract . labour ' s Budget deliver an extra £ 4 . 9 billion for scottish public service , but after 18 year the SNP still do not see scottish kid as a priority . it should stand aside , and give Scotland the chance of the new direction that it deserve . I thank the Minister for her response , but more importantly I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for set the scene . he have clearly explain the importance of have child , and the importance of their have opportunity . with those opportunity in mind , have the Minister have a chance to discuss with the equivalent Minister in the Northern Ireland Assembly how we can well help our child in Northern Ireland , as she wish to do in Scotland ? I have not have that chance , but I would be delighted to do so . scottish education be , of course , devolve to the SNP Government . SNP Members should think long and hard about the fact that they have claim that it be their no . 1 priority and yet the attainment gap be grow . working - class kid ' education and exam result be explicitly downgrade by the serve First Minister . we would be delighted to partner with anyone across these island who want to increase educational opportunity for our young people . economic Growth what step his Department be take to support economic growth in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Scotland . what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Scotland . the Scotland Office be play a key role in drive economic growth in Scotland , ensure that our new industrial strategy work for Scotland and secure Harland & Wolff ' s future to protect hundred of job in Arnish and Methil , and I lead the cross - Government ministerial taskforce to secure £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund for Grangemouth . over the next 10 year the UK Government will directly invest £ 1 . 4 billion in local growth project in Scotland . from the V & A in Dundee and the town centre of Elgin to a freeport on the Forth and local travel in Paisley , our plan for change will bring growth to every part of Scotland . the formal redundancy consultation process start last week for laboratory and store at the Grangemouth site , with emergency response and other share service consultation also about to start . the redundancy be due to Petroineos serve notice to end share service contract because of the imminent refinery closure . the Prime Minister have announce a support package , guarantee worker ’ income for 18 month . will the Secretary of State reassure the share service worker who be about to lose their job at the Grangemouth site because of the refinery closure that they too will be eligible for the package of income guarantee and for reskille support from Forth Valley college ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue in the House , and for protect worker in his constituency . the UK Government be fully commit to seek a sustainable industrial future for Grangemouth and all its worker . follow the work of the Scotland Office - lead taskforce , the Prime Minister announce that the National Wealth Fund will provide £ 200 million of investment for the Grangemouth site . the UK Government , work with the Scottish Government , be provide a training guarantee for all staff at the refinery to support they into good job , and my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that Unite the Union have welcome the funding and say that the package " safeguard Scotland ' s energy security and deliver the job of the future . " the defence sector contribute £ 3 . 2 billion to the scottish economy , and Scotland ' s contribution keep we all safe . the Prime Minister have announce increase spending in our country , which also mean more investment in Scotland , high industrial production and high income . do the Secretary of State agree that this show the difference a Labour Government make — both south and north of the border ? the Prime Minister be absolutely right when he say that the first responsibility of this Government be to protect our national security and keep our citizen safe . the last time that defence spending be at 2 . 5 % of GDP be under the last Labour Government . Scotland be a leader in the defence industry . just this week , I have the pleasure of visit JFD in Renfrew , which work with the Royal Navy to design , manufacture and operate world - class submarine rescue system . from Babcock and BAE Systems to small business and start - up , I be determined that Scotland lead the way in build our military industrial base . give that the defence sector already support more than 20 , 000 job in Scotland , as well as hundred in Harlow , do the Secretary of State agree that the Government ' s commitment to increase defence spending will also help to grow Scotland ' s economy and create more skilled job ? for year the defence sector in Scotland have be at the forefront of create skilled , well - pay job , despite the SNP ' s refusal to stand up and back UK defence . this week be Scottish Apprenticeship Week , and I hope that those on both side of the House — particularly member from Scotland — will join I in pay tribute to Scotland ' s wonderful defence sector apprentice , who do a great job at not just keep our country safe , but help our economy grow and build the skill base of Scotland ' s future . a proper industrial strategy be key to economic growth , which be why industry have be ask for support for many year . my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme be fail by the Tories , and the people of Scotland have be fail by the SNP since 2007 . can the Minister set out what work the Scotland Office have do to ensure that a new national industrial strategy deliver for Scotland , as well as for the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme ? the Scottish Government and SNP Members seem to think that defend the defence industry be do on Twitter . this Government inherit not just a fiscal crisis but an industrial one , because we have have well over 10 year without a clear industrial strategy . I be pleased recently to meet the chair of the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council , and I welcome my right hon . friend the Business Secretary to Scotland last month to meet business leader at the forefront of Scotland ' s industrial future . this Government have already deliver , among other thing , £ 200 million for Grangemouth , £ 2 . 6 million for the V & A in Dundee , and job security for 300 skilled worker at Harland & Wolff ' s shipyard in Methil and Arnish . just this morning , we announce £ 55 million for the Cromarty Green freeport to expand its capability for float offshore wind . that be the commitment to growth that this Government make to the country . the SNP Government continue to be oppose to nuclear energy , despite the huge economic benefit it would bring to Scotland . we can see that in the job and investment that the Torness power station generate . do the Secretary of State agree with I that invest in nuclear would help bring down bill for our consumer , help the environment and create many more job ? I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman . our nuclear policy in Scotland should allow we to have nuclear power to bring down bill and give we energy security . of course , he be also right that the SNP be against nuclear power in Scotland , but very happy to take the baseload from England . the Scotch whisky industry be central to the economic growth of Scotland , and I be very pleased to hear from the Dispatch Box yesterday that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be not move forward with its consultation on single malt . however , can the Secretary of State explain why we be in that position in the first place ? what discussion be have between DEFRA and the Scotland Office before that consultation be open ? I agree with the hon . Lady about the commitment give by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury at the Dispatch Box yesterday , and I reiterate that the only watering down of whisky in Scotland will be the little bit of water that some put in to taste . the Secretary of State will be well aware of the manifold range of family - own business in Scotland , many of which be very large and trade with multimillion - pound balance sheet every year . the Chancellor ' s move to change the rule on business property relief threaten at good these business be sell off to plcs and at bad their be liquidate to pay their liability to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . what assessment have the Scotland Office make of the potentially catastrophic implication for scottish enterprise of the BPR change in train from the Treasury ? it seem to I that SNP Members decide when they come back to the House in July to defend the Conservative Government ' s economic record . we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole , and when the Chancellor come to the Dispatch Box for the Budget , she have to fill that black hole and end austerity . it be what we promise , and it deliver £ 4 . 9 billion to the scottish budget , which the hon . Gentleman ' s party be intent on spending . this be the key point : SNP Members in this House have object to every single measure in that Budget , but they be very happy to spend the money . if the Secretary of State want to help economic growth in Scotland , I suggest he look at oil and gas . end the licensing of domestic production , which will not make the slight difference to how much we consume , will lead to the loss of ten of thousand of job — 35 , 000 job — and billion of pound in tax revenue , and we will then import oil and gas with high embed emission . the Secretary of State know that that be crazy . he can not say so publicly at the Dispatch Box , but can he use his good office to persuade his fellow Cabinet member that this be not a sensible course for Scotland ? this government back the oil and gas industry in Scotland . we have consistently say that oil and gas will be with we for decade to come , but that sit beside our national mission to get to clean power by 2030 . it be a mission we should all be back not just for the job of the future , but to bring down people ' s bill . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I add my congratulation to those of many other on the birth of the Secretary of State ' s child recently . I read with some interest that the leader of the Scottish Labour party be consider publish a league table to rank the performance of his Scottish Labour mps . I will not ask the Secretary of State to say where he think he may sit in that table , but I will ask about job and the economy , specifically in relation to the energy industry . as a direct result of the eco - zealotry emanating from the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the increase in the energy profit levy , the ban on new licence and the refusal even to defend the issuing of licence to Rosebank and Jackdaw , there will be a reduction in the total economic value of the oil and gas sector of £ 13 billion over the next four year , with 35 , 000 direct job at risk . can the Secretary of State tell the House , as Scotland ' s man in the Cabinet — the man on whom we all rely to make Scotland ' s case and to act in Scotland ' s interest — whether he have make any overture to his beleaguered colleague at the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , or indeed to the Treasury , to stop this madness ? the shadow Secretary of State will know that the Government be work very hard , after the Finch decision and the decision around Rosebank , in term of oil and gas . he ask I to answer the question about where Scottish Labour mps would rank in the table . scottish Labour mp be in the premier league ; he be in the Sunday league . [ interruption . ] as my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) say , there be nothing wrong with Sunday league . just as the Secretary of State and Scottish Labour be silent on gender recognition , and just as he and Scottish Labour be silent on tax family business and farm out of existence , he and Scottish Labour be silent on the loss of an entire industry and its workforce , which will decimate the north - east of Scotland and impact the entire UK economy . if he and his scottish Labour colleague be not stand up for Scotland ' s interest , scottish worker and scottish industry , can he tell I just what be the point of Scottish Labour ? this Government be fully commit to economic growth . as I have say , the Prime Minister have say and the Chancellor have consistently say , oil and gas will be with we for decade to come . we support the industry . we be work through the issue that have arise from the legal case the shadow Secretary of State reference . our clean power mission by 2030 will create job , create economic growth , low bill , and give we energy security for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . if economic growth in Scotland be to succeed , our world - class university — the knowledge , the skill and the job they provide — will be absolutely vital . last week , Edinburgh University announce that it face a £ 140 million deficit , which be project to be the large in the UK . that be hugely concern for my constituent and I be sure also for the Secretary of State . the principal cite several issue , include the national insurance change . this morning , visit university tell scottish mp that they also have fund concern . they cite the immigration law in this country as a disincentive . what be the Government go to do to stop further damage to this vital sector inhibit economic growth ? scottish university punch above their weight internationally . they be one of the jewel in the crown of the scottish economy , and of the Scottish and UK education system . of course , Edinburgh University be the good university in the world — the House would expect I to say that as the MP in Edinburgh and as an alumnus . let we not hide from the fact — I say this gently to the hon . Lady — that part of the big funding challenge for the university be the lack of funding from the Scottish Government , because high education be devolve . I will follow that up by very gently say again that she say she do not want anything in the Budget that raise fund , but she want to spend it . I join other in congratulate the Secretary of State on the birth of his daughter . that be one gain from Labour that even the SNP can endorse ! one of the most important area that business have identify for growth be a more Scotland - specific approach to migration . that be tout by Scottish Labour in its manifesto and by its leader , but it be shoot down by the UK Government in no time at all , go the same way as the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , child poverty commitment and the winter fuel payment commitment . if the UK Government will not listen to Scotland ' s Labour leader , why should anybody else ? I be very surprised the hon . Gentleman do not take the opportunity to apologise for his Twitter ranting at the weekend on foreign policy with regard to the Prime Minister . he say : " the UK have leave itself in an utterly isolate position . " I think the hon . Gentleman leave himself in an utterly isolate position . this Government be completely committed to economic growth and to transform life in Scotland . we be already see the fruit of that in the scottish context . I ask the SNP either to get behind that , or to give Scotland a new direction and get out of the way . if the Secretary of State have bother to read in more depth , he would have see that I be say something that he once agree with : leave the EU have leave we more isolated . he once agree with I about that , before he go into government — but then , he agree with I on other thing before he go into government , such as tackle fuel poverty and tackle child poverty . be the Secretary of State no long worried about those issue and more worried about league table ? be he more worried about be in the relegation zone ? do you know what be really interesting , Mr Speaker ? throughout all of this , not once have he stand up for his leader . that make I think that we should not listen to his leader — because Labour Members be not listen to their leader any more . sorry , Mr Speaker . I lose the thread of that question about halfway through , but one thing I do take from it be that it be absolutely identical to the question from the Tory shadow Secretary of State . that tell you all you need to know . Employer National Insurance Contributions what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on level of employment in Scotland . economic growth be the Government ' s no . 1 mission . these change to national insurance contribution be be make in the context of a resilient labour market , with the estimate employment rate up 0 . 9 percentage point over the last quarter of 2024 . we be create job and opportunity through our plan for change and truly make work pay , to help raise living standard right across the UK . the Labour Government ' s decision to hike national insurance be a cost on business before they even open their door . I have speak to many business across my constituency in recent month , and all have say how worried they be about the change . in response to my recent business survey , one large business say that it be now look to cut up to 25 job because of the nic change , and that it be beyond belief that the Labour Government have decide to do this . give that this example will be replicate in constituency across Scotland , include the Minister ' s , can she really stand at the Dispatch Box and say she believe in this policy , which so directly hit job , employment and growth across Scotland ? I do believe in this policy , in the same way I believe in all the announcement we make in the Budget . as be so often the case with Conservative Members , they will the end of the Budget but not the mean . if the hon . Lady want change to the public service that people in both our constituency rely on , we need to have the revenue to pay for they . that be what this Budget be all about : clean up the mess we inherit and get the investment into public service that be so desperately require . as we know , one of the good way to grow employment in Scotland be through apprenticeship . a few week ago , this UK Labour Government announce change to apprenticeship in England that will allow business to work more closely with college and other skill provider to ensure there be a job at the end of apprenticeship . in Scotland , meanwhile , all we see be stagnation in skill policy , which be reduce opportunity for young people in my constituency and across the country . will the Minister make every effort to press the Scottish Government to properly reform apprenticeship in Scotland and give young people and other the opportunity they need and deserve ? I certainly will . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all he do to promote apprentice and skill , and particularly apprentice in our defence industry , who be do so much to keep Scotland , the UK and , indeed , the world safe . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State say that the question just ask be similar . well , we do not get an answer on either of our two attempt , so I might try on farming . Scotland ' s beef sector be at the heart of scottish agriculture , with 80 % of the country ' s agricultural land graze land , yet domestic beef production level be set to reduce by 5 % , with a 12 % increase in import expect to meet our forecast demand . it be clear that this Government ' s tax change could not come at a bad time for Scotland ' s farmer . will the Minister please stand up for Scotland ' s farmer and make the case to stop this madness ? the hon . Gentleman be perfectly aware that 73 % of agricultural property relief claim each year be for less than £ 1 million , so almost three quarter of those claim the relief be expect to be entirely unaffected . accord to the late datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , 40 % of APR be claim by just 7 % of estate make claim , mean that just 117 estate across the UK be claim more than £ 200 million in relief in 2021 - 22 . farmer will still be able to pass down their farm to future generation , just as they always have do . employer nic : business what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on business in Scotland . properly fund public service and restore economic stability require difficult decision on tax , which be why we be ask employer to contribute more . stabilise the public finance be the only way to create the long - term stability in which business can thrive . the Government recognise the need to protect the small business , which be why we have more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that more than half of small business will either gain or be unaffected . a constituent have tell I about one of their client , which be a care home owner that be face an increase in operating cost of £ 70 , 000 a year as a result of the national insurance contribution increase . Most of the business ' s care staff work part time , which suit their family circumstance . however , for each part - time member of staff , the business must pay an additional £ 615 a year as a result of the change to the national insurance contribution threshold in the Government ' s October Budget . in Mid Dunbartonshire , and across the UK , there be grow demand for social care . what will the Government do to help business in the care sector that have be hit by these increase staffing cost at a time of significant rise ? I be sure that the hon . member , and member across the House , will join I in pay tribute to Scotland ' s social care worker for the incredible contribution they make . social care be of course a devolved matter . the Scottish Government have now receive the large budget settlement in the whole history of devolution , as well as support for additional employer national insurance cost . the Scottish Government can choose to deliver that additional support for social care , and I very much hope that they do so . the impact of net change in the Budget be £ 5 . 2 billion more for Scotland . that be record funding to invest in our NHS , protect the success of devolution and fix our local service , but the Scottish Government have squander the latter opportunity by continue to underfund our council , leave Falkirk council with a £ 28 million hole to plug after eight year of SNP control . do the Minister agree that the £ 5 . 2 billion secure for Scotland by the Labour Government could have be use to fix local government , but instead the SNP have choose to leave the people of Falkirk to pick up the bill ? not only do I agree with my hon . friend that the SNP Government be at risk of squander this historic opportunity for Scotland , but I stress that the SNP Government might like to ask their member of Parliament why they vote against this historic Budget in Scotland ' s interest . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 5 March . tomorrow mark 13 year since six young british soldier be on patrol in Afghanistan when their vehicle be strike by an explosive , tragically kill they all . Sergeant Nigel Coupe be 33 , Corporal Jake Hartley be 20 , Private Anthony Frampton be 20 , Private Daniel Wade be 20 , private Daniel Wilford be 21 , and private Christopher Kershaw be just 19 , a teenager . tomorrow also mark the 18th anniversary of the death of Benjamin Reddy , a 22 - year - old serve with 42 Commando Royal Marines , who be kill in Helmand Province in 2007 . these man fight and die for their country — our country . across the war in Afghanistan and Iraq , 642 individual die fight for Britain alongside our ally . many more be wound . we will never forget their bravery and their sacrifice . I know that the whole House will join with I in remember they and all those who serve our country . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . the Prime Minister have rightly make growth his key mission , but can he outline for my constituent in Southampton Test how our Employment Rights Bill will not only deliver improvement for they , but put more money in their pocket as part of our plan for change ? I thank my hon . friend , who be do a fantastic job for her constituent . the Employment Rights Bill be the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation and will benefit more than 10 million worker in every corner of the country . it will tackle low pay , poor condition and poor job security that hold our country back . it be pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth . I call the Leader of the Opposition . division between Ukraine and the US only serve Vladimir Putin . President Zelensky be right to try to rebuild his relationship with President Trump . he be keep a cool head under very difficult circumstance , and I be glad to see President Trump receive his letter positively . what be the Prime Minister do to help rebuild their relationship after a challenging week ? the right hon . member be absolutely right : we need to do everything we can to ensure that the US , Europe and Ukraine be work together on last peace . I be do everything that I can to play my part in that , and I be in regular contact with all of the key player at the moment , include talk to President Zelensky yesterday afternoon . I thank the Prime Minister for that answer . all of we in this House know that the british armed force be a huge source of pride to our country . they put themselves in harm ' s way to defend our value . as the opposition , we support effort to resolve the conflict , but we can not write a blank cheque . if british peacekeeping troop in Ukraine be attack — whether directly or via proxy — we could be draw into conflict with Russia . can the Prime Minister reassure all those who be concerned about the UK be draw into war ? yes ; that be the last thing anybody want to see . the whole point of ensure that there be a last peace , and that any deal — if there be a deal — be defend , be to avoid conflict so that we do have peace . the way to ensure that we have peace be to ensure that there be guarantee for any deal that be in place , because the sure risk that there will be conflict be if Putin think that he can breach any deal that may be arrive at . the Prime Minister be quite right , and we on the Opposition side of the House agree with he . the objective for his visit to Washington be to get that US security guarantee for Ukraine , and I commend his effort in that very difficult task . none the less , on Monday the United States withdraw military aid for Ukraine . can he update the House on the step he be take to persuade America that it be also in its national interest to provide a security guarantee ? I be pleased to inform the House that on Thursday of last week we do discuss security guarantee . the President make absolutely clear his commitment to article 5 of NATO , make absolutely clear that he would have our back because of the relationship between our party , and agree that our team would sit down together to talk through security guarantee . I have speak to he , I think , three time since then on the telephone , because it be vitally important that we work with the US , with Europe and with Ukraine and ensure that if there be a deal , it have proper security guarantee in place . I know that the Prime Minister be unable to comment on specific intelligence matter , and I be certainly not ask he to do that . however , there be concern report that the United States have instruct Britain to suspend intelligence sharing with Ukraine , and there be other report that five eye itself may be at risk . we need to ensure that America do not disengage . there be some in the House who argue that Europe should go it alone , but do he agree with I that without this country ' s great ally , any peace agreement would place a terrible burden on Britain and our taxpayer ? I agree wholeheartedly . that be why , as in the debate we have just two day ago , I have always be clear that we need to ensure that the US , the UK , Europe and Ukraine be work together , but we must not choose between the US and Europe ; we never have historically , and we be not go to do so now . I thank the Prime Minister for his comment on that . he will know that it be not just the security situation that worry people ; they be also concerned about trade war and the economic impact of tariff such as those level on Canada and Mexico yesterday . the good way to avoid America put tariff on Britain be to reach agreement on a trade deal . follow the Prime Minister ' s trip to Washington , have talk on a UK - US trade deal begin ? I be pleased that in the meeting last week we do discuss an economic deal and agree that our team would indeed sit down rapidly to talk through a deal . that be what they be do . as the right hon . Lady rightly say , that be far well than get draw into conflict in relation to tariff . I be glad that the Prime Minister have confirm that those talk have start . People across our country be worried — worry about national security ; worry about whether we can equip our military fast enough ; and worry about whether we will deploy troop in Ukraine , and whether we will be able to keep the peace . they be also worried about our economic security — can we afford all this ? the world be change fast and we need an entirely new approach to our economy and our energy security . the Budget last year halt growth with high taxis and high borrowing . yesterday , farmer be protest in Whitehall again . People be hurt . will the Prime Minister now change course so we can have the economic security that we know we need for our national security ? we be do so well . [ laughter . ] what we inherit be insecurity in our economy . we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole , and we have now turn that around . we have get the high investment come into our economy . we have get wage high than price , and interest rate have be cut three time . that be the difference between stability with labour and instability with the conservative party . I commend the Prime Minister for the decisive leadership that he have show in Europe and at home to bolster our collective security . the £ 13 . 4 billion increase in defence spending have be very much welcome in my constituency . will the Prime Minister outline how that increase in defence spending will boost job and growth in place such as Stevenage , and will he join I in visit some of my constituency ' s business ? our plan for change be build on national security and that have to go hand in hand with economic security . as we return to 2 . 5 % for the first time since the last Labour Government , that investment must mean UK skill , UK job and UK apprenticeship . I be very pleased that on Monday we be able to announce a new hub and new spending target to help 12 , 000 small and medium - sized enterprise access the supply chain , which will boost economic growth . that will be really important in so many constituency — and of course I will consider my hon . friend ' s invitation . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . yesterday I visit Kingston ' s Army Reserve centre and meet member of the Royal Army Medical Service who have serve bravely in Iraq and Afghanistan , so I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s initial remark . on Monday the Prime Minister rightly say that a mineral deal only be not a sufficient security guarantee for Ukraine . the Trump Administration have since say that a mineral deal be the only guarantee on the table , and President Trump have remove military aid from Ukraine and say that the British can not share american intelligence with Kyiv . both those decision mean that more brave Ukrainians will die , while far embolden Vladimir Putin . will the Prime Minister tell the House whether he still believe that President Trump be a reliable ally ? if Ukraine do not get a sufficient security guarantee from the White House , what be the Prime Minister ' s plan b ? we work very closely with the United States on defence , security and intelligence , as we have do for many , many year ; we be intertwine , and of course they be a reliable ally . we be operate on that basis day in , day out across the world , as the right hon . Gentleman know . in relation to the situation as it develop , obviously our only focus be on a last peace in Ukraine . there be many move part and there be many discussion to be have . what I be do be stay focused on what I think be the single most important outcome : a last peace in Ukraine , which be good for Ukraine and for Europe and , of course , essential for the United Kingdom . the Prime Minister know that we all support he in that effort , but may I take he back to President Trump ' s reliability ? four british woman have accuse Andrew Tate of rape and human trafficking . british police have issue arrest warrant . the Tates have try to escape justice , first to Romania and now to the United States . I be delighted that Florida have , thankfully , open a criminal investigation . do the Prime Minister agree that people who be want by british police for such appalling crime should stand trial in our country ? give his assessment that President Trump really be a reliable ally , will his government request an urgent extradition of the Tate brother ? this be a live issue , as the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate , and therefore I will tread carefully . the principle be absolutely clear : justice must be do in all case , include in this case . but I will not go into the detail because this be a live case , as he know . I be support many parent in Exeter who be struggle to get the support they need for their child within the special educational need and disability system run by Devon county council . one parent tell I that their child be excel , but after undergo major surgery she need additional support to get back into a mainstream school setting . that have not be possible due to the disarray of the SEND system in Devon and that child be now miss out . I welcome the new money go to the system . will the Prime Minister provide an update on Government work that will also reform the SEND system , to ensure that every child in Exeter have the good start in life ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this familiar topic . we inherit a SEND system that fail to meet the need of child and family . that be why we be invest £ 1 billion in SEND , alongside £ 740 million for council to improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school and to ensure that special school can cater for child with the most complex need . we be work closely with partner in Devon to deliver an accelerated progress plan and we have deploy SEND adviser to offer support to the local authority . by cosye up to Putin , Trump be make Europe less safe . we all recognise the need for Europe to adapt . Germany be change its fiscal rule to boost investment in defence and infrastructure and create a € 500 billion fund to strengthen its future . will the Prime Minister please consider a similar approach , focus on strategic investment rather than impose further hardship on the poor through cut to welfare and international aid ? as the right hon . Lady know , it be important that , if we be to increase defence spending as we be , and to have that fully cost and fully fund , we need to put that plan before the House , which be what I do last week . she talk about fiscal rule and funding , but I have to say that it be highly regrettable that Plaid Cymru vote against £ 1 . 6 billion to fund public service in Wales . she need to explain how that help her constituent and the people of Wales . this year mark 40 year since the Swann report expose systemic racism and discrimination in the education system . regrettably , none of its recommendation be recommend . one of the most damning injustice in the report be the misclassification of mainly black child as educationally subnormal , as identify in Steve McQueen ' s BBC documentary . give the historic nature of this and the impact it have on so many , will the Prime Minister consider a public inquiry to provide justice and recompense for those who have be affect ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this really important issue . all child and young people must be treat fairly , and there be no place for hate or prejudice in our education system . I will ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss this far . this week President Trump have end military aid to Ukraine , reportedly ban the UK from share US intelligence with Ukraine and be now seek to lift sanction on Russia to appease Vladimir Putin , a murderous lie dictator . regrettably , it be clear that , for now , the US can no long be rely upon for security and peace in Europe , so will the Prime Minister provide leadership to our ally by urgently make the decision to be the first leader to release seize russian state asset to Ukraine under the established principle of international law , so that Putin must pay , as the aggressor ? on the question of asset , we be use the interest on the asset to help fund Ukraine and we be look , with other , at whether it be possible to go far . obviously , I will update the House if that be possible . but I have to say that , at a time when defence and security in Europe and the UK must be ramp up for all the reason that the hon . Gentleman readily understand , the SNP maintain its position of want to get rid of the single most effective deterrent that we have — the nuclear deterrent — really have to be explain in its historical context . labour be roll out free breakfast club in primary school , start with 750 school include Scapegoat Hill junior and infant school in my constituency . under the Tories , only one in 10 school have these club . labour will make they available for all child . that will help to break down barrier to opportunity for every child . I know that the Prime Minister be as determined as I be to tear away the link between background and success , so will he update the House on how we will do that through Labour ' s plan for change ? Labour promise free breakfast club in every primary school , and the first 750 will open in April , give every child the good start in life through our plan for change . it will also put up to £ 450 a year back in the pocket of work family . I be delighted to say that two of the breakfast club will be open in the constituency of the Leader of the Opposition in April , and I hope she will welcome they when they do . on Monday , the Prime Minister talk about create defence job across the country as we rebuild our defence industrial capacity . will he and the Government bring forward an urgent plan for skill in the defence sector , and do he agree with his Education Secretary that the strategy for defence skill should sit purely under the Department for Education , and not an under - power executive agency ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue , because it be a duty to increase our spending on defence and security , but it also provide an opportunity for job across the country — good job , well - pay job , skilled job , as he rightly identify , and job with a real sense of pride , and we be work on that . my lovely grandad John Henry Richardson pass away in 1998 from work - relate asbestos exposure . today , in South Shields , we have one of the high death rate from this silent killer in the United Kingdom . will the Prime Minister look at introduce a national digital register so that we know where the asbestos be , and commit to a phase removal of it from public building ? I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I say that I be very sorry to hear what happen to my hon . friend ' s grandfather . these be just awful case , and the death be terrible . I have no doubt that he be a wonderful man , and he would have be very proud to have see she in her place today . I will ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister . St Hilda ' s girl school look set to join Immanuel jewish prep as the second school in Bushey alone force to close because of labour ' s vat hike . that be a double hit to aspiration — first , to those of the parent , many of whom be not wealthy and who have describe the significant sacrifice they have make to send their child to these school ; and secondly , it affect the excellent local state school , include the one that I attend , which simply do not have the place , mean that this policy will not even save money . may I therefore urge the Prime Minister , even at this late stage , to look again at the failure of this policy ? I do not doubt the aspiration of all parent for their child . what we have be able to do be ensure that we release the funding to ensure that our state secondary school have the teacher they need . there be no point the Conservatives pretend that they be interested in state education when they leave they without the teacher they need . that be a lie ! order . I presume something be say that should not have be say . I be sure the Member would like to withdraw what be say , if they have anything about they . withdraw . forty - eight child that we know of have be kill by know domestically abusive parent during court - permit contact visit , include Paul and Jack Sykes , who be tragically murder at the hand of their father in a house fire . their mother , and my constituent , Claire Throssell have campaign against the presumption of contact , which allow such abuser to have unsupervised contact with their child . will the Prime Minister meet Claire and I to discuss the urgent need to remove the presumption of contact in law ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , and to my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , who have both raise this critical issue . I particularly pay tribute to Claire . her courage and strength be outstanding . family court must never be a tool that domestic abuser can use to continue their appalling abuse . we be expand a number of Pathfinder court to protect the welfare of child and be review the presumption of involvement that she raise . Daniel Coffey from Cullompton lose his life while serve in Iraq . his grandfather say yesterday that Vice - President J . d . vance " should have a lot more respect for those who lose their life " in response to Vance ' s comment about " some random country that hasn ' t fight a war in 30 or 40 year " . will the pm gently remind the US Government that the UK be there for the US follow the 9 / 11 attack when Lord Robertson invoke article 5 , we be there for the US for the intervention in Iraq , and that they might remember our long - stand friendship when we think about security guarantee for Ukraine ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that — I know that he speak for the whole House . we remember the role that we have play historically with our ally , and we remember in particular those who make the ultimate sacrifice in that duty for their country and for our ally . that be why it be so important that we make that point today . Meur ras ha gool Peran lowen — happy St Piran ' s day — to the hundred of thousand of people in Cornwall and around the world who be celebrate it today . will the Prime Minister confirm our Government ' s commitment to national minority status for Cornwall , and will he join I in wish Cornish folk the world over a very happy St Piran ' s day ? yes , let I wish my hon . friend , his constituent and everyone in Cornwall a very happy St Piran ' s day . we do recognise Cornish national minority status — not just the proud language , history and culture of Cornwall , but its bright future . I know that he and cornish colleague will continue to be powerful voice for Cornwall . four week ago , the Northern Ireland coroner accuse british soldier of unlawful killing after they engage with IRA would - be murderer . after careful reading , as far as I can see , that judgment be base on no evidence whatsoever . More than 100 special force soldier have be summon before those inquiry ; not one IRA leader have be summon in the same way . soldier who serve our country with honour , heroism and skill be be punish in their decline year for do nothing but carry out their patriotic duty in the face of enormous risk . give how the Prime Minister open his comment , with which I associate myself , do he not think that he and his Government have a duty to protect those soldier from such partisan parody of justice in their decline year ? on the coroner ' s ruling , I have not see the detail , I be afraid , so I can not comment . on the broad point , it be right that we should protect those who serve our country , wherever they serve our country — get the balance right be critical . I do not think that the legislation put forward by the Conservative Government achieve that , but I believe none the less that , in the interest of everybody in Northern Ireland , of all those who serve and all those who be victim , we need to renew our effort to find a way forward on this important issue . my constituent in Hastings , Rye and the village be feed up with the constant failure of Southern Water : dump sewage in our sea , flooding , and leave we without water for day — all while take huge bonus . we on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have be haul in the water boss one by one and hear about their failure . the boss of Southern Water finally agree to give my constituent million in compensation for a major water outage . will the Prime Minister tell I how the Labour Government be crack down on the bad behaviour of the water industry ? I applaud my hon . friend for her dedicated work on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and in her constituency . last week , our Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 become law . it give new power to ban the payment of bonus for pollute water boss and bring criminal charge against lawbreaker . we be determined to fix our break water system after year of company pump sewage into our waterway and infrastructure not keep pace with demand . I pay tribute to the Prime Minister for his effort to bring Europe together to ensure that we work to restore peace in Ukraine . the war in Ukraine have also demonstrate the need for great food security and strong supply chain , but if the Government force our farmer to sell their land because of the divisive family farm tax , they will undermine that . ahead of the spring statement , will he think that policy through again and seek to end it ? national security need food security , farming and farmer . we put a record amount into farming in the Budget — £ 5 billion . we have set out our road map for farming , which have be welcome by the National Farmers Union . as the right hon . Lady know , the vast majority of farm will not be affect by the provision that we be put in place . for month , my constituent in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme have be tell I how feed up they be with not be able to get an appointment because of the 8 am scramble . the last thing they need when they be ill be to have to pick up the phone and wait , and fight again to be first . it be great news that the Government ' s new GP contract will start to resolve that , but can the Prime Minister reassure my constituent who can not use technology that they will still be able to book an appointment ? last week , for the first time in four year , the British Medical Association agree the GP contract with the Government , worth an extra £ 889 million . patient will be able to request appointment online from October , but I absolutely reassure my hon . friend and other that that will free up the phone for those who need they most , and help end the 8 am scramble . under his Labour Government , do the Prime Minister believe that the UK ' s estimate 3 million millionaire should contribute more to our vital national security , or be it just the world ' s poor , by no long benefit from our international aid programme , or the shameful almost 6 million child live in poverty in this country who should pay for it ? what happen to the wealth tax , Prime Minister ? I think all should , and all do , make a contribution at this vital time . these be delicate moment for the country , and the Prime Minister have lead with british value , moral courage and decency , as a true statesman , and with skilled and careful diplomacy . all elect politician in this House must appreciate that everything we say could impact that diplomacy , so do the Prime Minister agree that a united House could help we to achieve a last peace ? let I broaden out my hon . friend ' s word to the whole House , because it be hugely to the credit of this House that it be speak loudly , in a united way and with one voice in the face of russian aggression . that be why we must have last peace base on the sovereignty and security of Ukraine , but it certainly help all those observe across the world to see this House speak powerfully and with one voice , unite across these Benches . I be pleased that we be able to continue in that way . the scottish fishing industry , by volume and value , be the big in these island , and in my constituency the port town of Peterhead and Fraserburgh represent a large share of that industry in term of land catch and processing . I be sure that the Prime Minister enjoy the occasional fish supper , so do he agree that the interest and future of that industry must be secure and enhance , as the Government pursue economic growth and reset their relationship with the European Union , especially through the forthcoming trade and co - operation agreement negotiation , so that the job of people who work in that sector can never be make expendable for the sake of some other interest ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue . I recognise the huge and historic importance of the fishing industry in his constituency , and other , and I be determined to make the sector more secure , sustainable and economically successful . we have already secure over 720 , 000 tonne of fishing quota for the year , worth up to £ 920 million , include through agreement with the EU and Norway . we also want to tackle the problem of labour shortage , which he will be familiar with . I be pleased that his constituent in Peterhead will benefit from £ 20 million under our plan for neighbourhood , and we will do everything we can in relation to that issue . Medway Maritime hospital in my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham have today receive a concern Care Quality Commission report , follow an inspection of the emergency department in February last year . testimony include patient have to wait up to 50 hour to be see , and other be tell to soil themselves because staff be not available to take they to the bathroom . will the Prime Minister please outline what this government will do urgently to tackle the crisis in our NHS , after 14 year of Tory mismanagement ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this case . her constituent deserve the high standard of care . the Conservatives leave the NHS in dire strait . we be invest £ 26 billion and our reform plan will cut waiting list . I be really pleased to say that waiting list be down and we have deliver over 2 million extra appointment to get the NHS back on its foot . marriage between first cousin carry significant health issue for their child , many of which be not knowable until post - birth . when practise generation after generation , there be a significant multipli effect . in addition , the real impact on the openness of our society and woman ' s right in our country be significant . after all , there be significant dynamic in share the same set of grandparent . on Friday , this Government have the choice to let my Bill to ban first cousin marriage go through to Committee stage . will the Prime Minister think again before instruct his whip to block this legislation ? Mr Speaker , we have take our position on that Bill . court and Tribunals : sit day with permission , I will make a statement on capacity in the Crown court . when this Government take office eight month ago , we receive an inheritance from the Conservative Government that be little short of disgraceful : our prison be in crisis , on the edge of collapse , and our court face a record and rise backlog . while the crisis in our prison be more obvious and visible , the harm cause by the backlog in our court can not be overestimate . today , the backlog stand at over 73 , 000 case . just five year early , it have be half that figure . we should stop and consider that fact , because the backlog be far more than a number . behind each case be a victim . many have wait year for justice and some will now not have their case hear until 2028 . with delay that long , it be little wonder that more victim be drop out , and tragically that be true of victim of the most heinous crime . just five year ago , around 3 % of adult rape victim whose case be due to go to trial drop out before their case be hear . today , that figure have more than double . an old adage have sadly come true in this country : for far too many , justice delay be justice deny . unlike our predecessor , who allow this backlog to rise and rise , this Government will bear down on it . we will deliver swifter justice for the victim of crime . that start today with a record investment in our criminal court . each financial year , the Government determine the total number of day that can be sit across all our court and tribunal , commonly refer to as sit day . this process be call the concordat . last year , I commit to conclude the process early than in previous year to give our court great certainty . we have now do so , several month ahead of last year ' s settlement , so today I can announce that the Government will provide a total budget of £ 2 . 5 billion for our court and tribunal in the next financial year . that represent a record level of investment , which will fund up to 110 , 000 sitting day in our Crown court — 4 , 000 more day than the previous Government fund last year . if the shadow Lord Chancellor would like to check the record book , he will find no high allocation in record history . beyond the Crown court , investment in the family and civil court bring those jurisdiction to , or close to , their maximum capacity , and the investment in court capacity be match by an investment in court maintenance . our court have be allow to fall into a shocking state of disrepair in recent year , so this Government will boost funding to £ 148 . 5 million , up from £ 128 million last year . that will be the high figure spend on maintenance and capital work in the last 10 year , build on a consistent theme of this new Government , and it be a marked difference when compare with our predecessor . in our first eight month in office , we have consistently invest more in the court than the last Conservative Government . on enter office , I immediately fund 500 sit day on top of the allocation provide by the previous Lord Chancellor . at the end of last year , when resource allow , I add a further 2 , 000 sitting day . in October , this Government also increase the sentencing power of magistrate court ; previously , they could impose only a six - month prison sentence , which we lift to 12 month . in do so , we free up capacity in the Crown court to hear the most serious case . that single change be equivalent to add another 2 , 000 sitting day in our Crown court . all those change be necessary for the swift delivery of justice . however , I must be honest , in a way that my predecessor never be : this investment be necessary , but it be not sufficient to reduce the Crown court backlog . even with record level of funding , if we do not take other , bold measure , the backlog will grow . with a grow number of case enter our court and case of increase complexity be hear in front of our judge , we can not simply do more of the same : we must do thing differently . in December , I appoint Sir Brian Leveson , one of our most distinguished judge , to conduct a wholesale review of our criminal court . the review will propose long - term reform as well as review the efficiency and timeliness of court process from charge all the way through to case completion . crucially , I have also ask Sir Brian to address something that too many other have avoid : the question of structural reform . today , 10 % of criminal case be hear in a Crown court , where a judge preside and a jury decide . jury trial be a pillar of our justice system for the most serious offence , and that will never change . however , we must ask ourselves whether they be hear case that could be handle equally well elsewhere . some case can already be hear in either a Crown court or a magistrate court , which we call " triable either way " case . those represent 40 % of the court backlog , but while a conviction — whether determine by a jury or a magistrate — be the same regardless of the type of courtroom , the demand that it place on our justice system be very different indeed . an either - way case be resolve by magistrate five time fast than before a judge and jury . justice must be do and criminal must always face consequence — on that , I know this House will agree — but we must be willing to ask whether a judge and jury should be occupy , at great length and expense , with crime that could be deal with more swiftly elsewhere . for that reason , I have ask Sir Brian to consider the case for reclassify some less serious offence , whether magistrate ' sentence power be sufficient and the case for a new court to sit between the magistrate court and the Crown court . his recommendation will come later this spring . his goal and mine be one : to bear down on the backlog and deliver swifter justice for victim . the consequence of fail to do so be all too clear — the backlog in the criminal court will rise , case will be list even far into the future , and more victim of crime will decide that the wait be too painful with justice so distant , and as a result , dangerous criminal will walk free . today , we have announce a record investment in our court : 110 , 000 sitting day fund , which be 4 , 000 more than the previous Administration fund . for many victim , their case will be hear soon , but if we be to deliver swifter justice for all , we must embrace reform . this government will deliver once - in - a - generation reform of our court , and we will reverse the decline and the delay of the last Conservative Government . I commend this statement to the House . I can always help by reopen Chorley court for you . I call the shadow Lord Chancellor . it be great to see the Justice Secretary back in the country after her holiday in Texas . if she can find time to travel to America , why can she not find time to travel to the two category a prison — [ interruption . ] I will be pleased to hear from the right hon . Lady if that be the case . that be not the answer to our write parliamentary question the other day . today , the central criminal court have 13 courtroom sit empty . in Preston , 40 % of courtroom sit empty , and in Winchester the figure be two third . that be a result of the court backlog , which have grow under this Justice Secretary . we need to be maximise court capacity , take full advantage of all available day and probe the judiciary for option to create more capacity . I know that , and I would like to believe that the right hon . Lady know that , but how do we get here ? we get here because , just like in every other area , this Labour Government come into office with no plan whatsoever , and they have waste their first eight month in office . upon the Justice Secretary enter office , the Lady Chief Justice inform she that there be at least 6 , 500 sit day available to address the court backlog . the Justice Secretary respond by add a measly 500 sitting day , and the court backlog keep grow . so frustrated be the Lady Chief Justice that she come to Parliament in November and take the unusual step of publicly chastise the Justice Secretary , and reiterate her offer of 6 , 500 sit day . the Justice Secretary respond a month later by add 2 , 000 sitting day , and the court backlog keep grow . here we be again , eight month on from the Justice Secretary take office and on the very day that the Public Accounts Committee have publish an excoriate report into her Department , with her promise more sitting day . be it third time lucky for the Justice Secretary ? no . what we have learn again today be that she be still turn down available sitting day , and astonishingly , she have concede that the court backlog will keep on rise . that be simply not acceptable . of course , I welcome the change make by the Justice Secretary , but they be not enough . she say that victim will get quick justice — tell that to the victim of rape who be have their court case list for 2028 . [ interruption . ] order . please , I need to be able to hear the shadow Lord Chancellor , and when Government Front Benchers shout for so long , I can not hear . I will decide whether a statement be in order or not — be we understand each other ? I do not pretend that cut the court backlog be easy , or that it will be quick , but the Justice Secretary owe the country a plan and a timetable for when that backlog be actually go to fall . this morning , she be repeatedly ask that question , but refuse to give an answer . can she tell the country now when the court backlog will begin to fall , by what date her Department have forecast it fall , and why she will not take up the 2 , 500 additional sitting day offer time and time again by the Lady Chief Justice ? lastly , the new sentencing guideline publish alongside this statement will make a custodial sentence less likely for those " from an ethnic minority , cultural minority , and / or faith minority community " . why be the Justice Secretary enshrine this double standard — this two - tier approach to sentencing ? it be an inversion of the rule of law . conservative Members believe in equality under the law ; why do she not ? the shadow Secretary of State ask , " how do we get here ? " I will tell he how we get here — his Administration and the 14 year they have in power , and the absolute mess they make of the criminal justice system ; a mess that this Government be clear up . I be sorry to deprive he of what I be sure he think be a clever attack line on my recent visit to Texas , but I can inform he that I have in fact visit HM Prison Manchester . I do so during the February recess . [ interruption . ] order . as I say to member on the Government Benches , I do need to hear . the right hon . Gentleman should welcome our seeking to learn from a tough law and order state in America , which 20 year ago have the same problem that we inherit from his Administration , and which have embark on criminal justice reform that have see reoffende at a level that we could only dream of in this country . he should seek to learn from other country , as we be . if his Government have do so when they be in power , we would not have such a big mess to clear up in the criminal justice system . the right hon . Gentleman refer to courtroom sit empty ; one reason why be that one of his government ' s last act on leave office be to fund only 106 , 000 sitting day . I have lift that number , and today the number of Crown court sitting day be at a record high , fund by this Labour Government . More courtroom will be put to use . he will also know that to run the system efficiently , the normal practice be that some courtroom will not be in use to cope with the flux in demand . however , as a result of today ' s decision , more courtroom will be in use than be ever the case under his Administration . the right hon . Gentleman ask what I have be do and what be the plan . when I come into office , the first thing I do be immediately to increase the number of sit day by 500 , up from 106 , 000 when his government leave office . I then make a further allocation and increase that again by 2 , 000 before Christmas — make progress on the Crown court backlog and pick up the piece of the mess that his government leave behind . he will know that the change that I make to magistrate court sentencing power have also free up capacity in the Crown court . we have increase funding for criminal legal aid by £ 92 million so that we have the money to underpin the system . that be action . that be an increase in sit day in - year and an unprecedented increase in sit day for next year . that be what this Labour Government be deliver . the right hon . Gentleman will also know that even if we be sit at the maximum judicial capacity — he rightly refer to that , as do the Lady Chief Justice in Parliament — that backlog would still rise , because the demand in the system be fast outstrip the pace at which case be be dispose of . know that , it would be unconscionable if I stand before this House and behave as if resource alone would fix the problem . that be why Sir Brian Leveson be consider once - in - a - generation reform of our Crown court . the combination of the step that I have already take , the funding that I have allocate and the review that will lead to once - in - a - generation reform — that be what a plan look like to fix the mess that the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government leave behind . it be a plan that they could have have in place when they be in government , but they fail to do so , and now they carp from the sideline when someone else be get on with the job . finally , as somebody from an ethnic minority background , I do not stand for any differential treatment before the law for anyone . there will never be a two - tier sentencing approach under my watch or under this Labour Government . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on the figure that she have announce and on start to get to grip with her baleful inheritance . however , there be a long way to go . the Lady Chief Justice tell the Lords Constitution Committee last week that she be press for Crown court to sit to capacity . do the 110 , 000 figure represent capacity ? if not , what be capacity ? give that the backlog be 73 , 000 case and rise , will the Lord Chancellor guarantee sit day up to capacity for the whole of the come year ? in her statement , she rightly promise investment in the family and civil court to bring those jurisdiction to , or close to , maximum capacity . will she make the same commitment for the Crown court ? my hon . friend will know that there be a difference between system capacity and maximum judicial capacity . he be right that the Lady Chief Justice have say that the maximum judicial capacity be 113 , 000 sitting day in the Crown court . we be fund 110 , 000 sitting day there , because in my role as Lord Chancellor , I must be mindful of manage the wide system capacity — the availability not just of judge to sit in the Crown court but of the lawyer , prosecutor , legal aid and defence barrister that underpin the rest of the system . I be confident that the 110 , 000 sitting day represent the system capacity , and that be be deliver . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . ten of thousand of victim and survivor wait for their day in court be one of the dark legacy of the last Conservative Government . I feel that sincerely because , under that Conservative Government , I be one of those victim . after two decade of agonise over whether to report my own victimhood as a child , I wait two year for my own opportunity to seek justice in the Crown court . that be year of your heart race whenever you get a phone call from an unknown number . be it the court ? be it the Crown Prosecution Service ? there be year of anxiety that your perpetrator will retaliate , and year of your life excruciatingly on hold . many victim today be be force to sit with all this for far long than I do . the Liberal Democrats and I personally welcome the Justice Secretary ' s announcement . however , we all know that a huge backlog will remain , which mean that victim and survivor will continue to be let down . at a time when victim and survivor need more support during these agonising wait , government funding cut and national insurance contribution increase be put service such as Safeline and Victim Support at risk . will the Lord Chancellor outline her year by year target for reduce this backlog , and will she increase , not cut , support for charity to ensure that victim and survivor get the support that they need and deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his remark and I pay tribute to he for his bravery in his own personal life , as he have seek justice for the crime commit against he . his journey reflect that of too many people across our country . I have constituent whose case be trap in the Crown court backlog , so I hear regularly of the impact that it be have , and I be alive to the human cost . that be why , at every available opportunity , I have seek to make progress in increase funding and allocation in - year and have make this record settlement for the next year . of course , I know that we need to go far and do more . the work of Sir Brian Leveson be crucial because we know that without reform , no matter how much the Crown court sit , that backlog will still rise . I hope that when that review report , I can count on support for reform from across the House . I hope that all those who want to see the Crown court backlog come down will want that reform . we have ringfence funding for victim of rape and serious sexual offence , as well as domestic abuse . we will shortly set out our victim Bill , which will include further measure to strengthen the victim code . the hon . Gentleman ask about target and timeline — forgive I , the shadow Justice Secretary also raise that point . I have commit to once - in - a - generation reform of our Crown court . once Sir Brian Leveson ' s review have report and the Government have make decision on the recommendation that they will take forward and have legislation ready , we will be able to set out the impact of future legislation to bring down that Crown court backlog . I be absolutely flabbergast by some of the thing that the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say today . I assure he that this backlog have not materialise just over the last eight month . I can say that as a Crown prosecutor who work throughout the 14 year of the last Government and see the waiting list go up and up , despite the good effort of the hard - work staff throughout the criminal justice service . will the Lord Chancellor confirm that the measure that she have announce will finally allow victim , include those in my constituency , to have some confidence that there be finally a Government who will tackle this issue ? " flabbergasted " be one way of describe it , and it be probably the only one that you will find to be in order , Mr Speaker , so I shall refrain from use other language . my hon . friend be a former prosecutor , so she know whereof she speak , and I pay tribute to she for the work that she do in her former profession . the message should go out loud and clear to her constituent , and to people up and down the country , that this Government be act to deal with the Crown court backlog . we have a plan . we have increase funding , and we be consider the reform that be need , and have be duck by too many other , to get the system sort out once and for all . I refer the House to my register voluntary interest . I welcome the statement . do the Lord Chancellor agree that one way of get cash into the criminal justice system be to reduce the cost of the civil system ? may I urge she to continue to consider alternative method of dispute resolution , particularly mediation within the civil system ? the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right . all the mechanism at our disposal to reduce the cost of people go to court should be on the table , and we have already be act to try to amplify the availability of mediation and other way in which issue can be resolve . go to court be always very expensive , sometimes for the individual involve and often for the taxpayer , and it be important that we keep bear down on those cost . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her honesty in set out so clearly the difficult situation that we have inherit from the conservative party , and I welcome the measure that she have propose : the record investment in the justice system , and the measure take to reduce the number of case go to the Crown court . it be get bad . it have get bad , because of the conservative party . do my right hon . friend agree that , as well as focus on the measure that she have already propose , we should continue to focus on reduce crime in the first place , and pursue our policy for tackle youth crime , knife crime and violence against woman and girl ? my hon . friend be right . in order to deal with all the problem in the criminal justice system relate to policing , prosecutor and the situation in the Crown court , we need a system - wide approach . that mean take action on the crime that affect neighbourhood up and down the country , which be why the Home Secretary ' s recent Crime and Policing Bill be such a landmark piece of legislation . we must all play our part , because the criminal justice system have be leave in a truly terrible state by the last Administration , and this Government be get on with the job of sort it out . this announcement be small beer , be it not ? the extra £ 92 million offer for criminal legal aid be exceed twentyfold by the subsidy give to offshore wind , which amount to £ 1 . 9 billion last year alone . why do the Government have such perverse priority , and when will they put the criminal justice system above the interest of offshore wind operator ? we be talk about the high ever fund allocation in the Crown court , and 110 , 000 sitting day , which be a record . the hon . Gentleman say that be small beer ; I wonder whether he have be imbibe something before get to his foot . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s announcement of additional sitting day . the Justice Committee have be look into the court backlog issue , and we have also be hear about the ongoing need for the digitisation of court and wide criminal justice process . we need to replace the creak paper - base system , which be contribute to the delay . will the Lord Chancellor continue to support drive for successful digitisation of those process , and will she also join I in congratulate the conservative party on mark International Women ' s Day in such style ? my hon . friend be right to make that point about digitisation and efficiency . follow the first phase of the spending review , I have fund ongoing work to improve digitisation of all our court process , because , as my hon . friend have say , we need to move away from our current paper - base and paper - heavy system . part 2 of Sir Brian Leveson ' s work , which will produce a report in the autumn , will involve look at cross - system efficiency as well . my hon . friend be right about the need to increase productivity and efficiency , because that will be the final part of the puzzle if we be to sort out the backlog . I welcome the announcement of the extra sitting day , and also the announcement about reform . I hope that the ancient right to trial by jury will remain . Somerset Crown court in Taunton be close in 2023 , after work begin in 2022 because item be fall on people ' s head from the ceiling . we have just be tell that it will be close for another year , during which victim of crime will have to travel ten of mile far . some court user be even sleep under a bush because they can not travel back and forth . we need to get our Crown court open again , so will the Lord Chancellor please consider expedite these work ? I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman have a meeting with the court Minister , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , to discuss the situation in Taunton . I be slightly worried about Conservative Members , who appear to be the arsonist complain that the fire brigade have turn up too late to put out the fire , when they be the one who light it in the first place . I worry that they do not understand the scale and magnitude of the challenge that they leave behind , which I have hear about from constituent who have be wait year for their court case . it be get bad . it be get bad . if the right hon . Gentleman spend more time provide leadership , rather than audition for it , he would own up to his failure in the House , and admit that the Conservatives leave the country in a mess . court be not run just by judge ; there be many support staff in court who make the system work . what cross - governmental conversation have the Lord Chancellor have about ensure that those staff be available , so that as many court as possible be operational ? [ interruption . ] the shadow Lord Chancellor be have such fun with his audition for leadership that it would be a shame to deprive he of it . my hon . friend have say that conservative Members do not understand the mess that they have leave behind , but I wonder whether they simply do not want to understand it . member of a party that be willing to reckon with the mistake it make in office would at least have start with some humility — and , perhaps , an apology for the mess they leave behind . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the need for a whole - system approach . one reason why the backlog be schedule to become bad , no matter how many Crown court sitting day be provide , be the influx of case into the system , which be actually a good thing , because it mean that the police be do their job and prosecution be be bring , but even at maximum capacity , demand be far outstrip the disposal of case . the case mix be more complex , and that require a system - wide response , which the Government be provide . when do the Lord Chancellor expect the additional place to start bear down on the remand population ? the right hon . Gentleman be right : the remand population be grow , and currently stand at 17 , 000 . that have a big impact on prison capacity , which be why I increase magistrate court sentencing power a few month ago , why I have increase the number of Crown court sitting day , and why we have a record allocation next year . the demand come into the system be one of the reason why bear down on remand have be particularly challenging , but we continue to work on it with the judiciary ; listing be , of course , a matter for the independent judiciary . I expect a little more humility from Conservative Members , who leave a legacy of chaos in our prison and a huge court backlog . what we be deal with , fundamentally , be the backlog that they leave behind . my right hon . friend have set out a process for deal with this grow backlog , but ultimately the blame lie at the door of the conservative party , which leave the place in chaos . should we not be hear an apology from conservative member ? sorry do seem to be the hard word for Opposition Members , and I have long since stop wait for that apology . all I would observe — I say this with experience of 14 year of opposition under my belt — be that party that do not acknowledge their mistake and sort themselves out rarely get elect . in welcome the statement , I reserve judgment on whether we need an additional court — an intermediate court — particularly if it will be resource from the exist magistrate and Crown court system . follow on from the question from the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , we have a backlog in England and Northern Ireland , and people be on remand for too long . increasingly , people be be release follow a conviction with time serve , and there be no opportunity whatsoever for rehabilitation . will the opportunity to rehabilitate offender while they be on remand form part of the Brian Leveson review ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise issue relate to remand . we do have a problem with the remand population , which be why I have make the change that I have highlight , and why both review — the one be conduct by Sir Brian Leveson , which look at once - in - a - generation court reform , and the one by David Gauke and the independent panel , which look at sentencing — be so crucial . it be essential that we not only bear down on the Crown court backlog , but get our prison capacity back into balance and have a sustainable prison system in this country . criminal justice be an easy target for Tory austerity cut , which always impact the people with the small voice . rape victim in Truro and Falmouth have tell I that they have wait year for their case to be hear and have hearing cancel at the last minute , so I very much welcome this investment . could I have more detail about the case for a new court that would sit between magistrate court and Crown court , and how that might work ? on the possibility of a court that sit between the magistrate and Crown court , Sir Brian be consider that . my hon . friend will understand why I want to wait until he have make his recommendation , but that be one of a range of way in which we could change policy in order to bear down on the Crown court backlog in the long term . we will consider his recommendation and bring forward legislation for those that we want to take forward in the spring . I absolutely hear what my hon . Friend say about the terrible experience of victim who have their case cancel on the day , and about the impact on rape victim in particular . we have already fulfil our manifesto commitment to have independent legal adviser for victim of rape , so that their right in law be always protect . the Lord Chancellor have be in office for eight month today . although her announcement of additional sitting day be welcome , it be regrettable that she do not make this statement seven month ago . there be only so long that she can blame the last government for the Crown court backlog . we all know that the pandemic be largely responsible for the substantial increase . we know that the Lady Chief Justice have offer the Lord Chancellor a further 2 , 500 sit day . why be she not take advantage of that ? there be currently too many people on remand for too long , and it be clear that even the announcement that she make today will not lead to a reduction in the backlog , so we need structural change . will the Lord Chancellor give serious consideration to the creation of an intermediate court , so that we can reduce the backlog more quickly ? I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that the concordat process , which I have conclude with today ' s announcement , have conclude early than the one that I inherit from his party would have do , so we have be crack on . I have be get on with the job : I increase sit day immediately , I have take every opportunity to increase they far , and I have now make a record allocation . the hon . Gentleman say that the Lady Chief Justice have offer more sitting day , but he will know that she be not able to offer sit day . she be able to comment on maximum judicial capacity , which she have do , as be appropriate . in order to make sure that sit day be possible in the Crown court , I have to consider wide system capacity issue , include the availability of legal aid , prosecutor and defence barrister . we have 110 , 000 Crown court sitting day — an unprecedented , record number — and I can say that there be capacity in the system overall , not just judicial capacity , for those day . yesterday , the Public Accounts Committee publish a report that say that rape and serious sexual offence be take many year to come to trial . when I be a shadow Justice Minister , I ask the previous Government day in , day out from the Dispatch Box about what they be do to reduce the court delay . for 14 year , they do nothing . in eight month , this Lord Chancellor have provide 110 , 000 court sitting day . do she agree that the expression that come to mind be " the pot call the kettle black " ? I can tell my hon . friend that many expression have come to mind as I have be listen to the drivel from some conservative Members — not all of which would not fall foul of " Erskine May " , so I will keep my counsel on that . my hon . friend refer to the Public Accounts Committee report , and I gently observe that I be a long - term member of that Committee . I have the high regard for the Public Accounts Committee , but I reject its criticism , because this government clearly have a plan — not just on funding and resource for the Crown court , but on the reform that will ultimately be need to get the system into balance . despite this announcement , the backlog will increase . when case do go to court , it be important that offender serve the sentence they be give . follow the Lord Chancellor ' s trip to Texas , where some prisoner serve as little as 25 % of their sentence , will she rule out adopt such a soft sentencing policy ? the Texans have similar problem to those we face today , but they have theirs 20 year or so ago . their system of good behaviour credit incentivise offender to engage in rehabilitation activity and to get help for their drug addiction , alcohol problem , mental health issue and so on . if offender engage with that system and get their good behaviour credit , they can earn their way to an early parole hear . it be the definition of a tough system , because it say to offender , " you have to do something good in order to earn the possibility of an early release . " it be a system that be well worth learn from , because the reoffende rate be very low compare with our . one of the prison I visit in Texas have a reoffende rate of 17 % . I dream of that number for we in this country , because every time we bear down on reoffende , that be cut crime . it be a strategy for make sure that we have few victim in the future . I hope that if whatever proposal we bring forward lead to a reduction in reoffende , the hon . Gentleman will back those proposal . in June 2024 , in the die day of the last Conservative Government and after 14 year of their rule , there emerge a shocking statistic : 60 % of rape victim be withdraw from the court process , mainly because of court delay . be that not a damn indictment of all government who have take power in this country ? what be the Lord Chancellor do to help reduce the number of rape victim take that awful decision ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the figure that he note be a damn indictment of the last Conservative Government . the announcement we have make today will bear down on the court backlog , and it will mean that some rape victim get their case hear as case move through the system more swiftly . we have already implement our manifesto commitment on independent legal adviser , because we know that , in addition to delay , one of the thing that cause many rape victim to drop out be inappropriate request for personal information that go beyond what the law require . those independent legal adviser will ensure that rape victim ' right in law be respect and that the process do not feel like it be retraumatise woman who be already go through so much , and who be wait for their day in court to have justice do . Harrow Crown court have eight court room and could help alleviate the capacity problem . sadly , it have be close since 2023 as a result of find reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in the roof . it be suppose to open last year . that be then move to April this year , and it be now be say that the court will not open for a further year . give the improved funding , could the Justice Secretary look at whether we can speed up the process of bring that court back into action , and help the people who now have to go to Willesden , Amersham , Southwark and elsewhere in London for their case to be hear , so that they can get justice at a local level ? I absolutely understand the hon . Gentleman ' s frustration and that of his constituent . I understand that the problem at Harrow relate to RAAC , and that the delay be due to contractor issue . I will make sure that we write to he with a full plan of what we anticipate will happen to get the Crown court back into use . I hope he will recognise the record investment in Crown court maintenance , which be also be announce today . it be up by £ 28 . 5 million , which will go some way to alleviate some of the maintenance issue . under the last Conservative Government , we see a reduction in the number of Crown court judge in Shropshire and Telford ; courtroom remain empty for year while victim wait for year for their trial to take place . with Labour , we now have an extra Crown court judge , a remand court back in the county and extra Crown court sit time . I have hear from magistrate and Crown court judge in my area that defendant be opt for a Crown court trial because they know it will take year to conclude . can we make sure that that do not happen in future ? we should absolutely tackle the backlog , but can the Lord Chancellor give an assurance that we , unlike the last government , will not tell police officer to stop arrest people and put they before the court ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that reassurance . this government will deliver 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood police officer , because we be absolutely clear that we need neighbourhood policing and bobby back on the beat in this country . he be right to note that the size of the backlog and the structural problem with the backlog mean that many defendant be game the system . they know that they can take their chance , wait it out and hope that the victim give up or that , for some other reason , the case simply never get to court . that be why , in addition to the record funding , we have to consider once - in - a - generation reform of our Crown court . do the Lord Chancellor accept that part of the reason for the loss of public confidence lie with the sort of case that be clog up tribunal and court time ? as explain by Jawad Iqbal in his column in the Times today , these involve dubious decision about not be able to deport convict criminal , such as an iraqi cocaine dealer who can not be send back to his homeland because he be consider to be " too westernised " . quite apart from the perversity of the result , be it not an insult to the genuine victim of crime who be hold up in get the judgment that they deserve ? the right hon . Member will know that it would be inappropriate for the Lord Chancellor to comment on individual judgment . on some of the decision in the immigration chamber , which have be the subject of some public discussion , he will know that the Prime Minister have be very clear that where a policy or a legal change be require , it be for the Government to bring forward those change and ultimately for the House to vote on they . in that respect , the Home Secretary be consider further change to the law . the right hon . Gentleman mention deportation , and let I remind he that , under this government , deportation of foreign national offender from our prison be up by 23 % . Mr Speaker , like Chorley ' s magistrate court , Harlow ' s sadly close in 2019 . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement , but do she agree that we need radical reform to start drive down the Crown court backlog , include the use of magistrate court — as I say , sadly , we can not use Harlow ' s at the moment — so that we can get through case more quickly and give victim the justice they require ? we can reopen they together . I be listen very carefully and take under advisement all these lobbying request , include from the Speaker himself , about court in member ' area . I thank both you , Mr Speaker , and my hon . friend for that . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need radical reform . without radical reform , the backlog , no matter how many Crown court sitting day we fund , will keep go up and up , which be why Sir Brian Leveson ' s work be so very crucial . I speak as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , which work on the report about how justice delay be justice deny , and I recommend that member peruse it . what specific conversation have the Lord Chancellor have with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government about speed up the planning process so that we can get more courtroom operate ? we be speed up the planning process . the court Minister be in regular conversation with the planning Minister . the issue of Crown court capacity be less one of planning and more about funding enough day so that maximum use can be make of every available courtroom , while recognise that there have to be some level of give in the system of courtroom usage to enable it to be run efficiently . demand ebb and flow at every court across the whole country , so some spare capacity need to be maintain , and it be that spare capacity that enable such a swift response to the summer riot . I hope the hon . Member will reflect on the fact that some spare capacity will always be require , but as I say , those conversation be happen regularly between the court Minister and the planning Minister . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement and for the record funding . it be just a shame that the shadow Justice Secretary , bereft of any policy idea , have basically turn up today to tackle the man — or in this case the woman — rather than play the ball . a little humility , contrition and a wholesome apology would not go amiss . do the Lord Chancellor agree that , in allow the backlog to spiral out of control , the previous Government fail countless victim ? will she confirm that today ' s announcement mean victim can have more confidence in the justice system under Labour ? I be very happy to fight the shadow Lord Chancellor — woman to man — any time he like . conservative Members should own up to the failure of the previous Administration and apologise — if they want a hearing from anybody in politic or , indeed , from the people in the country ever again . this government have show that we be determined to clean up the mess we inherit , and victim across the country can take confidence from the fact that we have make record funding available and we be consider the structural reform require to sort out the system . when I speak to the police in Tunbridge Wells , they often comment that a large court backlog have a real effect on level of crime . there be more criminal in circulation and , frankly , the system be see as a bit of a soft touch if case be never bring to court . may I simply ask the Justice Secretary what be the backlog in Kent and when will it be clear ? if she do not have the figure to hand , would she write to I with they ? I would be happy to write to the hon . member with the specific figure for Kent . however , he will know that the criminal justice system as a whole be under tremendous pressure and extreme stress because of the backlog and the prison capacity crisis , all of which be the legacy of the previous Government that we be now fix . it be no surprise to I that I be the third MP from Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent to take part today , because in Staffordshire we now have 1 , 350 open case wait to be hear by Crown court . that figure more than double over the last five year of conservative mismanagement , and it be the high number since record begin . I speak to the police commander in Lichfield on Monday , and one of his major concern be that delay in justice be see to be do in court be make hard his job of build the relationship he need with our community . the bad case he have raise with I include serious sexual assault and rape case that have be delay for almost five year . what step will the Secretary of State be take to make sure that these additional extra sitting day be target at the most serious offender ? my hon . friend raise a very important point . it be my job as Lord Chancellor to make sure that the overall settlement for Crown court sitting day be sufficiently big to help drive down the Crown court backlog , which be why I have make the record allocation today . the listing of individual case be of course a matter for the independent judiciary , and it would be improper and inappropriate for I to comment on listing decision . however , take as a whole — with both the investment we be make and the reform we be consider once Sir Brian Leveson ' s review have report — I think he and his constituent can be confident that this Government be go to sort out the system . I very much thank the Lord Chancellor for increase the number of sit day to attempt to tackle the extremely large delay in court case that we face in the United Kingdom , which be the sad reality for those seek justice . as she will know , in Northern Ireland there be currently 18 , 907 pende case in magistrate court , which be an absolutely huge backlog . give the drastic increase in case involve violence against woman and girl in Northern Ireland , may I gently ask the Lord Chancellor what discussion she have have with the policing and justice Minister to help address the court case issue and reduce delay in the Province ? it be always a pleasure to respond to the hon . Gentleman , and I thank he for his remark welcome today ' s announcement . a parliamentary under - Secretary of State will be meet devolve Justice Ministers very soon and we will update the hon . gentleman on the work we be do with Ministers in Northern Ireland . I associate myself with the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) , my constituency neighbour in Shropshire , in welcome today ' s much - need funding announcement , in particular the structural reform to increase capacity . in Shrewsbury we currently have no work magistrate court , despite be the county town for 350 , 000 resident . will the reform also enable and support the pragmatic reallocation of courtroom between Crown and magistrate use in area such as Shropshire , so that spare capacity can be unlock specifically in town , such as Shrewsbury , that be well serve by public transport for all our rural population ? the principle of local justice be incredibly important to this Government and we will endeavour to ensure that it be at the heart of all our proposal and change . we have also increase recruitment to the magistracy . I welcome today ' s announcement . recruitment and retention challenge have limit access to justice in recent year . will the Lord Chancellor outline what step she be take to ensure that we have enough barrister and solicitor so that court can get through as many case as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the availability of lawyer . that be why the Government have already increase criminal legal aid by up to £ 92 million and increase the number of prosecutor . we will be bring forward more change in the upcoming victim Bill to increase the availability of certain type of lawyer to do prosecution work . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . as a member of the Public Accounts Committee , I have recently hear detail about the shocking state of disrepair in our court in recent year . the most recent report identify the Nightingale court set up under the previous Government as a way to deal with the covid backlog . many year on , some Nightingale court still exist and in some case be cost six time more than a normal court . can she reassure we that they will continue to close and that we can direct that money to the court that need repair ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be keep the situation in relation to Nightingale court under review . where they be make a contribution that be assist with caseflow through the system , there be a case for keep they , but it be under review and the court Minister , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , will be happy to write to she with further detail . I have be in this House for only a few month , but I must admit that I be absolutely stagger by the chutzpah of Conservative Members — most have leave , but when they be here — in their attitude to this issue . in a competitive field , the state of our criminal court and our criminal justice system perhaps win the award for the most acute crisis as a result of the legacy of the previous Government . I really welcome today ' s statement , in particular the emphasis not just on capacity but on productivity . may I just press the Government on whether that approach will also be take in our family court ? I welcome the investment in infrastructure and capital spend in family court , but we also need to look at how we can improve productivity . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point on productivity . that be why the second phase of Sir Brian Leveson ' s work be so crucial . he will know that we have expand our pathfinder pilot , which be make a really important contribution to the flow of case through the family court , and we be keep it under review . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be real concern in Basildon and Billericay about the closure of the South Green surgery . I have raise the matter in Parliament a couple of time , include at oral question , where the Health Secretary tell I it would be a matter for my integrate care board and that he would be happy to make some introduction . however , in response to a write question , the Minister for Care , the hon . member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , tell I that new power under the Health and Care Act 2022 mean that the Secretary of State could intervene under new power introduce on 31 January 2024 . this have cause real confusion among my constituent , particularly the 3 , 500 who sign a petition lead by Justine Norris and Vivienne Conway , and my excellent local councillor , who have be do all they can to raise the issue . what can Mr Speaker do to ensure that minister do not give my constituent accidentally mislead answer and that they correct the record when they make mistake ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give notice of his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for the content of ministerial answer , but he have put his point on the record and there be a procedure for minister to correct the record if they wish to do so . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will be aware that I have be campaign for over 12 year on behalf of family affect by the drug Primodos . in December 2023 the Government agree to look at new evidence that link primodo to baby bear with deformity . in November 2024 the Commission on Human Medicines finally hold a session with expert to look at that new evidence . at the session we be tell that the conclusion of the review would be publish in a matter of week . we be now in March . we have write to the Department and table question . how many month and year do the long - suffer family have to wait ? there have long be a culture of dither and delay on this issue , and a hope that the family will go away and that they can all be forget about . but this issue have tremendous cross - party support . can you advise I on what more I can do to get the Department ' s attention on this matter ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . this be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put her point on the record and I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note what she have say . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday , during my urgent question on Gaza , the Minister respond , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who have responsibility for the Indo - Pacific , say that the Minister with responsibility for the middle east , Afghanistan and Pakistan , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , could not answer the question himself as he be " in the region push for a peace deal " — [ Official Report , 4 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 166 . ] however , I have since receive a communication from the press with evidence suggest that he be at a Labour party network lunch at Ronnie Scott ' s at the time . could you advise , Madam Deputy Speaker , on whether the record should be correct if it be show not to be correct ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . have she give notice to the Members involve that she be go to raise this matter in the Chamber ? I have indeed . the Chair be not responsible for the content of ministerial answer , but the hon . Lady have put her point on the record and there be a procedure for minister to correct the record if they wish to do so . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Prime Minister rightly refer to the loss of life of young soldier . he be right to do that to set the tone for the Chamber and thank they . forty year ago , on Friday past , the IRA launch a mortar attack from Corry Square on Newry police station . how can the murder of nine brave young Royal Ulster Constabulary police officer — the ruc ' s big single loss of life ever in the Province — be record in this House ? how can we record their bravery , their courage and their determination in battle for Northern Ireland to have the freedom and peace we now have ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . he have put his point on the record . Bill Presented Ceramics ( Country of Origin Marking ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Gareth Snell , support by David Baines , Shaun Davies , Dave Robertson , Laurence Turner , Liam Byrne , Maya Ellis , Leigh Ingham , Antonia Bance and Matt Western , present a Bill to require the indication of country of origin for ceramic product ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April , and to be print ( Bill 191 ) . dentist ( Indemnity Arrangements ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Dentists Act 1984 in respect of indemnity arrangement . like many mp new to this place , I find that the first Bill I be present be not on something I have experience of , but on an issue bring to I by constituent . Clive Worthington be a much - love resident of Harlow . he work as a wood machinist and have three child and five grandchild . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) for introduce I to Clive ' s daughter , Gina , who be her constituent . when I meet Gina , she describe her father as fun - love and full of life — someone who have enjoy sport and play with his grandchild . in 2008 , Mr Worthington have dental implant . despite several follow - up operation in the year that follow , the procedure be unsuccessful , and he be leave in agony . he be award £ 117 , 378 in damage and legal cost at Chelmsford county court in November 2019 — one of the high payout for dental negligence in the UK . however , the dentist who carry out the work be only cover via her membership of the Dental Defence Union . organisation such as the DDU be not insurance company , but offer professional indemnity on a discretionary basis for member against the risk of dental negligence claim and professional conduct proceeding . the British Medical Association describe discretionary indemnity as " where legal and financial assistance be provide at the discretion of the provider , for example , not back by an insurance contract between the healthcare professional and the provider " . due to this loophole , Mr Worthington do not receive compensation and , in 2022 , unable to stand the agony and feeling as though he have " lose faith in the system " , he take his own life . the senior Essex coroner say that the long - term consequence of his unsuccessful dental surgery impact significantly on his mental health and ability to cope with daily life . as his daughter Gina say : " it ' s such a tragic end to a life . it just make I so mad — that it didn ' t have to end this way . " indemnity cover for healthcare professional , include dentist , be the subject of a consultation launch by the Department of Health and Social Care in December 2018 . to move forward and build on both the recommendation from the Paterson inquiry and the Gina ' s wish , this Bill would , via secondary legislation , amend the Dentists Act 1984 — as amend in the Health Care and Associated Professions ( Indemnity Arrangements ) Order 2014 — and therefore do not require lengthy primary legislation . my proposal be an amendment to section 26a ( 2 ) of the 1984 Act , as amend in the 2014 order , which currently read : " for the purpose of this section , an ' indemnity arrangement ' may comprise … a policy of insurance … an arrangement make for the purpose of indemnify a person " or " a combination of the two . " my Bill propose change that subsection to : " for the purpose of this section , an ' indemnity arrangement ' should comprise of a policy of insurance . " question put and agree to . order , that Chris Vince , Josh Dean , Jen Craft , Will Stone and Charlotte Nichols present the Bill . Chris Vince accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 192 ) . estimate Day - [ 1st Allotted Day ] estimate Day Department of Health and Social Care Motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Department of Health and Social Care : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 7 , 956 , 143 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 1 , 140 , 958 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 6 , 827 , 154 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant we the opportunity to debate this supplementary estimate , which provide an opportunity for all member of this House to look at the Public Accounts Committee ' s report on health and discuss how the money might be spend on different priority . as the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , I be honour to introduce the first estimate debate on the supplementary estimate of the Department of Health and Social Care . I make this application jointly with the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , and my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . as member of this House will know , the Public Accounts Committee be one of the old Committees of this House . it exist to protect taxpayer ' money and ensure that their pound be be use effectively . it go back , I think , to about 1867 . unlike other Committees , we do not take evidence from Ministers ; instead , we take evidence directly from permanent secretary and the most senior civil servant and public sector official . the National Audit Office provide we with audit account and value for money report , and we produce report of our own with recommendation to Government to which they must formally respond as part of the Treasury minute . at this point , I pay tribute to Amanda Pritchard , who have recently announce that she will be step down as chief executive of NHS England this summer . she oversee the NHS at a time when it be under so much pressure post pandemic , and I wish she well in her future endeavour . I also congratulate Chris Wormald on his promotion to Cabinet Secretary . these vacancy at the head of NHS England and the Cabinet Office provide an opportunity for completely fresh thinking within the NHS . I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s thank to Amanda Pritchard for her time at the head of NHS England . while I also welcome the appointment of Dr Penny Dash as its new chair , the hon . Gentleman be right to say this be a really important moment in the future of the national health service . I thank the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee for her endorsement of the worthy work that all these individual have put into the health service . the Department of Health and Social Care be one of the high spending Departments in the UK , with a total departmental expenditure limit stand at a huge £ 210 . 1 billion . I be not sure anybody believe that the NHS be work at optimal productivity . NHS England be the large quango with the high budget in Whitehall ; however , when allocate fund , it be also one of the few Departments that be make life and death decision that affect the life of literally million of patient and their family . I think it do , therefore , deserve the high level of scrutiny , which be part of what we be do today . before even get on to the figure , the NAO confirm that the level of productivity in the NHS have drop by around 23 % since the pandemic . I simply say that unless that be sort , any reform that the Government announce will be suck into the black hole of the NHS without commensurate value for money or result . rise — I do not want to give way to too many people ; otherwise , you will reprimand I for take too long , Madam Deputy Speaker . however , I be , of course , happy to give way to the hon . Lady . on that point specifically , I be at my local hospital — County hospital , in Stafford — a couple of week ago , where I notice that staff be still use paper to make note on patient . one of the big barrier to the NHS be more efficient be the inability to have effective digital system . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the investment that have be announce in the move from analogue to digital in the NHS be long overdue ? I agree entirely with the hon . Lady . she have obviously be read my speech — I will cover the announcement later in my speech , at which point she will hear exactly what it say . as I say , the NAO have confirm that productivity level have drop by 23 % . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to a 10 - year plan for the NHS . we have also repeatedly warn that , with an age and increasingly sick population , the NHS will struggle to cope with the ever - increase multiple complex demand of our population . I wish to split this speech into three section : how productivity could be improve in the NHS ; funding ; and , as the hon . member for Stafford allude to , technical advancement and a shift into community care . the Department of Health and Social Care ' s day - to - day spending — RDEL — be set to increase by £ 10 . 9 billion — from £ 187 . 9 billion to the main estimate as produce today of £ 198 . 5 billion . the capital spending be , however , set to decrease by around £ 1 billion , from £ 12 . 5 billion to £ 11 . 5 billion — a decrease of 8 % . that be worry as it show that more and more fund be be redirect from long - term investment — for example , in the new hospital to which the previous Government have commit themselves . I welcome the new Treasury guideline that have stop the practice of the past few year of redirect up to £ 1 billion from capital spending to day - to - day spending . that should help to make more money available . the NHS estate , as we all know from our constituency , be in desperate need of investment , and our capital investment programme be run behind schedule . the problem with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete have only add to the necessity of upgrade our hospital , and I hope the Minister will listen to this plea . the late NAO report on the DHSC annual report and account show that local system , such as integrate care board and NHS provider , report a year - end overspend of £ 1 . 4 billion . this have nearly double from £ 621 million in 2022 - 23 . this be despite an extra £ 4 . 5 billion of additional funding during 2023 - 24 , which be to support pay deal for non - medical staff , mitigate any impact from industrial action and provide money to address the cost of new pay arrangement for doctor and dentist . what I do not think be acceptable be the glacial pace of agree priority and approve final budget for the local system . in November , our Committee be shock to hear that , in the past two year , those local system — icb and other — have not have their financial plan approve by the Department until June and May respectively . that be up to three month after the start of the financial year . how can our poor local system plan efficiently when these final allocation and guidance be so late ? if the Department ' s own account be finalise much soon , our local system would be able to have the money allocate in a more timely way , make wastage and inefficient spending less likely . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s prognosis that the NHS be far too big and complicated . there should be a shift towards allow NHS trust more control of their own budget , as clarify in the 2025 - 26 priority and operational planning guidance publish in January . move more fund directly to nhs trust , icb and local system will improve accountability and give they a level of flexibility about how their fund should be well spend , rather than just focus on target and directive . for example , if they be to run a surplus because they have run their operation so well , they could reinvest the money in desperately need capital project rather than return it to Whitehall . that must also go hand in hand with a need to improve productivity . between 1996 and 2019 , the NHS average a measly 0 . 6 % a year increase in productivity . since the pandemic , productivity have now fall by 23 % . in March 2024 , the Conservative Government announce that the NHS would receive £ 3 . 4 billion of capital investment for digital improvement between 2025 - 26 and 2027 - 28 , which begin to address the point that the hon . member for Stafford mention . as part of that investment , NHS England commit to achieve ambitious average productivity improvement of 2 % per year through to 2029 - 30 . however , those digital improvement , presage by that additional £ 3 . 4 billion , have not yet be fully action . I thank the hon . gentleman for his speech and , importantly , for his scrutiny of the NHS . he reflect on the fact that productivity have worsen since the pandemic . do he not think that be to do with the mental health of staff ? to support our NHS professional to be as productive as possible , should we not be consider look after their health , include their mental health ? the hon . Gentleman be exactly right . the NHS employ an enormous number of staff — more than 1 million people , I think — and their condition of work be really important if we be to retain they . that do mean that their mental health need close attention , especially when they have problem . if the nhs can not help with mental health issue , who can ? the hon . Gentleman have hit on a really important point . one reason that productivity be not improve more be that there be 19 % more staff in the NHS , but they be see only 14 % more patient . at our hearing , NHS official state that this be due to more complex and acute health need , meaning long stay in hospital . I also understand that it be due to staff sickness , absence and the then ongoing workforce industrial action that affect most patient last year , make target more difficult to meet . I do not know about other hon . member , but I be still get email from constituent whose appointment and operation be cancel at the last minute due to that industrial action and who be still wait for their procedure to be rearrange . along with staff , technology play a big role in improve efficiency and productivity . the 2025 - 26 priority and operational planning guidance state that the NHS organisation " will need to reduce their cost base by at least 1 % and achieve 4 % improvement in productivity . " I understand that these figure be hard to pin down due to the NHS still negotiate with body such as the ONS on the definition of productivity and how it can be measure . I say to the Minister that , even if the number be dispute , we have still not see a plan for how these productivity gain can be achieve , and the Committee believe that NHS England have produce unrealistic estimate . we need to have a realistic estimate from the Department of what productivity gain can be achieve over the next few year . without significant productivity gain , the NHS will not substantially reform waiting time and achieve the good value for the large amount of money that we spend on it . on average , there be a 4 % real term increase in our spending each year , when the economy be grow by only 1 % , which be unsustainable in the long term . if we go back to 2013 , the Health Secretary have set the NHS a challenge of go paperless by 2018 . clearly , as we all know , that have not happen , because the NHS be still use fax machine . in a digital age of AI , that lack of modernisation produce a risk to both patient and employee in the NHS . invest in well technology would help with the Government ' s ambition to shift more care into the community . community healthcare can take many form , from GP surgery and community hospital to pharmacy , dentist and social care . I fear that when we talk about the NHS budget , we predominantly focus on hospital care , rather than the care that most of our constituent need every day . indeed , Lord Darzi ' s report , which be commission by the Government last year , say that " the NHS budget be not be spend where it should be — too great a share be be spend in hospital , too little in the community , and productivity be too low " this be where I would like to pay tribute to our GPs and all their staff across the country , especially in the North Cotswolds . our GP surgery be usually the first point of contact with our NHS , from antenatal service to blood test and vaccination . they also offer a number of service that could be term preventive care . as a Committee , we question NHS official on their prioritisation of prevent ill health rather than treat it , thus avoid much more expensive hospital intervention in the future and a much well patient experience . their reply be that they have little additional headroom to grow preventive service , yet the public health grant use by local authority to commission preventive measure , such as health visitor and drug and alcohol service , be expect to fall in value next year by £ 193 million , despite the Government ' s commitment to maintain it in real term . I can not stress enough how I believe that we should be pay much more attention to prevention rather than cure ; it be just so important . NHS England say that , rather than move fund , there should be a focus on the role of GPs and how they can advise their patient . however , accord to the Royal College of General Practitioners , although more than 90 % of patient ' direct experience of the NHS be through primary care and GP practice , less than 10 % of the total budget be currently spend on primary care . I say gently to the Minister that we be get our priority wrong there . as a Committee , we have recommend that the Government clearly define what count as health prevention spending within the next six month and track that spend annually . icb should be give more flexibility in how they spend their money , which might include redirect service to more community setting that be close to patient . it might also include redirect fund to help manage discharge from hospital . accord to the House of Commons Library , the late datum show that last year an average of 12 , 340 patient a day remain in hospital despite be clinically fit to be discharge . even though there be a slight decrease of 1 . 2 % from last year , more can be do to ensure that patient who be well enough can leave hospital for the community and be close to their family . that will require well work between social care and hospital . the hon . Member be make a powerful case for reform and review . this morning , the Health and Social Care Committee be look at the very issue of delay discharge of medically fit patient . do he not accept that we need more integration ? if only a quarter of those delay discharge be down to a lack of social care package , that mean many patient can not be discharge because they have a primary healthcare condition that need to be take care of , so we need integration and not just social care reform . the hon . Member make an extremely powerful point . I be come to the conclusion of my speech , which be on precisely that point . the social care system be not work in this country . it be a political football that keep be pass from one government to another . I understand that the Government have commit to another review of adult social care and that we should not expect result until at least 2028 ; for many of our elderly patient , that will be too late . the funding of social care be rise exponentially . there need to be more focused and join - up thinking from the DHSC , NHS England and local authority on how they can support those who need help to be discharge from hospital in a timely manner and live in their own home for a long period than they might otherwise be able to do . it should not be a postcode lottery , as exist now . with more join - up thinking between different part of the NHS , the patient experience could be well . however , without substantial increase in productivity , increase spending on preventive care and public health , and a well function social care system , our NHS will never be able to operate at the optimal level with world - lead standard . rise — I want to try to get everybody in , so I will start with an immediate five - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) . although we sit on opposite side in the Chamber , we now spend most of our time in this place on the same side of the table in the Committee . I congratulate he on his appointment and the work he be do as Chair . the clear remit from the Secretary of State be to move to prevention , community care and digital service ; that be how it be lay down . when we have the official from the Department and NHS England before the Committee , we say that we think they be complacent about the NHS ' s finance . I think that there be no sense of purpose or long - term strategy to deliver on the Secretary of State ' s objective ; that be the worrying thing . let we look at the immediate problem . we have a service where trust and other can run up deficit and seemingly there be no consequence . unlike local government , which have to balance the book or go to the Government for approval to capitalise loss , that do not happen in the NHS . we have the problem in South Yorkshire that Doncaster hospital run at a loss every year — I be not blame the hospital , because it have an old building that need massive refurbishment , or probably complete rebuilding , and it have not have the resource — and those loss go into the wide ICB system and put pressure on other hospital and trust not to distribute any surplus they might make to community service in Sheffield but to fund other ' loss . that be no way to incentivise a proper financial arrangement . the hon . Member be absolutely right on move towards community service , which be about not just get people out of hospital but stop they go into hospital in the first place . that certainly could be do . GPs hold 90 % of appointment and get 10 % of the funding . that be clearly wrong ; we have get to switch that . on social care , about eight year ago the Health and Social Care Committee and the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee produce a joint report to which 22 member of Parliament sign up , but we be still here talk about the funding . Louise Casey be a great appointment as she have a great " get up and go " attitude , but I be sure she could be ask to get up and go a bit before 2028 , because that be a long time to wait for any response . we should be look a lot more at move service out of hospital . there be a proposal around — and I say " around " because the NHS do not tend to act quickly — a diagnostic centre at Crystal Peaks in my constituency . the south - east of Sheffield be a long way from the two teaching hospital , so to put service such as MRI scan , ultrasound scan , x - ray and CT scan there and to have GPs work with consultant who come to see patient in their clinic in the community would save money and provide a well patient service . but that seem to get lock up in discussion about NHS financing and commission , and who get pay what to see who and when . we have get to unravel that and recognise that service can be make to improve significantly . on digitalisation , the example of fax machine be of course legendary , but the other week I have to change a hospital appointment a couple of time — the service be really helpful in change it — and I get not merely three email and three text but three letter with a first - class stamp on they , all for one appointment . that be a complete waste of money . I have talk to the hospital in Sheffield , which be bring in new IT system to cover the whole of the hospital operation , but that do not link into the GP system . it be just nonsense that in this day and age we have that sort of unjoine - up thinking . I will raise a couple of other issue . the consultant who have be treat I for the last seven year — successfully at this stage — for my myeloma have get an idea . People have so much chemotherapy to go through — probably at least six different session , twice a week — and for those session they have to go into the day ward . that be all right for some people — my timetable be helpfully rearrange to suit I come down here and go back — but for many that be not possible , particularly if they have to go to a specialist unit that be many mile away . he have develop an idea for home chemotherapy , which work and be good . I be sorry to intervene on my deputy , who do an excellent job on the Public Accounts Committee . in the last Parliament , before he join the Committee , we go to Denmark , where they do precisely what he be talk about : give chemotherapy treatment to people in their home where they have a history of not react to it . absolutely . obviously , it be do with a clinician ' s approval and with the patient ' s agreement . the idea have be around for two year now , but again it be lose in the labyrinth of NHS discussion , board and committee . come on — let we do it now . it be a good idea , which be actually cheap and benefit the patient . why can not these idea be get up and move much more quickly ? I absolutely agree with the comment make by the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee on public health . it be like an afterthought . the grant for public health come out at least two , three or four month after the main grant for the NHS and local Government — it be like the money down the back of the sofa that the Treasury find at the last minute — and over the year it have be cut significantly in real term . public health in Sheffield do an absolutely great job , work with NHS Sheffield Place . it have do some really good work in deprive community to increase and improve community care in the north of Sheffield . that be the sort of initiative we ought to pursue , and we should give the ICB the wherewithal to support and engage with that . finally , we ought to build equality of treatment into our aspiration . in Sheffield , from one end of the city to another , life expectancy change by 10 year . that be simply not acceptable . however , for child vaccination , GPs get pay by the number of vaccination they do , so those gps with the easy patient to reach — probably those in the wealthy area — get a lot more money for do vaccination than those struggle to engage with deprive community . that sort of initiative from the NHS be wrong and we need to correct it . it be a privilege to make a contribution in this important seasonal debate . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) for bring the debate to the House and commend he on his work chair the Public Accounts Committee . as he set out , the NHS face a number of endure challenge : productivity , the integration of different system , the challenge of public health , and the endure issue of social care and how local authority can provide the space for the NHS to deliver some of the outcome we all aspire to . I spend some of my time prior to the election in the Treasury . at every fiscal event that I be part of , whether as parliamentary private Secretary to the Chancellor , Economic Secretary or Chief Secretary , more money be give to the NHS . an attempt be make before every fiscal event to ensure that all the relevant stakeholder make the right positive statement about the new commitment , yet six or 12 month later there would be another press financial challenge . I say that because it be frustrating — we all come to this place to try to find endure solution to problem that be complicated . I therefore want to make some observation about the challenge of multiple system operate effectively in allocate resource . I meet GPs in my constituency regularly , as I be sure we all do . one such person be Dan Henderson , who be a partner at Salisbury medical practice . alongside Anna Morton , who be a practice manager , he explain to I the complicated dynamic with our ICB over how to ensure that the right allocation be make for the input that they be organise at GP practice . it be mindboggle how difficult that process of secure the right allocation be and the lack of ability to plan effective system over one , two or three year and beyond because the budget cycle be so overwhelmed with manage the health system . if we be to tackle the productivity challenge , we have to come to term with those connection point between icb , GPs and local authority and with how we can embed behavioural shift that lift productivity . the second area I want to touch on , despite the record £ 200 billion of funding go into the NHS , be the problem of public health and come to term with how we consume health service as a country . where something be free at the point of need , we can become very inefficient in the way we draw down that provision . I really think we have to work on pathway for inform and help our constituent access health system effectively . we have see an explosion of mental health challenge in recent year and the NHS have do a fantastic job of try to deal with that . however , we should not tolerate the variable performance of the NHS across different trust and across the country . one way in which we can raise productivity be by expose those variance in performance so that those who be lead the NHS can be accountable for they . those system will be different for many reason , with different demographic pressure and different challenge due to their capital estate . we must get those issue out in the open rather than always think that just plough more money into our NHS system be the way forward . I welcome the great investment , once again , in the NHS , but I recognise that we will need radical solution if we be to change the productivity story . as a House , we need to unite in find the right fix and look at the good way of bring they to fruition across our country . when the Labour Government come into office last year , the NHS be in a critical state . its fundamental promise to be there when we need it have be break . the uplifted funding package be the first step on the road to make good that promise once again , but the pressure face our health and care system be not over . our system need fundamental reform as well as investment , and achieve the ambitious 4 % efficiency target on which the Budget be premise will be challenging and will require change . it be vital that we secure additional capital investment . we see the previous Government continually raid the capital budget of the NHS to balance the book , leave the long - term productivity issue that we face today . I have see in my own constituency hospital ward close and unable to do procedure , and pharmacy and sexual health service desperate to do more but without the clinical space to expand . the £ 3 billion uplift in the future capital budget be therefore very good news . in her response , will the Minister outline that commitment to protect capital budget and maximise they to deliver the change that we need to see ? through my work on the Health and Social Care Committee over the past few month , I have hear time and again , and it have become increasingly apparent , that to achieve the three shift that the 10 - year plan address we will have to bring together health and social care budget and change financial flow to provide long - term funding settlement for both sector . we will also have to fix the front door of our NHS , which be primary care , to which I will address the rest of my comment . primary care be well place to provide preventive advice that keep people well and deliver community - base healthcare that keep people out of hospital . yet it be precisely those primary care service — GPs , dentist , pharmacist and optometrist — that face some of the harsh underfunding and neglect over the last 14 year of conservative mismanagement . the Government ' s new deal for GPs , announce last week , be a welcome first step in improve primary care provision , but GPs can not do it alone . primary care be much more than just general practice , and other component of primary care be still in a state of crisis . community pharmacy be on the same flat funding contract that expire in late 2024 , and that funding model be clearly inadequate . Healthwatch have estimate that 400 pharmacy be force to close permanently in the last 12 month . I recently visit Boots pharmacy in my constituency and see the great work that it be do on vaccination , health advice and so much more , and it be desperate to expand the range of service it offer . on optometry , have recently meet the team at Uxbridge Specsavers , it be clear to I that optometry be much more than just glass and contact lense . through advanced testing , they have recently diagnose people with a range of condition , such as high blood pressure and even brain tumour . on dentistry , the dental contract be no long fit for purpose , with many practice no long deliver NHS appointment and those that be do so at a financial loss . in Uxbridge and South Ruislip , the majority of practice be now close to new NHS patient — both adult and child — and that clearly can not go on . with that in mind , the provision of 700 , 000 extra urgent dental care appointment on the NHS , announce last month by the new Government , be a vital and desperately need action . but clearly , more be need . will the Minister confirm whether the dental budget will continue to be ringfence ? will we ensure that , unlike the last government , we will not underdeliver and underspend on the vitally need dentistry budget ? will she also confirm that negotiation for the new dentistry contract will begin in earnest this year to permanently fix the dentistry crisis ? the mental health investment standard have be crucial in protect mental health spending , as part of a vital shift to give mental health parity of esteem . as we shift to neighbourhood health , I hope the Government can explore how to well track community - base health and preventive spending , ideally protect and grow the share of the NHS budget see by primary care . the task of rebuild our health estate and our primary care system be an immense challenge . however , it be not insurmountable . labour have turn around the NHS before , and I be confident that this Government will do it again , create a genuine community - base health and care system . as a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , I know that there be serious challenge face our health and social care system , particularly in the context of current and future funding . we all know that the NHS be under immense pressure . our population be age , health need be become more complex and the effect of the pandemic continue to be feel . if we want a system that work for everyone , we need to address these challenge with smart , strategic and effective solution . before I become a Member of Parliament , I work in healthcare , most recently as part of the NHS get it right First Time programme . this programme focus on improve patient care by study what work well , compare datum and make practical change . through that work , I see where the system be bogge down by excessive bureaucracy , poor organisation and feeble productivity improvement , lead to unacceptable and unwarranted variation in care . those problem waste time and money instead of help patient . we need to streamline process , modernise service and focus on patient outcome rather than bureaucracy . when the last government be in charge , we increase NHS funding to record level . in 2023 - 24 , the NHS ' s day - to - day budget be nearly £ 180 billion , and there be even more be spend in the current budget . but the real question be : where be this extra money go ? despite this additional spending , NHS England ' s chief financial officer admit to the Health and Social Care Committee that almost all of this year ' s £ 10 . 6 billion uplift will be consume by pay settlement , increase national insurance contribution and rise cost of treatment and medicine , mean that very little , or indeed none at all , will be leave for improve patient care . the Government be pour billion into the NHS , but without demand productivity reform the money be be absorb by the system instead of reach the frontline where it be need the most . in my constituency of Farnham and Bordon , which include Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village , we have challenge in ensure fair access to service across our different area . in Bordon , rapid housing development continue , yet healthcare provision have fail to keep pace . the ICB be push ahead with proposal for a new health hub , but there be concern that it will not meet the future demand of a grow population . resident who rely on the Chase hospital need assurance that new facility will provide long - term , sustainable care . in Haslemere , the hospital have make great stride in expand service , reduce pressure on nearby GP surgery and major hospital such as the Royal Surrey County hospital , but ongoing support be need . upgrade equipment , increase staffing and ensure continued investment will allow Haslemere hospital to remain a cornerstone of our local healthcare provision . Farnham , meanwhile , face persistent issue with both healthcare and access to dental service . the shortage of NHS dentist be an escalate crisis , leave many resident without the care they need . too many people be force to travel long distance or go without treatment entirely . indeed , across the constituency , transport link to place such as Frimley Park hospital remain a concern . as a regional hub , Frimley Park play a vital role in serve Farnham and beyond . however , for many resident , particularly those in rural area , access treatment there be a challenge . I have work closely with the local authority and Frimley Park to improve transport connection , include through the expansion of the Waverley Hoppa service . if the Government truly want to expand service , they need to look at this holistically : not just at the building but at how patient can access they . labour ' s tax increase on GPs , pharmacy , care home and social care provider be put vital service at risk . the Royal College of General Practitioners have warn that these change could force some surgery to close or reduce their service . in my constituency , that be amply demonstrate to I when I visit Badgerswood gp surgery and pharmacy . I have also speak to Dr Kabir from the Hampshire primary care network and Tim Corry from Guardian Angels . they tell I that these change be force small healthcare provider to cut staff hour , downsize operation and even lay off employee . hospice be also struggle , with project cost increase of £ 30 million . I be lucky that the Phyllis Tuckwell hospice in my constituency be currently go through a major rebuild , but other be not so lucky . the Government need to focus on real reform that improve productivity and modernise healthcare . if the Health Secretary be serious about make the nhs well , he must explain how he plan to integrate those innovation into his 10 - year plan . the reality be that this Labour Government have fail to build the new hospital programme and to implement the Conservative Government ' s cap on social care cost . labour have no plan to fix the NHS . instead of return to the futile model of " whitehall know good " , the Government should be look at actively devolve funding to local system , with the provision of punishment if they fail . ultimately , they must have an honest and open conversation with the public about how we deliver , provide and fund healthcare . meet my constituent in Thurrock serve as a constant reminder of the state of our NHS and the health of our nation . I regularly hear from resident who can not access NHS service , who be stick on a waiting list or who be unable to see their doctor . I see how the social determinant of health play out , put people in part of my constituency at a disadvantage from day one . housing , unemployment and education drive health inequality , and in our most deprived community , people do not live to see their 80th birthday . that be representative of the immense task this Government have be set . the funding of the health service and the estimate we be discuss today be fundamental to turn the tide on these trend . fourteen year of neglect and failure , the high waiting list on record , an age population that be get sicker and unmet need in community across the country mean that the NHS be at a pivotal point in its history . it must fundamentally change how it operate in order to survive . the £ 22 . 6 billion of funding commit to revenue spending at the Budget be a welcome and much - need cash injection , the impact of which be already be feel . the delivery of Labour ' s manifesto commitment of 2 million more appointment a year be testament to that . I do mention this in my speech , but I think the hon . Lady be there in the Health and Social Care Committee when the chief financial officer of NHS England say that the extra £ 10 . 6 billion allocate for this year would be entirely eat up by other cost , include national insurance rise , and that there would be almost no extra money for frontline patient care . do she remember that ? I be indeed at that Committee , and I also remember the reflection that NHS England be incredibly grateful for the amount of money that be be give . it be the high amount of money give to any Department at the Budget , and it be much , much more than have be give in previous year . waiting list have fall for the fourth month in a row — I hope the hon . Gentleman and his colleague will welcome that — with 160 , 000 few people wait for treatment than when Labour take office . that include a member of my own family , so I be very grateful to see that happen . extend the opening hour of community diagnostic centre , such as the one set to open in my constituency this summer , will be key in catch condition early . while I welcome those measure , I would like to make the key point that funding alone be not enough to change and save how our NHS operate , and we must turbocharge the left shift to community and neighbourhood healthcare . in my constituency , it be often the front door to the NHS that let local people down , which drive admission to A & E when there be no available alternative . we have some of the most acute gp shortage in the country , with an average of 3 , 431 patient per GP . the neighbourhood health hub promise by the previous Government have yet to be deliver . People in Tilbury , one of my most economically deprive area , be still wait for a long - promise facility , which currently look like a hole in the ground , and I would welcome a discussion with the Minister about how we can work to deliver it . the record funding uplift for general practice , with £ 889 million of investment , be again welcome news , but it highlight the fundamental tension between tackle the crisis in acute care and drive the vital left shift to community care that will be fundamental in turn the tide on the NHS . we must not lose sight of the goal of create a healthy population in order to reduce pressure on acute service in this country , create well , healthy life and deliver the right care at the right time that put the focus on the individual . thurrock community hospital in my constituency deliver excellent integrated community care that bring together social worker from the local authority and NHS staff to meet people where they be , intervene early and reduce pressure on acute care . that be partly thank to a real partnership between the local authority and the integrated care board , and it have remove the need to focus on which public body benefit and which public body pay . I have to point out that our local authority have one of the low spend on adult social care , partly due to measure such as this . the real focus be on how to deliver for individual patient — what do patient need and how do they get to that place ? I welcome the bold move in the recent planning guidance to drastically reduce the strict target place on integrate care board , allow more of this work to take place by give icb independence to make decision that be relevant to their local population . however , I have hear from icb , include mine , that there be a risk that a focus on the elective care target may draw attention away from prevention . I would like to point out the removal from the planning guidance of the target for annual health check for people with learn disability . that community historically have be under - represent and have not have its health need fully meet . this population die young and do not access preventive care at the point at which it would be most beneficial for they . Blanket prevention measure do not cover such population . People in this community need specific intervention that allow they to access the healthcare that they need , when they need it . while a blanket annual health check be not necessarily the right way forward , it be absolutely critical that historically overlook group who be not serve as well as other by our healthcare system be not overlook when we shift to community and prevention work . I very much welcome the strong investment that the Government be make in our NHS ; it be vital in order to turn the NHS around and ensure that it be there for generation to come . I would welcome the Minister ' s thought on how we can incentivise prevention as well as provide acute care . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . we be prove that estimate be not dull , although they have a terrible reputation for be so . everything come from the money , and if we do not follow the money , we do our constituent a disservice . the Government have announce an incredibly welcome £ 22 . 6 billion increase in day - to - day spend on health and social care , in addition to the furth £ 3 billion in capital expenditure . it sound like , and be , a huge amount of money . the only thing big than the uplift will be the disappointment of our constituent if the money be not spend wisely and do not lead to the change that they desperately want and need . I will start with an example . my constituent be refer to her GP for an NHS - fund assessment for autism spectrum disorder . she take test , and exceed the threshold in all of they , and be tell that she would be put on a waiting list , with an expected wait of 16 year to 18 year — yes , year . she be 34 with young child , and will be wait for an appointment until she be 51 . that be clearly ridiculous . we welcome the three shift , the 10 - year plan and the long - term thinking , which hopefully will end story like the one that I just tell ; I know member from across the House will have similar story . I be interested to hear the Secretary of State choose technology as his top pick when I press he to pick a favourite priority at our Committee hearing on 18 December . in recent correspondence with the Committee , which be now online , the Department credit technology with a 0 . 7 % productivity contribution this year alone . I be concern , though , that we do not have much detail about how exactly technology will achieve that , and we will press the Department on that figure . prevention be also incredibly important , and it be always in danger of be overlook . I assure the Minister — I know she be responsible for prevention — that if the government do not pursue it , we will press they to , as will the electorate , I be sure , because be a no - brainer . if we want prevention , we have to invest in social care , but the Government be put almost all the investment that the hon . member talk about into the NHS , rather than social care . surely there need to be a rebalancing . in our Committee hearing just this morning , we hear that all part of the system want this . Acute care trust recognise that they have the bulk of the investment , but they realise that unless they start pool budget and work in an integrate way , we will not achieve the productivity gain that we desperately need . the Government ' s policy be actually achieve the opposite for social care of what the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) suggest . Peter run a small domiciliary service in my constituency that be go bust . that mean 35 people without a job , a loss of £ 100 , 000 in taxis every year , and all those patient now block bed in hospital . do my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) agree that the Government ' s policy be downgrade and trash social care , rather than boost it ? I share my hon . friend ' s frustration that we be not do more fast . indeed , the first inquiry that our Committee have launch be on social care and the cost of inaction , because there be a cost to do nothing , and we need to quantify that as good we can . on the three shift , the shift to the community be incredibly important , not least because successive Secretaries of State have say that they want that shift , yet the money have flow in the opposite direction . in Cromer in my constituency , about 18 month ago , the Conservative - control county council close down Benjamin Court reablement centre . that be exactly the sort of facility that we need to help bridge the gap between acute hospital and community and primary care . do my hon . friend agree that we must work to reopen those facility , which do not stand a chance until there be proper integration of NHS budget and the budget of adult social care provider ? we should be celebrate example of where this work well , not shut they down . in Oxford , the Hospital at Home programme , run by Oxford University hospital ambulatory team , do incredible work . I visit 91 - year - young Mavis the other day , who be receive top - notch ultrasound in her home — ultrasound of well quality than those that she would have get in the hospital . that save hundred of pound for the NHS and mean no long trip for she and her family . that be definitely something that we should do more of . let I turn to the estimate , because they be why we be here . the supplementary estimate have be publish . I will not hit anyone over the head with they — they be incredibly heavy . they be worth a read . they talk about a £ 198 . 5 billion day - to - day spending budget . at face value , that be an increase of £ 10 . 9 billion on the estimate from July , but £ 9 . 2 billion be for staff pay increase . let we be clear : staff deserve that pay rise . it be long overdue . retention and mental health be important , and we must invest in our workforce , but that do leave just £ 1 . 7 billion . will the hon . member give way ? I will make progress , if I may , because the clock be tick down . as for that £ 1 . 7 billion , once we add in national insurance contribution increase and inflationary cost , the NHS have have to ask for an additional £ 812 million on top , so it be already run a little behind . next year , the increase be due to be £ 10 . 6 billion , but as the Committee hear in a hearing , the expect pressure be £ 11 . 7 billion . we can all do the math . there be a problem . the way it will get solve , at least on paper , be through an enormous 4 % productivity increase , combine with cost reduction . we need more detail about how exactly that will be do . I echo the point make by my fellow Committee member , the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , about capital expenditure . in these estimate , we see that there have already be a decrease in capital spend of £ 1 billion from the 2024 - 25 main estimate . it be explain away as a transfer to day - to - day spending , due to a reclassification of spending on technology and new hospital as day - to - day spending . I do not know how other feel , but that do not sound quite right to I . I be concerned that the Government be fall into the same trap as previous government — perhaps understandably , because they have to pay for the day - to - day somehow . the Government give an assurance to the Public Accounts Committee that they would stop make those sort of change . be that still the case ? finally , I want to do more of this ; I want to undertake more scrutiny of the estimate , but it be quite hard to do , because there be a lack of detail . for example , in the document , £ 120 billion come under the sub - head , " NHS provider " , and there be absolutely no detail under that . will the Minister commit to work with the Committee and the House of Commons scrutiny unit to provide Parliament with a meaningful breakdown , so we can have more wonderful debate just like these ? rise — I will start with an immediate four - minute time limit . I acknowledge the £ 25 billion of additional funding allocate to health and social care in the autumn Budget . we be already begin to see improvement in waiting time , the number of dental appointment and access to treatment . that be absolutely what my poole constituent want and need to see from a Labour Government . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid I will not . funding be more challenging in social care , and that be what I will focus my comment on . there be widespread acceptance that our social care system be neither sustainable nor fit for purpose . for far too long , it have be the Cinderella service of the welfare state , overlook and underfunde , and it have suffer from a number of problem that start to emerge decade ago but have become critical as a result of severe cut to funding and increase demand . Most people who have look at the system recognise the huge cost to the NHS of keep people in hospital when they could be discharge into the community . however , too often there be not the care package in place to enable that discharge . that will be resolve only when we have a well understanding of the dynamic of social care and a more effective way of manage it . address the crisis in the system require we to reconsider the meaning of the term " social care , " and to abandon the false division between medical , nursing , personal and social care , and instead regard all those activity as part of a single care service . a new national care service should seek to go far than the exist model of provision . as well as provide free domiciliary and residential care to all user who be self - funding , it should also have to : take account of the 2 million old people who have need that be not be meet by the system ; improve term and condition for care staff ; strengthen regulation and monitoring of service ; and provide great support for the country ' s 5 million unpaid carer . there need to be an immediate national debate about how a new national care service can be publicly fund and deliver , what it should include and who should be responsible for its delivery . the new Casey commission will only delay that debate far , in my view . we have know about the problem for a long time . over the last two decade , we have have at least 20 commission , inquiry and report analyse what be wrong with the system and what might be do to address the problem . however , successive government have all find the issue too difficult to tackle , and have instead favour short - term answer that have largely leave the system untouched . the issue that all politician have avoid be the false division between health and social care , and the question of how such care should be fund . no one should face personal cost simply because they be unlucky enough to suffer from condition such as dementia . that undermine the very principle of our NHS . Society must share the burden , and those most able to contribute must pay their fair share . our universalist principle must lead we to talk about correct those inequality and ensure that wealth , resource and budget be use to build a fair and healthy society for all . I commend my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) for his introduction to the debate . I agree with the majority of what I have hear so far . we must understand the context of the large figure announce by the Government . in particular , the £ 10 billion for the NHS next year sound like a big figure , but as my colleague and Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , be right to inform we , the vast majority of that money — around £ 8 billion to £ 9 billion — will be take up by union pay deal , the national insurance increase bring about by the Chancellor , and inflation . when all the essential cost that the NHS must meet be take into account , the £ 10 billion represent a shortfall . the NHS will be able to deliver only if it produce productivity gain . we must understand that £ 10 billion will not even meet the require cost of the NHS . do the hon . Member not consider the workforce a vital part of the NHS ? properly fund the workforce , through a pay deal that appropriately recognise the effort they put in , be part of the work of turn around the outlook for our NHS . I agree with all those thing , and I be happy that the hon . Lady and I agree with each other . I hope that she acknowledge that £ 10 billion do not cover the basic requirement of the NHS . it deliver nothing more ; in fact , it deliver less . the NHS will be able to continue to grow only if it deliver productivity gain , and it should . do my hon . friend remember , as I do , that when the Secretary of State be in opposition , he be very clear that there would be no pay increase unless there be productivity gain and reform to the way the NHS operate ? now that labour be in government , that seem to have completely evaporate . I remember that clearly . I would like the Minister to spell out how she will deliver those productivity gain through reform . we want to hear more detail so that we can be confident that the NHS be secure . let I turn to one area that the Minister might like to reflect on : the use of technology . Penny Dash , the candidate to take over as chair of NHS England , tell the Health and Care Committee clearly that she would like technology to deliver and that she see lot of opportunity . she herself remark that basic technology in the NHS be not work . I recall that she use the example of nurse take half an hour to turn on a computer system and have to use five password to access it . I say to she that it be hardly sensible to try deliver technology gain around artificial intelligence and all the opportunity that it might bring if we can not deal with very basic , low - tech problem throughout the NHS . she agree and accept that be a challenge . I would like to see how the Secretary of State will , through the Minister , support NHS England in deliver that . I would also like to see the dementia diagnosis target bring back into the planning guidance document for NHS England . it be take out this year , in consultation with the Secretary of State — so he allow that . diagnose dementia be the most important thing we can do for people live with dementia and their family . take that diagnosis rate target out be inexcusable . I accept the wide point that if everything be a target and a priority , then nothing be a priority , but I think we can all agree that dementia — the big killer in this country — must be a priority for the NHS . that target for diagnosis rate must come back into the planning guidance next year . indeed , the word " dementia " do not even feature in the guidance , which be shameful , frankly . let I finish by talk about where the money be spend . we can have disagreement about how much be need , but Lord Darzi be very clear that it be not be spend in the right place . too much money in the NHS be be spend on hospital , and not enough be be spend in the community . the Secretary of State will have to take some tough decision , which he accept , and one of they will have to be to reduce the proportion of money spend on hospital . that be politically difficult , but across the House we be prepared to back he , if it be part of a plan to deliver meaningful change and to move more people out of hospital and into community , which be where they most want to be treat . nobody want to be in hospital if they have no medical reason to be there . finally , the Chancellor must understand that every decision she take must be coherent and consistent with deliver the three shift . when she come to the Dispatch Box to deliver the Budget in October , she recognise that national insurance increase be go to be crippling for healthcare . that be why she exempt the NHS from those increase . however , she fail to exempt other key provider of healthcare , particularly in primary care , such as GPs , so it be no good now say that the GP pay deal be a record deal , because the money that they must pay in national insurance contribution represent more than 50 % of the money that the Government have give they . the Chancellor must back up the left shift with the fiscal decision she announce at the Dispatch Box . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , Members may wish to know that , give the time remain for this debate and the number of member who wish to speak , I will be unable to get everybody in , even with a four - minute time limit . I be pleased to be call to speak in this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . when we talk about the NHS , we can argue either about specific investment or about general principle , and like many colleague , I have receive a great amount of correspondence highlight no end of specific area where investment be need . I could also speak about the need to invest in urgent treatment centre in Todmorden , or to celebrate the work of Calderdale and Huddersfield NHS foundation trust — two thing that I continue to raise with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . however , as I have the privilege , along with other , of sit on the Health and Social Care Committee , I want to talk in more broad term about some of the problem face our health and social care system , and about how the propose shift in the NHS need a reprioritisation of resource . I will focus on what I argue be the most important of those shift — the so - call left shift of care from hospital to the community . the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) outline the need for that well — even if to hear he speak one might think that it have come from on high , and not as the result of 15 year of the previous Government . one in 10 people be stick on waiting list in a healthcare system that be become increasingly hospital - centric , and those list will only grow if we continue on the same course . there be no solution to our crisis in emergency medicine without the left shift of solve problem early and close to home . of course we need hospital and to invest in they , but they should be where people go with acute and complex case , not where they go for want of working service elsewhere . despite the need to shift to community care be obvious to just about everyone , one of the most glaring revelation of the Darzi report be how poorly successive government have go about achieve that . meanwhile , we be not train or retain enough gps — that be where the renegotiation of the contract be important . in Calder Valley , the retention crisis have mean that Bankfield and Church Lane surgery , Northolme practice , and Rastrick health centre all have a ratio of patient to fully qualified GPs that be far high than the local , regional and national average — average that simply do not meet what be need from our health service . More than a decade after the Dilnot report , social care remain the forget service — the Cinderella service , as my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) artfully call it . with 1 . 4 million social care staff , our care system be the same size as the NHS workforce , but it receive nothing like the support or understanding of other area of our health system . the consequence be that our Committee , week after week , hear about delay discharge , with 20 % of bed in my local hospital take up by people who should be treat at home or close to home . meanwhile , carer be miss their appointment because they be deliver care to love one , and they end up with bad illness , add to the strain on the NHS . in less than a year , this Government have end the industrial action in our NHS and deliver 2 million additional appointment , and they be now set up a new deal with GPs . however , that can not be the extent of our action . the 10 - year plan can not continue down the same road that the last Government take we on , of try to fix a crisis in the NHS by put more money into hospital and nothing else , because that tackle the symptom but not the cause of the problem . therefore , when set out the estimate , I urge the Minister to be mindful of the shift we need to ensure that funding not only increase , but increase with a focus on community and social care . that be what we need for a sustainable system that will protect the rest of our health service in future , because a sustainable system be the only way to deliver well healthcare and well social care for people across the country . I commend the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) for introduce the debate , and I pay tribute to the retire interim chief executive of NHS Grampian , Adam Coldwells , an outstanding public servant who will be sadly miss when he depart his post . the revise departmental expenditure limit for the Department of Health and Social Care in England see an overall increase in the estimate of around £ 10 billion , and I want to comment on how that affect Scotland generally and my constituency in particular . lest we get giddy about the number , let we think about where that expenditure might be go : salary and wage , price increase — particularly for fuel and food — and certainly more taxis . it be a new definition of the circular economy as I understand it . let we also consider how the change affect our partner in the enterprise of health and social care . GPs , hospice and charity be already face huge financial pressure from rise energy cost , staff retention issue and labour shortage . staff morale be already low and will be far impact by funding cut to the vital service they provide , as money be divert to meet rise cost . then along come the increase in employer national insurance contribution for those partner . when we look across the border into England , we see additional GP contract funding of close to £ 1 billion , which will cushion much of those additional national insurance cost . let I share a local example from Aberdeenshire council , on which I be an elect member for more than two year . the cost to the council of the additional NIC change be about £ 11 million . the council ' s estimate allocation from the Scottish Government to mitigate those additional cost be around £ 5 . 5 million . the difference be stark and can not simply be write off as a Scottish Government responsibility . indeed , as Wes Streeting constantly remind we , all road lead to Westminster when it come to funding . our joint enterprise partner , such as GPs and third sector organisation such as Marie Curie — I see member be wear a daffodil today — or Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland , and local GP surgery in place like Longhaven and Cruden Bay , be pay the price . turn to hospice , the Minister for Care , Stephen Kinnock , state that there will be no additional Barnett consequential — order . I remind the hon . gentleman to refer to member not by name but by constituency . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . there will be no additional Barnett consequential arise for Scotland for hospice . the Scottish Government be invest an additional £ 4 million in the hospice sector , but that wide sector face a £ 2 . 5 million bill from the additional employer national insurance contribution . a flat exemption would mean that they would not have to pay that cost . perhaps also not evident from the estimate be the eye watering cost of agency staff , which be feel no less in Scotland , partly because of the regressive immigration policy of the last Government , which be now pursue by this Government . we have ask for those power to be devolve to Scotland , but if Ministers can not do that , there be an alternative approach — that have already be point out by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . the Royal College of Radiologists tell we that workforce shortfall in radiology be around 30 % , and around 15 % in oncology . it state that the most urgent task face the NHS be to manage its workforce crisis by invest in an increase of 150 radiology training place and 45 clinical oncology training place , rather than rely on outsourcing and international recruitment . of course training have cost , and it be every bit as expensive in Scotland as it be here . in conclusion , through the Minister I say this to the Treasury : do not treat scottish citizen as if they live in some vassal state ; they be taxpayer too . rather than expect we to give you thank , just get your chequebook out because of the pressure that I have list . may I take this opportunity to thank the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , for his work , as well as other member who I sit on the Committee with ? the financial sustainability of our national health service will have an impact on patient now and in future . give that such a huge amount of money be spend by the Government , it be imperative that they focus on value for money for the taxpayer so that , at a time when demand be go up but resource be limited , we can deliver the very good health service that the british people deserve and that my constituent in Barking can rely on . for too long the Department and NHS England have take a short - term approach to budgeting , rely on reallocate capital budget to cover revenue shortfall . between 2014 and 2019 , more than £ 4 billion be raid from the Department ' s capital budget to fund day - to - day spending . as a former council leader , that approach have always be curious to I , give that , as other have mention , local authority be not permit to have the same approach . equally , council be legally oblige to set annual balanced budget , and even when they overspend because of demand - lead statutory service , they can not set deficit budget . another issue my hon . friend may wish to reflect on be that the council tax base differ from place to place , so council be even more disadvantaged than the NHS on funding . my hon . friend make an important point , because health inequality be determine by a multitude of factor and the work that local authority do on public health be crucial too . compare the point I make about local authority not be able to set deficit budget with the situation in the NHS , where every year winter pressure mean that our NHS be at crumble point and that despite the money pour in , the NHS overspend . last year , that overspend be £ 1 . 4 billion , more than double the previous year . those issue have not emerge in a silo ; they be a result of year of mismanagement and fail leadership by former Ministers and by a Government who decide to allow the chaos of one year budget setting , hinder health leader from be able to effectively plan for the future . a lack of political commitment , couple with a refusal to invest in the future , have lead to awful consequence for patient . on the NHS estate , the National Audit Office report show that since 2019 , over 5 , 000 appointment , surgery and other clinical incidence have have to be cancel because of issue in building . that be absolutely shocking , so I take on board the point make by member from across the House . on that point , will my hon . friend give way ? I will not take any intervention at this point — actually , I will . I thank my hon . friend for give way . it be always a pleasure to serve with she on the Public Accounts Committee under the leadership of the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) . she make an excellent point about the raising of capital budget . in my constituency , we have the RAAC - infest Airedale hospital . do she agree that it be only with the new Labour Government and a properly fund and deliverable plan for new hospital that we will see that put right , follow the decision make by the Chancellor to ringfence capital funding ? I be very pleased to have accept my hon . friend ' s intervention and I entirely agree with she . if we want to see an improvement in the estate of the NHS , we need to have money allocate to it . when the NHS be at break point , my constituent have to feel the pain of not be able to get appointment for their sickness . the population I represent already have some of the bad health inequality in the country , exacerbate by the lack of primary healthcare provision . some ward in my constituency have no gps at all , so I welcome the remark make by member from all party about the importance of primary healthcare provision . without reform , the NHS be simply not financially sustainable , but alongside reform there must be a culture of change in NHS England . the Public Accounts Committee report highlight that last year NHS England fail to approve ICB financial plan until month after the financial year have begin . work with local NHS body , we have see example of icb , as other hon . member have say , talk a good talk on prevention and public health , but we see a lack of action from many area on commission in a way that have a positive impact on prevention . I entirely agree with the point the hon . Lady make , but do the impetus not have to come from the top ? unless the Government be make stride to shift money from healthcare to social care , why on earth should any of the icb follow suit ? I do not disagree with that , which be why the Government commitment around reform will be so critical . I sit on the Public Accounts Committee that produce the report that highlight some of those gap . as a Committee , we will be look closely at the reform that have come forward from the Government , and I would welcome further reassurance from the Minister . the Government be right to invest in the NHS to help to deal with the current critical waiting list , but only alongside reform will the additional investment in the NHS be value for money . only through reform can the NHS improve productivity to make it sustainable . I endorse comment make by member from all party about productivity because , without reform , the NHS can not even meet its own productivity target . that be why the estimate under discussion be so important . the 4 . 9 % increase in investment be welcome because it will help to cover the pay review body ' s recommend pay increase for NHS staff , stop the strike , improve staff retention and keep more doctor and nurse at work . that be crucial if we want a properly function NHS . the Secretary of State for Health and Ministers in his team have say time and again that the NHS be beat but not break . these estimate be important because they set the foundation and springboard for what be require to fix our NHS . the Government come into office make all the right noise about tackle waiting list and deliver a well healthcare service , which all our constituent want to see . however , since their election , I be concerned that minister be give out more money — about £ 22 . 6 billion — for the day - to - day run of the NHS , without plan about how that may be spend to reform our health service , make it more efficient and support priority area , such as dentistry , general practice or hospice care . the Government be seemingly give with one hand but take with the other . no one should overestimate the impact of the increase of the employer national insurance contribution on our GP surgery . both Towcester and Brackley medical centre in my constituency have say that that increase will cost at least £ 40 , 000 to £ 50 , 000 and may result in redundancy , stop the growth of their practice . our surgery be not here to make profit , but to deliver care , and attack like this make care unsustainable . the Darzi report say : " the NHS budget be not be spend where it should be — too great a share be be spend in hospital , too little in the community , and productivity be too low . " I agree entirely with what my hon . Friend say , but have she see anything from this government that suggest that there will be a significant shift from acute care in hospital to community care , despite the rhetoric that we have hear from the Government Benches ? I concur that I have not see anything , which be why today ' s debate be so important . my GPs tell I that more attention need to be give to GP practice : they be the praetorian guard who can ultimately protect the NHS . access to timely appointment be crucial , as be rebuild the key relationship and contact between a GP and their patient . under the last government , 20 % of NHS doctor be think about move overseas . do the hon . Lady agree that solve GP contract be a first step towards keep GPs work in this country ? I want to encourage all our GPs to remain in the UK , give back , so I be always fully supportive of anything we can do about that . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . that key relationship and contact between a GP and their patient be reinforce by the Public Accounts Committee report on NHS financial stability , publish in January , which conclude that a reallocation of fund be need to focus attention from sickness to prevention . I be a massive advocate of prevention . many hon . member will know that I talk about be a type 1 diabetic ; if they have not hear I talk about it , they may have hear one of my sensor go off for a low blood sugar . there be so much we could do in preventative measure in the treatment of diabete . treatment can be expensive as an initial outlay , but they will solve many long - term problem . we can not prevent type 1 diabete , but we could have early testing in child , for example , so that we could avoid they be diagnose when in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis , which can be fatal . family could be prepare and ready , and child could avoid hospitalisation , save cost to the NHS while also save life . we can also ensure access to technology that can avoid huge complication . poor blood sugar control can result in loss of eyesight and limb , alongside heart and other condition . make continuous glucose monitor and even insulin pump available across the country can significantly help the patient and , again , in the long term save the NHS money . at the moment there be a very unfair postcode lottery , so I ask the Minister to consider way to tip the funding balance , to ensure both prevention and community care measure be properly fund . finally , any reform to the NHS must consider the computer operating system in place . many of my constituent must go out of the constituency for their hospital care , be it to Northampton general hospital , the John Radcliffe hospital , Horton general hospital , Milton Keynes university hospital or Kettering general hospital , but all those trust operate on different system , with the result that my constituent often can not have their scan or medical note share easily . that be frustrating for resident , and potentially fatal . one resident note that his wife be nearly give a drug that she be allergic to , because her note have not be able to be share correctly — it be only his presence that save she . we must ensure that money be spend to look at that and to change the system , which my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) have explain very conclusively . we owe it to our constituent to work across the House to better our healthcare and to support the fantastic work of our doctor and nurse . I will start to call front - Bench speaker at 3 . 15 pm . in my last career , prior to enter this House , I be incredibly proud to represent our NHS and other healthcare provider , and I will continue to fight for our NHS now that I sit here as an MP . I see at first hand the impact that Tory mismanagement have on our NHS , which breach one of the fundamental principle of medical ethic : " first , do no harm " . I see that at first hand this week in my constituency when I visit Gloucestershire Royal hospital . I also meet with Gloucestershire ICB this morning , and early this year I visit the surgery in Tuffley . the challenge that they face will not surprise anyone in this House , as they be set out in stark term in the Darzi report , and they be replicate across the country in many constituency — maintenance backlog , lengthy ambulance waiting time , recruitment challenge and an ageing and sicker population . what strike I most about my visit this week be the resilience of our NHS staff , who be commit to people in our county and in my city of Gloucester . what a difference a Labour Government be make with more investment in our NHS . waiting list locally be already come down , and patient be now able to access emergency dental treatment , rather than pull their tooth out at home . we have more midwife and dentist and a new GP contract that will help to bring back the family doctor . that be what we can do in eight month — imagine the impact that we could have if we have 14 year , as the Conservative party do . from a personal perspective , I have see how important that work be . I use to joke on the doorstep that I should be a poster boy for why prevention be well than cure — it will not surprise member that I may have a few extra pound that I could afford to lose . sadly , the prevention piece come too late for I ; I be diagnose with type 2 diabete early this year . the treatment I have receive since then have be phenomenal . I be now on the path to remission programme — available in Gloucestershire , but not across the country — which have already bring my blood sugar level down and help I to lose 3 ½ stone . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you very much . it will help countless other across Gloucestershire and across the country . as we move to prevention work , it be so important that we also look at public health measure around diabete ; I echo the comment make by the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) . I also thank all the staff who look after my little boy last year when he be really sick . we need to ensure that when we look at investment in our NHS , we prioritise maternity service and service for the young in our society to ensure they get the healthcare they need . we have talk about british value a lot in this place over the last few month . when people ask I what make I proud to be british , I point they to our NHS — a system without comparison in the world that mean that everyone can access healthcare , regardless of their wealth . I know that Reform member be not in their place today , but they say that all option be on the table . I would like the Minister to make it clear in her remark that stand against our NHS and its principle — be there for everyone , regardless of their wealth — be the opposite of be patriotic and that their option be not on the table . I welcome the record investment in our NHS and the shift from analogue to digital and from cure to prevention . I would also welcome the Minister ' s comment on how we can ensure that we deliver on the people ' s priority in Gloucester . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , for secure this debate and for his excellent opening speech . we all know that we have reach a crisis point across the NHS and care sector , with more patient than ever wait for treatment . that be affect not just those in need of care and treatment , but those who work tirelessly across the NHS and care sector , who be feel the full brunt of the crisis . the Conservatives have a legacy of hour - long wait for ambulance , treatment in crowded hospital corridor — capture in horrify detail by the " Dispatches " documentary , which look into the hospital that serve my constituent in North Shropshire — and community grind to a halt under the weight of all sort of waiting list and backlog . we urgently need to move forward . the Secretary of State have repeatedly outline the need to shift from treatment to prevention and from hospital to community , and the Liberal Democrats absolutely support he in that endeavour — indeed , we call for many measure that would achieve that shift in our own manifesto . strong primary care and community service be the strong recommendation of Lord Darzi ' s report , which be commission by the Secretary of State and have be broadly welcome . there have be a great deal of consensus across the House today that we need to take those measure , but I fear that these estimate paint a picture of an NHS that continue to pour money into the previous , fail model in which capital budget be drain to pay for day - to - day service and a huge proportion of increase spending go on NHS staffing , while community care and primary care provider wrestle with the huge increase in employer national insurance contribution . when that be combine with the decision to scrap target on mental health and community service for the sake of prioritise target on elective care , we must ask : when will the state objective of the Secretary of State really be match by action ? the late estimate be an indictment of the broken state of the NHS after year of conservative neglect , but we urge the Government to go far and fast to address the failure . have hear the hon . Lady ' s comment and the comment of those on the Conservative Benches , may I share with she my confusion ? she seem surprised that she have not hear the full solution of what this government be go to do with the NHS , when it be quite clear that there will be the three shift , a 10 - year plan and a huge amount of reform come down the line . as that seem to have escape the opposition ' s attention , have it also escape hers ? there be clearly a point in the debate at which we need to urge the Government to go far and fast . as a constructive opposition , that be exactly what we will do . primary care provider be on their knee , and I be afraid to say that that have be make bad by the national insurance hike announce in the Budget . they can not meet demand for local appointment as thing stand , and in many case the constrain factor be the estate in which they operate . prescott surgery in Baschurch in North Shropshire want to provide additional service to the community and keep people away from hospital , but the surgery be physically not big enough . a local developer have provide land for a new surgery , and the local council have community infrastructure levy funding for that building , but it can not be do because the ICB will not pay the notional rent , which everybody have agree to forfeit . it be crazy . I hope that the Minister can commit to find some kind of easy solution to that kind of nonsensical situation that we find ourselves in . on the point about the inability of icb sometimes to get thing go , in my constituency it have take the ICB nine month to procure something very similar . do the hon . Lady agree that it be about not just their ability to pay , but their procurement process ? I fundamentally agree . there be many such instance , and I choose that one because I speak to the provider there recently . I will come on to community pharmacy , because I be particularly concerned about pharmacy , which be a key pillar of care in the community , dispense prescription and provide over - the - counter medicine and advice . critically , they also provide Pharmacy First , but they be close at an alarming rate . analysis by the National Pharmacy Association predict that another 1 , 000 pharmacy will close — 900 of they by the end of 2027 — if the current rate of closure continue . that be because of a 40 % real - term cut in their funding since 2015 . in fact , community pharmacy be essentially subsidise the NHS by make a loss on many of the prescription drug that they dispense . in a few week ' time , in April , they will be clobber by not only the NICs hike , but the increase in business rate , which will affect high street retailer . shamefully , they have not even have their funding rate for the current financial year confirm — the one that end in three week ' time . Pharmacy First , the flagship plan to move care into the community , have not have its funding confirm beyond the first week of April this year , which be in just a few week ' time , accord to the National Pharmacy Association . in her remark , will the Minister confirm the future of Pharmacy First ? be there a fund plan to deliver that service ? what step be be take to keep our community pharmacy in business ? if we want to see care in the community , it be essential that we support they . I want to mention dentistry . in Shropshire , Telford and Wrekin , the number of NHS dentist fall by 12 . 3 % from 2019 - 20 to 2023 - 24 . many of my constituent can not access a dentist , and the Government have commit to improve the situation , so can the Minister confirm when the negotiation on the new dental contract will begin ? the crisis that the social care system face be daunt , not least because of the additional national insurance hike that will take place in a couple of week ' time . last week , caring organisation launch an unprecedented day of action , with thousand of people march on Westminster to highlight the precarious state of the organisation that provide care . the Darzi review find that people wait to access social care account for 13 % of NHS hospital bed . we all understand the urgency of tackle social care , but the cross - party talk collapse last week — they have not start . there be no date for a new meeting , and there be no publish term of reference . we think that 2028 be far too late to resolve this problem , so can the Government urgently reinstate those talk and act now to deal with the social care crisis ? before I conclude , I will talk about mental health . as Lord Darzi have say , " there be a fundamental problem in the distribution of resource between mental health and physical health . mental health account for more than 20 per cent of the disease burden but less than 10 per cent of NHS expenditure . this be not new . but the combination of chronic underspending with low productivity result in a treatment gap that affect nearly every family and all community across the country . " he be dead right . by April 2024 , about 1 million people be on a waiting list for NHS mental health service , of whom 340 , 000 be child . my casework be full of child who wait month and month for the diagnosis and treatment that they need . the Government have remove the target for mental health waiting list ; I urge they to reinstate those target , so that we have parity between mental and physical health in our health service . I be very conscious of time , so in conclusion , I will just reiterate our ask . those be to ensure that social care talk start immediately ; to deal with the problem with pharmacy ; and to make sure that mental health and social care receive parity . I call the shadow Minister . I draw right hon . and hon . member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a consultant paediatrician . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) on secure this important debate on the finance of the NHS . Labour say that it have a plan to reform and improve our NHS . unfortunately , it have become clear from the series of consultation — on the NHS plan , the 10 - year plan , the patient safety review , lead the NHS and the independent commission to transform social care , to name just a few that be in progress — that Labour do not have a plan , other than to get into power and then consider what its plan should be . as my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds have say , we need improvement in productivity , technology and long - term investment . I completely agree , and as a medic I could give many example of wasteful spending , especially in relation to paperwork and increasingly inflexible guidance and procedure that be well - mean but often unhelpful . there be general talk of productivity improvement from Government Members , but few specific . I would be grateful if the Minister could provide any specific in her closing remark , but let we see what the Government have say and do so far . in the autumn Budget , the Chancellor announce that overall NHS funding would be increase by £ 22 . 6 billion over two year — for this year , that be £ 10 . 6 billion . the Government be ask we to welcome that extra money . it sound great , but be it extra or not ? Julian Kelly , NHS England ' s chief financial officer , tell the Health and Social Care Committee that the propose 2 . 8 % pay rise for 2025 - 26 would cost £ 3 . 8 billion . the NICs pressure be worth around £ 1 . 7 billion , alongside £ 1 . 9 billion in non - pay inflation , £ 0 . 8 billion for the GP settlement and £ 3 . 5 billion for basic demand growth in the NHS . right hon . and hon . member will note that those figure add up to more than £ 10 . 6 billion , and with the union have threaten to strike again for even great pay award and with Labour ' s propensity to capitulate to the union , it be likely that that figure will increase . can the Minister confirm whether the £ 10 . 6 billion that labour talk about will really lead to an improvement in service , or will it merely cover inflation , tax rise and the pay rise give by the Labour Government to their union paymaster ? rise — I will give way in a moment ; let we first look far at those tax rise . it be clear that the Chancellor have not properly consider the effect of the nic rise on the wide healthcare system . for example , the Government have exempt the NHS from that tax rise , but that exemption do not cover general practice , hospice , charity , many social care provider — include many care home — air ambulance charity , dental clinic , opticians , private healthcare provider , agency staff , local pharmacy and other supplier and contractor , to name but a few . I be sure that the shadow Minister be about to come on to this in her speech , but give that she have just criticise this Government for lack a plan — a plan that be about to come forward to the House later this year — surely she will now put forward her plan for how much extra the Conservatives propose to put forward for the NHS and how they would pay for it , and explain why they do not do that for the past 14 year . if the hon . Gentleman look back at the figure , he will see that there have be a substantial real - term increase in NHS funding over the past 14 year . that can not be say for this year , potentially , which be why I be ask the question . perhaps I will ask the shadow Minister an easy question , then . she have just reject the pay deal that this Government have agree to give a proper reward to our nurse and doctor . by how much do she think that pay deal should be reduce to bring it in line with her policy ? if she be oppose to the deal that have be agree , she must have an alternative in mind . one of the key thing about the Government ' s deal be that they have give in on money without ask for anything in return in term of productivity . the Government need to agree a pay deal that be sensible and affordable , not talk about the money that they be give to the NHS while take away with the other hand in taxis . let we hear what some healthcare provider have have to say about the implication of Labour ' s nic rise for their constituent ' healthcare . the Royal College of General Practitioners have warn that the NICs increase will force GP practice to choose between redundancy and closure . the hospice sector believe that the cost of national insurance rise could be £ 30 million a year . the Government have give that sector a capital grant worth £ 100 million , which be welcome and will improve facility ; however , if those facility be empty and can not be staff , they will not deliver much in the way of improvement . air ambulance be also under threat from the Chancellor ' s rise in national insurance and taxis in last year ' s autumn Budget , with the local service in my constituency , Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire air ambulance — which be entirely charitably fund — need to find another £ 70 , 000 just to pay for those national insurance rise . the Independent Pharmacies Association estimate that the rise in employer national insurance contribution and the minimum wage will cost the average pharmacy over £ 12 , 000 a year , total more than £ 125 million for the sector as a whole . Nick Kaye , chairman of the National Pharmacy Association , have warn that " pharmacy face a financial cliff edge at the beginning of April , with a triple whammy of rise National Insurance , National Living Wage , and business rate all arrive at once . " what impact will this have on our constituent ' health ? the Government talk a good talk about bring healthcare close to the community , but action speak louder than word , and put extra pressure on community - deliver service be not a good way of deliver their aim . the Nuffield Trust suggest that the national insurance rise alone will add a £ 900 million burden to the adult social care sector . with other new cost factor in , the care sector be believe to be face a bill of an additional £ 2 . 8 billion , dwarf the £ 600 million extra allocate to the local authority responsible for provide social care . this will have a devastating knock - on effect : the amount of care that can be buy by local authority will fall , the cost of private care will rise — so more people will be reliant on the state , rather than the private sector — and the waiting list that the Government claim to prioritise will also rise . the Nuffield Trust warn that many small care provider will either have to increase price , stop accept council - fund patient , or go bust . that will have a knock - on effect on the hospital sector , as people be unable to be discharge because there be not adequate social care for they . the Government talk about create a new national care service , but they have manage to damage the exist one by hike the cost bear by care home through national insurance rise and other tax and wage increase . in January , the Government announce a deal with private hospital in an attempt to cut waiting list . the deal , which sound good to start with , would see private hospital be pay for each patient that they treat , incentivise they to treat as many people as possible . however , the Times report that NHS England have recently cap the amount that each hospital can be pay . the chief executive of the Independent Healthcare Providers Network have warn that the policy will actually lengthen waiting time . will the Minister comment on that ? the Minister be focus on prevention , but when the Government announce that they would be cut the overseas development aid budget by 40 % , the Prime Minister say that the UK would continue to play a key humanitarian role on a range of issue , include global health and challenge such as vaccination . I would appreciate clarification from the Minister on whether the global health budget will be cut , or whether the cut will be make from other aspect of the ODA budget . Workforce be the key asset of the NHS , yet sickness level be run at around 5 . 5 % , which be a considerable cost to Government and drag on productivity . they vary considerably across trust and profession , with consistently less than 2 % of consultant off sick , but almost 8 % of ambulance support staff . if those rate could be reduce , it would lead to improve productivity and patient be treat much fast . what be the Minister do to look at that ? perhaps she will have another one of her review . the hon . Member have frequently be quick to criticise nhs pay rise . will there be more or few sickness absence in the ambulance service if its staff be well pay ? be the hon . Gentleman suggest that whether someone become ill be entirely dependent on whether they get another 2 % in their pay packet ? I be not sure that it be . the Government promise a great deal when they come into power last July . since then , they have hand out inflation - bust pay rise , raise cost and abandon election pledge . at the centre of the Government ' s approach be a classic socialist trick — a sleight of hand , take money away from NHS provider in taxis with one hand , and expect praise when they give some of it back with the other . the public will see straight through it . let I begin by thank the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , for open the debate . as a Public Accounts Committee alumna , it be my pleasure to have my first outing at the Dispatch Box for this debate . I also thank all other colleague for take part . the number of right hon . and hon . member who have contribute today speak to the significant interest in our health and social care service not only in this House but in the country . the wide range of issue raise show how broad and overarch our NHS and social care service be . I will try to cover as many of those issue as I can , and if I miss anything , I will happily pick it up with hon . member afterwards . I will also attempt to respond to all hon . member who have speak , but if I miss anyone , I hope they will forgive I , because we have have so many contribution . the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , as well as the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) , my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) and for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and many other member , talk about social care . Productivity be a key point mention by the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , as well as by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) and my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) . prevention in public health be raise by many member — as the Minister responsible for those area , I be delighted to discuss that . my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) talk about dentistry , and shift be mention by many hon . member . my hon . friend the Member for Barking talk about the work not only of public health but of local government , and the role of icb . it be great to hear my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) talk about his pride in the NHS . this government will always stand by our NHS and will always keep it free at the point of use . in her autumn Budget , the Chancellor take the necessary decision to put our NHS on the road to recovery , with an increase of more than £ 22 . 5 billion in day - to - day health spending and over £ 3 billion more in the capital budget over this year and the next . thank to she , we be take the first step towards fix the foundation of our NHS and make it fit for the future . I say to the shadow Minister that yes , this will make a difference , because it be not just about the money but about make the right choice . will the Minister give way ? I will , but very briefly , because we have very little time . I thank the Minister , and welcome she to her place . this , I think , be the fundamental point that conservative be make . we all accept that we want to see a shift from acute hospital provision to social care , but when the Chancellor ' s Budget do not reflect that and when the national insurance rise hit the social care end of the spectrum , how can the public have faith that what the Minister say be anything more than rhetoric ? I be come to all of that . since come into office , the Government have make choice . we have end the resident doctor strike . we have publish our elective reform plan , which will cut maximum waiting time from 18 month today to 18 week by the end of this Parliament . we have introduce investment and reform in general practice to fix the front door to the NHS and bring back the family doctor . we have start to get waiting list fall , and we have keep the promise in our manifesto to deliver an extra 2 million appointment in our first year , a target that we have actually smash in the first seven month . anyone who think the Chancellor be wrong to make the necessary decision and trade - off must explain what they would cut from that list . anyone who think they could have achieve everything we have do in less than a year without the autumn Budget be live in cloud cuckoo land . today we be set out our supplementary estimate to the House . funding will help the NHS to deliver 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week , and to make progress on reduce the number of patient who wait long than 18 week between referral and consultant - lead treatment . we will publish our departmental budget for the next financial year in the spring through phase 2 of the spending review . will my hon . friend give way ? will the Minister give way ? I will give way very briefly . the Minister will have note , on page 53 of the estimate , a £ 1 billion decrease in capital spending in the departmental account . will that be explain , and can the Minister explain now how new hospital constitute day - to - day spending ? I will be come to that , but I thank the hon . Lady for raise it . we have talk about productivity , an issue that have be raise by many member include the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I be delighted that member on both side of the House , include Conservative Members , have now recognise and accept the value of the Darzi report , which this government commission . we be commit to meet a 2 % productivity target by 2025 - 26 . to help we to achieve that , there be a £ 2 billion investment in NHS technology , allocate to free up staff time , ensure that trust adopt electronic patient record — we have hear a great deal about old - fashioned paper today — and enhance cyber - security measure , while also improve patient access to service via the NHS . the current measure of health productivity datum do not capture all the output and outcome adequately , and NHS England be work with the Office for National Statistics and the University of York to refine those metric . reform be at the heart of our 10 - year plan . we be rebuild our capital - starve NHS through £ 1 . 6 billion of national capital funding in 2025 - 26 , which will help we to achieve constitutional standard . the money will help to deliver more than 30 , 000 additional procedure and more than 1 . 25 million diagnostic test as they come online through investment in new surgical hub and diagnostic scanner , new bed across the estate , and a £ 70 million investment in new radiotherapy machine to improve cancer treatment . question have be ask about the shift from capital to revenue . some of investment have meet historic need , include capital funding for technology and new hospital programme , but because of the nature of the funding it need to be define as revenue . it be still be spend on those programme . the autumn Budget include a commitment to ban shift from capital to revenue , and I can confirm that no shift of that nature have take place since then . I will now give way . I be most grateful to the Minister for give way to I and not to an Opposition Member this time , splendid though they be . the Minister probably share my great disappointment when the last government put no money into the new hospital programme and throw Charing Cross hospital , in my constituency , out of the programme . may I share with she my delight that the Government have put Charing Cross back into the programme and be fund it , with a timetable that the last Government fail to deliver ? everyone know that the previous Government ' s promise of 40 new hospital be a fiction : there be not 40 , they be not new , and many of they be not even hospital . we have put the programme on a firm foot with sustainable funding , so all those project will actually be deliver . in response to the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , I be more than happy to work with the Committee to clarify the funding for NHS provider . I understand that there be already quite of lot of information in the public domain , and I be more than happy to have that conversation with she . on financial lever and incentivising prevention , the 10 - year health plan be really the driver of all our shift — from analogue to digital , from hospital to community , and from sickness to prevention . it will set out how we achieve transformational change . as part of that , the plan ' s work group be look at how payment mechanism , fund flow and contracting will need to change to build a health system that be fit for the future . on enic , we have be here before . the Government will provide support to Departments for additional enic for public sector employee , and commission service be all subject to local negotiation with provider . I want to move on to public health , in which I take a particular interest . I agree with hon . member on the importance of public health investment . in 2025 - 26 , through the public health grant and the 100 % retain business rate arrangement for local authority in Greater Manchester , we be increase funding to £ 3 . 858 billion — a 5 . 4 % cash increase , and 3 % in real term . it be a priority for this Government to confirm future year allocation as early as possible , and we will seek to do that . it be a priority of mine . we have talk a lot about social care . Louise Casey command great respect across political party , the Government and the NHS , which be why she will lead the independent commission on adult social care as part of our critical first step towards deliver a national care service . she will begin her work in April , draw on people who need care and their family , staff , politician , and the public , private and third sector to inform the recommendation on how we rebuild adult social care . I welcome the Minister to her place and congratulate she on her new role . on build a national care service and the Casey review , will she reassure I and other Members of the House that there will be a first - phase report in 2026 to inform the spending review , and that we will have action soon than the 2028 final report ? I can confirm that , as have already be state , those interim report will take place , with a view to inform spending review . I want to pick up on the point make by the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) about the cross - party talk . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State write to colleague from all the UK - wide party to invite they to joint cross - party talk in February . not everybody be able to take part — a significant number of people be not — and we think it be really important to have a wide range of view at such talk . we have take the decision to reschedule they , but we will make sure that they take place . we be seek to reorganise those talk at the early opportunity , and I can confirm that the intention be to go ahead with they . we have commit to look at how we can far expand the role of pharmacy and well utilise the clinical skill of pharmacist , and we have now resume our consultation with Community Pharmacy England regard the funding arrangement for 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . I be unable to say any more on that until the consultation have finish . to wrap up , we be undertake the large capital investment in our national health service since Labour be last in office , but if we be to deliver our promise to the british people , we must deliver fast improvement than even the last Labour Government achieve . investment and reform be what we promise before the election , and investment and reform be what we be deliver . we will ensure that the NHS be there for people when they need it ; we will tackle the big killer , such as cancer ; and we will create a fairer Britain , where everyone live well for long , while make sure that every penny of taxpayer money be well spend . I commend the estimate to the House . I shall be brief . I thank the Minister for her very comprehensive reply , and I congratulate she on her new role . I also congratulate everybody who speak in this debate ; there be some excellent speech . can I ask the Minister to thank her official for appear before my Committee ? it be very much appreciated . I also thank the member of the PAC , a very hard - work Committee that produce two major report a week , and in particular my deputy , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . to sum up , as I say in my speech , productivity be the key to long - term reform of the NHS . increase fund at 4 % per year in real term when the economy be grow at only 1 % in the long term be unsustainable , so something have to be reform in the health service . as I do in my speech , I ask the Minister to consider produce a productivity plan , so that , without all the argument with the Office for National Statistics and everybody else , we can see the DHSC ' s good estimate for productivity gain over the next five to 10 year , and can start to see how such goal will be meet . in such a productivity plan , modern digital technology will be really important . the Minister skate over one word that I be really concerned about , which be " cyber " . we have a wake - up call with WannaCry two or three year ago . the NHS have some very important personal datum , so it be vital that we move towards modern machine that can withstand cyber - attack well than some of the analogue equipment in the NHS . it have be a great debate , and I be sure that the Minister will have plenty to think about . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 13 January 2025 , on the work of the British Council , HC 609 ; oral evidence take before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 18 and 27 November 2024 , on the work of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , HC 385 ; oral evidence take before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 19 November 2024 on the future of the BBC World Service , HC 384 ; correspondence between the Foreign Affairs Committee and the British Council on the work of the British Council , report to the House on 4 March 2025 ; correspondence between the Foreign Affairs Committee and the BBC on the future of the BBC World Service , report to the House on 4 March 2025 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 592 , 196 , 000 be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 439 , 129 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 862 , 823 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Stephen Doughty . ) I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for select this subject for this very timely debate , which be in my name and the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . I also thank the member of the International Development Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee for their support in secure it . let I start this debate by welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase our defence spending ; that be long overdue and much need . however , there be no need to announce a decision on where the funding be come from before the spending review or , indeed , before the defence review conclude . it will not surprise the House to learn that I will use this debate to argue that the decision to take all the defence uplift from official development assistance be wrong . when the former US Defence Secretary General James Mattis be ask in Congress whether it be wise to properly fund international development work , he reply : " if you don ' t fund the State Department fully , then I need to buy more ammunition " . it pain I to say so , but the Prime Minister be set exactly this dangerous course for the UK . by plan to take 40 % out of ODA , he be take the axe to our most effective tool for reduce global conflict and for increase our national security . do not take my word for it . instead , consider this warning give last week by General Richard Dannatt , the former Chief of the General Staff : " every pound we cut from development aid today risk cost we far more in future military operation … slash aid far to fund defence spending be not just shortsighted — it be dangerously counterproductive . " he add : " we be set ourselves up for great instability , which will require even more military spending in the long term … if we cut aid , we will be force to deploy military resource in area where we could have mitigate instability through target development . " I urge the Prime Minister to recognise that if we abandon our commitment to the world in this way , we will see great number of people displace from their home as a result of climate disaster , poverty and war . More people will lose hope , and will instead look to extreme ideology for the answer , and civil society will no long have the skill to hold rogue government to account . it concern I greatly , as it should the whole House , that the Government have yet to carry out an assessment of the impact of their decision , which have be rush through without proper scrutiny . I urge Ministers to study carefully an analysis by the one Campaign , which demonstrate the real - world impact of cut ODA assistance from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 3 % of national income . it have calculate that if the 40 % reduction in UK aid be distribute evenly across global health and food programme , there will be nearly 40 million few child immunise ; 600 , 000 few life will be save because of reduced support to the Global Fund to fight AIDS , TB and Malaria ; and almost 300 , 000 few school child will receive nutritious meal and essential food assistance through the World Food Programme . I appreciate that the Prime Minister have pledge to protect what he consider to be the most vital area of spending — Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine , vaccination and climate — but as the powerful resignation letter write by my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , the former development Minister , lay bare , that is , sadly , a delusion . as my right hon . friend , who know the reality well than anybody else , have write : " it will be impossible to maintain these priority give the depth of the cut ; the effect will be far great than present … it will likely to lead to withdrawal from regional bank and a reduced commitment to the World Bank ; the UK be shut out of numerous multilateral body ; and a reduced voice for the UK in the G7 , G20 and in climate negotiation . " I thank my hon . friend for her work as Chair of the International Development Committee , on which I sit . early today , I have the privilege of meeting representative from Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance , to hear at first hand about its lifesave work . Gavi have , of course , play a pivotal role in ensure that million of child worldwide receive vaccine against deadly disease , protect global health and prevent pandemic . do she agree that we need to make an urgent commitment to the Gavi replenishment , which be under debate at the moment ? I thank my hon . friend and fellow Committee member . as he be well aware , the Committee be do a value - for - money inquiry , and Gavi be one of the good way to get value for money by vaccinate child around the world . it be not just that the House want that commitment to Gavi and all other body . do the british public really want we to step away from the international stage , and to lose all our soft power and ability to support the most vulnerable in the world , so that they can lead a healthy , prosperous life ? my hon . friend be make an excellent speech and case against the cut to aid . she know that the world ' s most vulnerable child include disabled child . the Government ' s disability inclusion and right strategy be go a long way towards support those child through healthcare , and when it come to social protection . do she agree that unless we get clear assurance , many million of disabled child will end up suffer great loss ? brilliant organisation such as Able Child Africa , which be base in my constituency , be deeply concerned about the impact the cut will have on disabled child . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the work that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have do to protect the most vulnerable — I be think particularly of child , people with disability and people in marginalised community — be exemplary , but I can not stand here and say that we will be able to continue fund that . I just do not think it be technically possible . research commission by More in Common have find that 55 % of the british public support the UK give both humanitarian and military aid to Ukraine , and that more than half believe that aid spending be worthwhile if it help to boost the UK economy and protect national security . even with a reduce aid budget , much well decision can and must be take go forwards . in recent year , a scandalously large amount of ODA have be divert primarily to the Home Office to support asylum seeker and refugee in the UK . in 2023 , this take up 28 % of the entire aid budget , cost £ 4 . 2 billion . it be welcome that the proportion of the ODA budget spend domestically be set to decrease very slightly this year , but unless these cost be reduce significantly in the next two year , the UK be set to spend nearly half its remain ODA budget on domestic refugee cost by 2027 . that can not be right . of course , these people need support , but that should not come out of the ODA budget . I urge the Government to cap the amount of ODA that the Home Office can draw on for in - country refugee cost ; if they do not , there be simply no incentive for the Home Office to address its spending . the Home Office be , of course , not the only Department raid aid . the Departments for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , for Education and for Science , Innovation and Technology all regularly draw down ODA and do not , in some case , deliver as well or as transparently as the fcdo . will the Minister comment on take these programme back into the fcdo , or ask the Departments to reimburse at least part of the finance that they draw down from ODA ? the supplementary estimate see a boost in the fcdo ' s allocation of headline ODA spending for this financial year . however , a large proportion of this increase — almost £ 500 million — be send to British International Investment in what appear to be a last - minute panic to ensure that the Government fulfil their commitment to spending 0 . 5 % of national income on aid . do not get I wrong : BII do excellent work invest debt and equity in business in the develop world for the long term to facilitate beneficial and developmental economic growth . however , it be not set up to take immediate and short - term investment decision , and should not be expect to do so . debate be also ongoing over give BII the ability to borrow against its investment ; in the fiscal circumstance , I urge the Minister to look at that closely . there be a number of issue on which the Government could consider change policy and legislation , include debt relief , illicit finance and special drawing right . that could have significant impact on the life of the poor in the world , at no expense to the british taxpayer . could the Minister also comment on potential multiplier of aid ? I be think specifically about philanthropic match funding and UK Aid Match , which could be use more readily . this year ' s estimate enable the fcdo to continue to employ world - lead expert in development aid . in a rapidly change world in which we face huge challenge , maintain this expertise be not a luxury but a necessity if the UK be to achieve global progress and safeguard our collective future . despite the damage do to its budget , the fcdo must prioritise protect its skilled staff , who offer so much to low and middle - income country when deploy effectively . my Committee and I be with fcdo staff in Scotland when these cut be announce last week . staff be understandably devastate , with this announcement add considerably to the uncertainty they have face over the past five year . the good way to retain our staff , and indeed our international reputation , be with clarity about the forthcoming spending cut . will there be a define step down or a cliff edge to funding in 2027 ? a commitment today that the budget will be 0 . 4 % — or more — in ' 26 - 27 would be hugely reassuring , as would confirmation that there will be no additional cut in the spending review for this financial year . I urge that an equality impact and risk management assessment be do , and present to the House , before the Government make their tough decision on what to cut and what to save . in the 2021 round of cut , we see funding for woman and girl cut by 66 % from its peak in 2017 . let we never do that again . from 2023 , the UK be the 10th large spender of aid as a proportion of its gross national income . a cut to 0 . 3 % will leave we in 25th place . that be simply unacceptable for a nation with such a proud history in help those most in need and a Government who be rightly place themselves as a leader on the international stage . I wish to finish with the powerful word of a speech deliver in this Chamber on 13 July 2021 , when the Conservative Government ' s decision to reduce aid spending from 0 . 7 % to 0 . 5 % be confirm . the House be tell : " cut aid will increase cost and have a big impact on our economy . development aid — we all know this — reduce conflict , disease and people flee from their home . it be a false economy to pretend that this be some sort of cut that do not have consequence . " the speaker continue : " our overseas aid budget go beyond that moral obligation : it also help build a more stable world and keep we safe in the UK … this cut will also reduce UK influence just when it be need most , and of course it risk leave a vacuum that other country — China and Russia , for example — will fill . " — [ Official Report , 13 July 2021 ; Vol . 699 , c . 177 - 178 . ] that speaker be the then Leader of the opposition put forward an inarguable case against the folly of make massive aid cut . his word be as true now as they be then . may I urge the Minister and the Government to listen to the word of the then Leader of the Opposition , the now Prime Minister , and reconsider this ? colleague can see how heavily subscribe this debate be . I need to fit in another debate before 7 o ' clock , so many colleague will be disappoint that they will not be call to speak . they can judge that as they may . we shall set a speak limit of four minute so that I can get as many people in as possible . it be a pleasure to follow the brave and principled speech of the Chair of the International Development Committee . the Government be absolutely right to increase defence expenditure , and President Trump be right , too , in say that Europe must shoulder the burden against russian imperial expansion . but development should be part of that strategy . development , defence and diplomacy be intertwine . I remind everyone that the development budget tackle conflict , help build well society and build prosperity . it help tackle migration , disease , medicine , education , vaccination , growth , job , British International Investment — I do not entirely agree with the hon . Lady on this , because BII be an outstanding example of british success in development — transparency , accountability , and anti - corruption . all be independently verify by the Independent Commission for Aid Impact , which be the taxpayer ' friend . that be what development do and it ought to be unanswerable that this be of vital importance . the cut from 0 . 7 % to 0 . 5 % be terrible , but we do manage to find a number of ingenious way of augment that money through guarantee , co - financing , insurance , and the use of special drawing right , but the reduction to 0 . 3 % will destroy any incipient recovery . and , as the hon . Lady say , who will fill the gap ? it will be China and Russia . it will be music to the ear of the many terrorist organisation that exist across sub - Saharan Africa . the failure to do some of the thing that the hon . Lady set out so clearly will result in the clarion call of the terrorist be hear . furthermore , the stopping and starting of development be very bad value for money for taxpayer . I know that Foreign Office Ministers will have fight against this terrible decision and it give I a chance to pay tribute once again to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the civil servant and diplomat who work there . it be the fine diplomatic corp in the world . I also want to pay tribute to the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) whose principled and brave resignation letter will serve she very well . we all know that this be an example of the iron fist of no . 10 cynically conquer the extremely good argument put up by the Foreign Office , to take the low - hang fruit . in my view , that be entirely wrong . many be horrify to see a Labour Government behave in this way , bludgeon development , which be already badly damage by the abolition of the Department for International Development and the previous cut in the last Parliament . I ask colleague on the Labour Benches to make a principled decision and ensure that their voice be hear in government . they should imagine those Prime Ministers who really drive forward international development and the cause of development , turn Britain into a development superpower : Prime Minister Blair , Prime Minister Brown , Prime Minister Cameron and Prime Minister May . those four premier drive the cause and do so much good , save so many life . I very much hope that Labour Members will exert influence and explain to the Government why this be the wrong decision at the wrong time and that it must be reverse . since the election of the Labour Government last July , I be proud to say that Britain be back on the world stage . when we be at our good , we be a respected and influential global player . we have many thing to our advantage : we be the bridge between the US and Europe ; we have a place on the Security Council ; and our security service and defence be very respected . under recent government , it must be say that we lose our way , fight among ourselves about Brexit and everything else and threaten to break international law , but under this government we be take a lead again . the question be : be we go to step up to the challenge ? we be more than capable of that , but we can not do it on two Chewits , a button and a postage stamp . alongside a pivot to hard power , the Prime Minister have set out his priority for the reduce aid budget : Gaza , Sudan and Ukraine . to achieve peace , we need that investment in hard power , but if we abandon Britain ' s soft power strength we can not secure it . in Ukraine , for example , political and financial investment and military might be key to end the war , but when we reach the ceasefire , there will be shockwave across eastern Europe that must be absorb . there be many way in which Russia will continue on the offensive , and that be not just about tank ; it be about misinformation , tell lie and try to influence people by not tell the truth . the good way to counter that be to tell the truth . how be we go to tell the truth ? well , we could rely on the BBC World Service , which be internationally respect and recognise . there be nothing like the BBC World Service , yet we spend only £ 137 million on it , which be give from the Foreign Office , and roughly 80 % of that come from ODA . Russia and China combine spend more than £ 8 billion each year on their state medium . when we vacate the airwave , which we have do , Russia move in and take over the same frequency . I entirely endorse what the right hon . Lady say about the BBC World Service . there use to be a ringfenced grant for BBC Monitoring as well , but now that fall on BBC general income and expenditure . do she agree that that monitor service perform an equally crucial role to the World Service in term of open source information ? I do , although I think that the role have change give the rise of the internet . if we lose the World Service , will this be remember as the moment not just when Britain abandon Africa to the Chinese , but when we abandon our historic role of tell the truth and speak the truth of a united west around the world ? the second priority for the aid budget be Gaza . I visit Jordan last week with the Foreign Affairs Committee . Jordan , which rely on US and UK aid , have absorb over 2 million palestinian refugee . its continued stability be fundamental to a last peace in the region . can that be guarantee if we no long have a humanitarian budget to spend on it ? the third priority from the Prime Minister be Sudan , where we be the penholder and we face a situation where Russia have secure a Red sea base that it have long covet . the situation remind I of warning give by Lord Dannatt , the former Chief of the General Staff , that every pound cut from spend on development today risk cost we more in future military operation . soft power be not just a nice - to - have ; it be core to peace and security . I have look into the number follow the late cut , and after take into account the ODA money spend on asylum cost as well as our commitment to the UN and the like , we have only about £ 1 billion leave for the Foreign Office to spend on overseas aid . be that really go to be enough , even just for those three priority and the money that need to be spend on that ? I be concerned that the ODA cut will not be the last of the challenge . there be also rumour that the Foreign Office be expect cut , on top of those , of between 2 % and 11 % . in that scenario , it will sell its building . will embassy shrink ? I be concerned that we will lose the British Council , which only receive 20 % of its funding from the fcdo and generate the rest of its income itself . I trust that an enormous amount of work be be do on the detail of the cut , but at the moment , we have hear nothing more than an aspiration about where the other funding will come from . I fear that we may look back at this time and say to ourselves , " this be when Britain leave the world , " and yet , it really should be the time when we be able to say , " Britain be back , and we be back as a force for good . " let I begin by say that the decision by the Government to increase defence spending , fund in the short term by a cut in the ODA budget , be the right one give the current global context . it be an immediate solution that be necessary to bolster our defence budget to send a clear message to our ally and our adversary alike . Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine have bring a state of war back to Europe , but the security challenge we face as a country do not stop with Russia . Iran continue to be a destabilising influence in the middle east and globally . meanwhile , China ' s grow influence demand our attention . the rule - base international order , which the UK proudly defend , be under threat from many side . a strong foreign policy start with hard power . that be why I support the Prime Minister ' s decision to reallocate ODA to the defence budget , and I agree with my hon . friend the Leader of the opposition when she call for that in advance of the announcement . it be important that we respond to the challenge of the day with a well - equip , well train and well support armed force . our adversary need to know that we have a credible deterrent , and our ally need to be able to look to we as a leader in Europe on defence . it be clear that we be live in a time of mount geopolitical tension and without a credible foreign policy strategy , those drive global instability will continue to gain ground . a successful long - term foreign policy strategy must recognise that hard and soft power be inseparable . as be refer to early , it be the retired US general and former Defence Secretary James Mattis , who say , " if you don ' t fund the State Department fully , then I need to buy more ammunition ultimately . " these be exceptional time , but as stability return to Europe , I urge the fcdo to prioritise restore a strong ODA budget . it be critical that if the ODA budget be to be spend on defence in the immediate term , that money be spend directly on enhance our national security and strengthen our armed force , and not on the Government ' s foolhardy decision to cede british sovereignty over the Chagos island to Mauritius , in a deal that be likely to cost the british taxpayer billion of pound , all at the expense of our security and strategic interest . with a substantially reduce ODA budget , it be critical that it be spend effectively . it can not be right that a third of the overseas development assistance budget be spend here in the UK on support refugee and asylum seeker . it be clear that we need to rethink where our priority for the remain ODA lie . one important area of ODA funding , which the Foreign Affairs Committee have be investigate as part of our inquiry into soft power , be the BBC World Service . with unreliable source seek to undermine our value , the World Service be on the frontline , so I encourage the fcdo to continue support it , especially as new challenge in information dissemination arise . the consequence of disinformation gain traction be severe and we must safeguard that key asset in our soft power arsenal . the line between hard and soft power be increasingly blur , yet they must complement each other to be effective . it be necessary to divert funding to meet security challenge . now the fcdo must rethink how to preserve our soft power , tackle urgent issue such as disinformation and ensure british taxpayer ' money spend overseas serve our national interest . above all , we must use those resource to expand our global influence and enhance our security in the face of evolve challenge . I would like to thank the Clerks of the Foreign Affairs Committee , of which I be a member , and the International Development Committee for their support , and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for secure this supplementary estimate debate . late last year , the Foreign Affairs Committee hear evidence from the Foreign Secretary and the now former permanent under - secretary . it be a valuable opportunity for Committee member to hear , in the word of Sir Philip Barton , about the " tough choice that have be make and will continue to have to be make " . those be the tough choice on our spending , on the aid budget , on investment spending and on our soft power resource . those tough choice be not new , but in these volatile time when the power of diplomacy and our soft power matter more than ever , they can have seismic impact . in 2011 , under the coalition Government , the BBC World Service have to eliminate five language service due to cut of £ 46 million per year . this include the entire BBC News service in North Macedonia . coalition cut to grant funding from the Foreign Office mean that this trust service with extensive reach — one in every eight Macedonians listen to the BBC — have to close . at the time , the country be attempt to join NATO and the EU . Russia be oppose . since this cut , North Macedonia have be subject to a decade - long propaganda campaign from Russia — a campaign of misinformation that have spread fake news on covid , amplified regional tension and demonise NATO and our european ally . in the past year , the UK have deploy military expert in disinformation to counter the malign influence of Russia on the western Balkans — an influence seek to destabilise our entire continent . the example of North Macedonia show that we can not risk a fractured approach . cut the BBC World Service , a globally trust news source , and neglect our soft power while our defence spending be counter misinformation do not seem the right thing to do . the absence of the BBC World Service allow our adversary to step in and fill the vacuum leave by the UK ' s withdrawal , as be allude to by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . there be real danger when we allow hostile propaganda to go unchallenged . it have be describe as a tsunami of bad actor . when conservative cut force the BBC World Service in the middle east , BBC Arabic , to cease broadcasting , the same frequency be take over by Russia Today and Sputnik . the global director of BBC News tell the Foreign Affairs Committee that , on the day of the walkie - talkie explosion in Lebanon , that frequency be " essentially russian propaganda " . Russia be invest in disinformation to target arabic - speak audience and to create false pretext for its invasion of Ukraine . disinformation have real - world consequence , and where UK soft power retreat , hostile state step in . they be pump in billion of pound because they know what be at stake : the battle for the truth . future assessment of funding for the World Service must consider the impact on international and national security of disinformation in our world . this be just one example that demonstrate that our national defence and our spending overseas be both vital for this nation ' s long - term security . I be pleased to see the Government ' s commitment to BBC World Service grant funding reflect in the FCDO supplementary estimate . we know that there be tough choice to be make , we know that there be those who wish to do harm to Britain and we know that the defence of our country in an ever more dangerous world be essential , so we must put Britain ' s defence and Britain first . I be also pleased to see that , despite this , the Government have reiterate their firm commitment to prioritise programme in Ukraine , Sudan and Gaza . there be clearly many strategic calculation to be take into account , but the impartial and trusted journalism of the BBC World Service be an antidote to disinformation . the risk from malign actor who want to undermine democracy will not go away any time soon . I strongly urge Ministers to ensure that assessment of funding for the World Service take into account the national security consequence of disinformation . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office play a vital role in support and protect people around the world , uphold Britain ' s diplomatic presence and promote our value and interest . in my short time on the Foreign Affairs Committee , I have be repeatedly strike by the impressive quality of the people we be fortunate enough to have work on our behalf around the world . however , even as we face increase geopolitical instability , transactional diplomacy and war in multiple region , the financial pressure on the Department be test our ability to play the role that Britain should be play in the world . for over a decade , the maintenance of the fcdo overseas estate , which include 6 , 000 property across 180 country , have be fund through the sale of asset . that be not a sustainable model , and the reality be that there be no more silverware leave to sell . give evidence to the Foreign Affairs Committee , Sir Philip Barton , the then outgoing permanent under - secretary , acknowledge that the current funding structure will not work for much long . the cost of essential maintenance be estimate to be £ 250 million a year , and that figure be only rise . from next year , the ability to draw down from receipt of previous asset sale will disappear completely . unless the Treasury allow for that additional cost in future budget , the cost will have to be meet by cut elsewhere in an already overstretch Department . this issue go beyond brick and mortar . the UK ' s overseas presence be a direct reflection of our diplomatic standing and soft power . we can not expect our embassy to champion british interest when they be in dire need of investment . the Foreign Secretary himself have recognise the need for a sustainable funding settlement and highlight the condition of our estate in China as a particular concern . the Government must set out an alternative long - term funding model — one that do not rely on the fire sale of national asset . at the same time , we must address the deeply concern cut to ODA . the UK have long be a world leader in international aid , and we be the fourth high donor in absolute term . the Government ' s decision to reduce our aid budget risk undermine our ability to deliver on those commitment and the one we have make to the world ' s most vulnerable . the Prime Minister have rightly state that the UK will prioritise Ukraine , Sudan , Gaza , climate finance and global health , but with a shrink budget , deliver on those priority will be close to impossible . I recognise that difficult choice must be make to stand firmly with our ally in Ukraine during this critical time . our support for the ukrainian people must be strong and unwavering . it be a sad indictment of the current state of global affair that in a war between the west and Russia , the first to withdraw from the fight be the United States . it be therefore even more vital that we increase defence spending to ensure that our ally around the world know that they can continue to rely on Britain in this increasingly unstable world . the answer , however , be not to cut ODA . the Foreign Secretary himself warn of the risk of step back from development aid . the reality be that budget cut will severely limit our ability to counter malign influence and to support fragile state . my party have warn that the UK ' s decision to reduce its aid spending will " leave a vacuum for Russia and China to fill " . it be worth reflect on the fact that UK service personnel be obviously key to the defence of our country , and those cut start during the time when the Liberal Democrats be in government . the hon . member talk about his party regret the action of this Government . do he regret the decision to start cut our service personnel from 2010 onwards ? I be not go to waste time re - argue the coalition year — we have a global crisis happening . either we all work together on this , or we keep nit - pick over the past . that be not the way to go forward . I urge the Government to look at liberal Democrat proposal to fund the much - need uplift in defence spending not by cut vital overseas development aid , but by reverse the tax cut for bank introduce by the previous Government and by tax the social medium company that , even now , be profit from spread disinformation on behalf of our enemy . we must work together to secure a sustainable funding model for the fcdo — one that protect our overseas estate and ensure that our diplomat have the resource they need to represent Britain effectively . find a pathway to a just peace in Ukraine , a workable solution for the palestinian and israeli people , security for Europe and a united global approach to tackle the climate crisis , as well as the many other issue face the world right now , in the face of a US Administration seemingly intent on join malign state like Russia and Iran in reject international norm , require the UK to be centre stage in international relation . have a Foreign Office able to project british influence have never be more important . I urge the Government to set out a clear path on how we will maintain our diplomatic and development commitment in this increasingly uncertain world , and to ensure that Britain do not become just " some random country " but continue to play its historic role in global affair . I will start , as many member have , by recognise the urgent need to increase defence spending . over recess , I go to Ukraine for a week — it be an existential crisis . if Ukraine fall , I be convinced that the baltic state will be in Putin ' s line of sight too . like other in this House , I be obviously extremely pained by the decision to partly get there by cut aid to 0 . 3 % . member will know that I spend my career prior to come to this House in international development . I set up the Labour Campaign for International Development and have the privilege of work for former Prime Minister Gordon Brown , who do such great thing to lead on the world stage in this area when he be Prime Minister and Chancellor . I want to offer my expertise to the Government to find a way through this . I recognise that , across the House , and particularly on the Labour Benches , there be other member who , like I , have expertise in development , and we offer ourselves to the Government to find way to make the good of this bad situation . the first point that I want to make be about front - load multilateral commitment into 2026 . we know that the ODA budget will go down to 0 . 3 % of gross national income from 2027 . we believe that by front - load some of our multilateral commitment — to the Global Fund , for example — we can get round the cliff edge and help the large number of people for the long possible time . I know that there have already be discussion about the budget potentially go down in 2026 . I urge the Government to look at other option so that we can keep aid spending at 0 . 5 % for as long as possible . my second point refer to the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) about asylum cost . we strongly urge the Government to consider those cost and to reduce as quickly as possible the amount be spend in the UK . every penny spend in the UK be not be spend help the most vulnerable . to deliver that , the Government could formally budget for and commit to project reduction in in - donor refugee cost , with any overspend fund from outside the aid budget and any underspend provide to the fcdo as additional ODA resource . my third point , which I will not talk about for long because I know that my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) have do a lot of advocacy on it , relate to the £ 2 . 5 billion of Chelsea FC money . the soon we can get it into Ukraine and humanitarian aid the well , because it should , in theory , free up ODA money for other situation around the world . my final point be that we now must focus time and effort on alternative form of ODA spending . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , particularly in his role as chair of the MP group on the World Bank , have some fantastic idea about how we might be able to use thing such as special drawing right . I know that other colleague be work on debt relief , which could offer alternative sort of development financing . on alternative , do my hon . friend agree that it sometimes create a false dichotomy to separate defence and ODA ? in a human security approach , when there be crisis such as conflict , famine or pandemic , we can utilise our force to go in and deliver aid , as well as utilise traditional ODA . my hon . friend make an interesting point , which I hope he will get to make in more detail in due course . in the time available to I , I will carry on with a few other suggestion . another suggestion relate to British International Investment . I be not here to criticise the work that it be do , but the point of ODA be first and foremost to help people in extreme poverty . although admittedly it have improve , BII have a track record over the year of not necessarily focus on the very poor in society . for that reason , I think the Government should look at way of make BII capitalisation additional to the 0 . 3 % . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , if the right hon . Gentleman do not mind . the justification for that could be that the BII make capital investment , which be ultimately an asset on the Government ' s balance sheet , and that finance do not count towards the Government ' s budget deficit . that could be one way of justify such a measure without go against the Government ' s fiscal rule . I have only 30 second leave , so I will end where I start . other member have make point about how aid be in our national interest , and they be right to say so . for I , it have always be about how we can ultimately benefit other human being . where we be bear be an accident ; I be privileged to live in what I consider to be the good country in the world , but many be not . we must do everything we can to support the most vulnerable . that a Labour Government , after all they say during their year in opposition , have decide to take essential life - save overseas aid away from the poor people on the planet be truly astonishing and utterly shameful . they know that remove £ 67 billion of overseas aid will have devastating consequence . it will mean that the world ' s poor child will go unvaccinated , million of girl will go uneducated , and project set up to help community recover and protect themselves from climate change will come to an end . there be no run away from the fact that million of people , mainly child , will die or have their life permanently change as a result of that decision . nor can the Government escape from the fact that this be a premediated political decision take by a Labour Prime Minister . that Prime Minister have try shamefully to frame this debate as an either / or — we either spend the money on defence , or we spend it on overseas aid — but that be palpably not true . indeed , it would be laughably disingenuous be it not so serious . if we be — and I agree we be — head into uncharted water for european security and defence , the Government need to rip up their self - impose fiscal rule and have an honest conversation with the public about what must be do . explain to the public that with an emboldened Putin , and with America no long a trustworthy or reliable ally , we in Europe have to look after and fend for ourselves , and that be go to mean tough choice . this be morally reprehensible . the Government know that cut overseas aid will make we less secure . as the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) say , if they need convincing , they should read the Prime Minister ' s speech from 13 July 2021 , when he lay it out line by line . it be an excellent speech — Labour Members should read it — but I just wish he have mean it . absolutely no one believe that we can make ourselves safe and more secure by make the world ' s poor even poor . when the Prime Minister announce the decision to increase defence spending by cut overseas aid , he attempt to justify it , say that it could only be fund " through hard choice " and that this be a " difficult and painful decision " for he . well , it be not nearly as painful or as difficult as it will be for million of impoverished child who do not know where their next meal be come from , for girl who do not know when they will next be able to go to school , or for child who wonder why their sibling be die of preventable disease because they have not be vaccinate , or where their father have go when he have go to Europe to try to find work . Prime Minister , save I your crocodile tear about this be a " difficult decision " . this be not a difficult decision ; this be an easy option . let I begin by declare that I chair the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , an organisation that have do incredible work around the world and be partially fund by the fcdo . the Foreign Secretary be right last week when he state that realism include be clear about what our value be . the reality be that alongside the military security gap leave by the approach of the US Administration , we must also fill the gap in support for accountability , inclusion , and the rule of law . this be about UK security and prosperity . our ODA budget support stability and alliance that be critical to our national interest . we be lose the battle for heart and mind in many part of the world , while our rival help friendly ruler , silence opposition , control the medium and outlaw NGOs . if we do not step up , other will fill the vacuum . the WFD be part of the answer . it operate in 50 country , strengthen democracy and the rule of law . its fcdo grant this year be about £ 8 . 5 million , with additional country - specific grant to maximise the impact globally . however , funding cut be already hit we . the WFD ' s spend review bid for flat cash of £ 8 . 5 million in 2026 - 27 would fund programming in 20 country and 14 global initiative on artificial intelligence in Parliaments , public debt , climate , electoral integrity and woman ' s political leadership . its reach would be significant : 5 , 000 - plus participant , half of they woman , would engage with over 1 , 600 parliamentarian , 2 , 400 parliamentary staff and 1 , 700 political party official . this work deliver result , include anti - corruption reform , improve rule of law , climate legislation security and a strong UK relationship with democratic leader . however , inflation could leave a funding gap of over £ 500 , 000 , equivalent to 70 % of the WFD ' s work in the Indo - Pacific . we can not afford to let that happen . invest in democracy be invest in the UK ' s security , prosperity and global influence . with so many bad - faith actor now in the world , and with a constant assault on democracy across the world , the important work of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy be vital and should be protect . I share the horror , outrage and deep disappointment and disillusion - ment of many hon . member in the House , across many party , and of people across the country at the Government ' s terribly short - sighted and counterproductive decision to fund great investment in defence through slash the development budget . like many hon . member , I know how important the development budget be because I spend practically my entire career before I come to this place work in that field . I have see it face to face and on the ground . I know that invest in health , education and nutrition help increase human security for the long term , and that invest in conflict resolution , peace building , democracy support , and woman ' s and girl ' right build human security globally and make the world , and we , more secure in the long term , as well as in the short and medium term . so it be impossible to understand why the Government have take this incredibly counterproductive decision . the three d ' s of defence , diplomacy and development be unite : they work together . we can not possibly increase one by slash another . it be unbelievable that this decision have be make , because it be so unnecessary . a member on the Government Benches talk early about need to " send a clear message " , but what be the message that have be send by this decision , which follow in the slipstream of President Trump ' s block and dismantle of the United States Agency for International Development ? it be the wrong message . member on the Government Benches — indeed , the Prime Minister himself — have talk about " tough choice " , but it be a wrong choice , because there be an alternative . we do not have to fund this investment on the back of the poor and most marginalised . there be other choice available to we . we should ask those with the broad shoulder to bear the burden of increase investment in defence and security . our neighbour in France be do exactly that by look at wealth taxis . in his summing up , will the Minister explain why the Government have decide to fund investment in defence by undermine diplomacy and development in slash the aid budget , leave we all more insecure in the long run ? I be a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , and we have hear from fcdo representative about the important work the Department do and how essential it be for the Department to have the resource to execute its work effectively . the world be witness a watershed moment unfold before our very eye . the world order be visibly in the process of be challenge , and it be transform all aspect of organise human life . that provide an immensely challenging environment for foreign policy , from war in Sudan , Gaza and Ukraine to concern about climate change . last week , the Prime Minister demonstrate strong leadership and reinforce that we have a strong presence in the global arena , which highlight that we must continue to remain actively engaged and agile in our foreign policy . the Prime Minister ' s commitment to increase defence spending in light of the volatility be the right one , but while I recognise that defence spending be important , so too be international development , particularly give the diplomatic soft power that it lend the UK . as we navigate these change and unpredictable global power dynamic , international development be an area of historical strength for we . UK aid make the world safe and save life , and cut support for country that need it the most will only add to insecurity worldwide . we have hear from voice outside the aid sector , as colleague refer to early . Lord Richard Dannatt , a former head of the British Army , say that " cut aid risk make we weak , not strong … well - target aid prevent conflict and reduce the burden on our armed force in the long run . " analysis from the one Campaign support that ; its evidence demonstrate that every 80p spend on activity that spur economic growth and political stability can avert spending of up to £ 80 on future conflict . cut the aid budget will undercut our ability to build global partnership and alliance . when the UK help country to adjust to climate change and to grow and prosper , we build our relationship and our influence . when country such as ours withdraw , China and Russia stand ready to step in . I turn to the impact that the cut will have on a specific group : woman and girl across the world . as we celebrate International Women ' s day later this week , it be critical that we stand up for protect gender equality with the UK ' s ODA budget . that include improve access to education and maternal healthcare , prevent and respond to malnutrition and gender - base violence and combat early marriage and female genital mutilation . when ODA be reduce , we know that woman ' s equality programme be the first to be cut . when a cut be implement in 2021 , 41 % of initiative for woman and girl be the first to be lose . when government take action to close gap and eliminate barrier for woman and girl , to realise their right to live safely and to learn and earn equally , we create safe , healthy and wealthy society . the UK ' s leadership in international development have long be a source of national pride and global respect , and we should not now head in the opposite direction . if we be to see a decline in aid to support the world ' s most vulnerable community , the Government could show serious ambition to reform the global economy , which could include tackle the break global debt system to enable the country most in need to emerge from poverty . fix global debt for develop country could be achieve by compelling private lender operate in the City of London to co - operate in debt relief negotiation . it be a particular pleasure to follow the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , and four fellow member of the Committee . I make it clear that I strongly support the increase in defence spending to 2 . 5 % of GDP . I fear that that may not be enough and that we will have to spend more if we be to maintain our security against the threat that be now clear . I therefore accept that part of the funding of that need to come from ODA , although I feel the pain of both the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) . that make it even hard to swallow the £ 9 billion bill we face pay to maintain a base on the Chagos Islands . I will focus specifically on soft power . I welcome the establishment within the fcdo of the Soft Power Council ; it be very important that strengthen hard power should not be at the expense of Britain ' s soft power . a number of member have already talk about the BBC World Service , which be one of our great asset . it be very welcome that in the Budget , the Government increase their contribution by £ 32 million , but it be concern that the BBC recently announce a reduction in its contribution of £ 6 million , with the loss of 130 job . while all 42 language service be be maintain , the World Service defence committee have already point out some of the damage that those reduction will do , with the loss of regional editor , science coverage and business programme . I be particularly concerned about the letter that the Chair of our Committee receive a few day ago from the director general , in which he say : " in the last few day we have be ask to prepare for further engagement with the fcdo on the impact of the reduction in Overseas Development Spending . " I would like the Minister to assure we that there will be no reduction in the Foreign Office ' s funding of the BBC World Service . indeed , I hope he will give serious consideration to the BBC ' s request that in the long term , the Government consider take on the full funding of the World Service . we on the Committee have also hear from the British Council , another aspect of soft power . it be absurd that the loan of £ 250 million give to the British Council have to be renew each year , create huge uncertainty . I hope that a solution can be find to put that funding on a long - term basis . I finish by refer to an issue of huge concern to I and many other : medium freedom . both this Government and the previous Government have very good record on support medium freedom around the world ; we set up the global Media Freedom Coalition . however , as the Minister know , medium freedom be under huge threat . I urge the Government to continue to press the case of Jimmy Lai , a british citizen imprison in Hong Kong , and of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , a british citizen imprison in Egypt . the Minister also know that in Ukraine , 97 journalist have be kill since 24 February 2022 , 12 while on duty , and the most recent withdrawal of funding — that of usaid — will put at risk over half the media outlet that be bravely report what be happen in Ukraine . I hope that the Minister can provide support to they , too . I call Blair McDougall . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be appropriate that we have such a distinguished internationalist in the Chair for this debate . [ interruption . ] that do not get I any extra time for my speech . I recognise the impossible decision that the Government have to take , but I hope that we do not set up a false dichotomy in which we believe that our moral preference have to be at odd with our strategic interest . I recognise , though , that the Government be make budgetary decision in response to very painful real - world event that be take place every day . I represent many of the fcdo worker from East Kilbride , and I myself work for 10 year deliver aid . I do not want to repeat what other say in plead for the international development budget , but I want to ask the Government about one thing , and perhaps challenge they on it . if , as the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) say , we be not still the development superpower , what be our offer to the global south ? we know what Russia ' s offer be : blood for gold . it will kill your enemy for you , through mercenary , and take precious mineral out of your country . we know what China ' s offer be : infrastructure in return for debt that keep you in its power . we can not offer violence , and we can not demand subservience . it seem to I that our offer be value , but value need to be project through vehicle . in the time I have , I want to mention two of those vehicle . I add my voice to those of right hon . and hon . member who have speak in defence of the BBC . other have speak about how development help to save money on defence . that also work the other way around : when defence fail , development pick up the piece . if we need one example of that , we can look to Afghanistan . when we leave Afghanistan , we leave behind the BBC World Service . it be now the only broadcast journalism in the country — the only thing that be still there , say to those people , " we have not abandon you . " the cut that we be discuss imply very deep cut to the World Service , which I hope we will not see . the second thing I want to plead for be the democratic infrastructure that support dissident and democrats around the world — the people I work with . as we stand here , that infrastructure be be dismantle because of Elon Musk ' s vandalism . the most extraordinarily brave people I have ever meet be be utterly abandon . I congratulate the hon . member on his contribution . he and I disagree on a lot , but not on this . will he pay tribute to those who work with the conflict , stability and security fund , which be particularly important in all the area that he rightly touch on ? I be very happy to do so . the hon . Gentleman and I have work closely together on Georgia — a country in the backyard of Vladimir Putin that be on day 96 , I think , of huge street protest , all for lack of the cost of a single storm shadow missile in recent year . we can not fill all the gap , but I hope that we can triage , and can look at place such as Ukraine , Georgia , Moldova and Belarus , where a small amount of money make an enormous amount of strategic difference . if invest in arm allow we to fight , we must remember to invest in the reason why we want to fight in the first place . the fundamental weakness of the authoritarian with whom we be in this unspoken war be the same . every act of brutality be a confession of their weakness . they know that if their people be free to choose , they would not choose the form of Government that be there . all that those authoritarian offer be corruption , violence and brutality against their own people , who will choose to be on our side in the global fight , but we need to put in the resource to make that case every single day around the world with confidence . like everyone in this House , I stand in full solidarity with Ukraine and recognise the threat pose by hostile actor such as Putin . I agree that UK defence spending must increase to enhance our national security . however , the decision to raid the development budget do not increase security . it do the very opposite . decrease overseas development assistance be utter folly , and it fundamentally undermine effort to bring about justice , peace and security in the world . the Prime Minister know that . he stand in this Chamber and criticise Boris Johnson and the previous Conservative Government when they make their first cut . he make these very point . he be elect on a manifesto that pledge to rebuild Britain ' s reputation for international development , with a new approach base on genuine respect and partnership . we all agree with the need for that . instead , in a fashion that have become typical of his leadership , he have u - turn on his promise , and go even far in make cut than the Conservatives be willing to go . put simply , this decision by the Prime Minister be a death sentence for hundred of thousand of people . it will have a devastating impact on million of the world ' s most vulnerable and marginalise . child will go hungry and will miss out on lifesave vaccination . they will die as a result . girl will lose access to education , family planning and reproductive health clinic . as a consequence , they will be force into early marriage and will have an increase risk of be victim of gender - base violence . refugee will lose access to accommodation and vital support service , and will be displace once again . the Prime Minister have renege on his promise , and the UK Government have abandon their moral duty , all without any impact assessment whatsoever . they have do this with a callous disregard for the life of other throughout the world . it do not have to be like this . in 2023 , Germany , our G7 european ally , spend 0 . 82 % of GNI on ODA , while other such as the Netherlands , Ireland , Denmark , Sweden and Norway spend great percentage than the UK . we be all face the same threat , so why be the UK the only one cut back ? I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response to that . the Prime Minister have once again seek to appease President Trump , and to follow the leader of Reform and short - sighted right - winger who believe that those in the rest of the world simply do not matter , and that our action abroad have no impact at home . it be wrong . the UK ' s role in the world be build on hard power , soft power and diplomacy . as a former member of the International Development Committee , I travel around the world , and hear of the devastating impact of the UK ' s first cut to ODA in 2020 . I hear how trust in the UK have be erode , and I hear directly from leader of country who be increasingly turn to other , such as China and Russia , to fill the void leave by the UK ' s absence . the threat that we face be interconnect and disregard international border . we have face a global pandemic and we will encounter more . we be in the midst of a climate emergency , which be not go away . we be experience war in Europe and a challenge to the rule - base system . these issue should be a catalyst for increase development aid and for solve these problem collectively , but tragically , this Labour Government be follow in the footstep of the Conservative Government , who use covid as an excuse to make cut . Labour be use defence spending as its excuse to step away when it should be step up . this madness must stop . all of we in this House must come together and find another route for finance defence spending — a route that be in our national interest . this simply can not come to pass without a fight . I thank the Chair of my Select Committee for secure the debate . twenty year ago , the word of Nelson Mandela ring out just down the road in Trafalgar Square . he call on the world to " make poverty history " , state that " as long as poverty , injustice and gross inequality persist … none of we can truly rest . " I hope we remember those word as we continue this conversation . I do of course welcome the uplift in defence spending , but to someone like I who have campaign and work in international development for year , the decision to cut aid be , as the Prime Minister himself acknowledge , very painful . when I think of why our aid matter , I think of the woman I meet in Dadaab refugee camp , who have finally secure some safety after year of uncertainty . I think of the child be vaccinate against life - threaten disease . I think of the response to the Ebola crisis , which not only save life in the country affect but protect we all . I think of our development work as not only lifesaving , but a form of international insurance for we all . UK aid constitute about 1p in every pound of public spending , and , as we have hear before , it bring a huge return on investment . it be a down payment to prevent the spread of disease and conflict , to tackle the upstream driver of migration , and to increase prosperity . I say that because many of my constituent write to I urge I to speak today , but I think we receive far few email about aid than about other matter . as we continue this conversation about the very difficult choice that have to be make and other form of financing , we must continue to make the case for aid , both in its own right and in our own interest . I do not want to repeat all the point that have be make , but I think we need to focus on a few key issue . as the Chair of the Select Committee emphasise , the timeline be key , and I hope that the Minister will respond on that . can we expect aid expenditure to remain at 0 . 5 % next year and the year after , before we get to 0 . 7 % ? that could save billion of pound and million of life . I would not like to be in the Minister ' s shoe , because these be difficult if not impossible decision , but will the House be update on the spending criterion that will be use ? will it be a decision between bilateral and multilateral , between one country and another , and between this or that programme ? as my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) point out , there be expertise , and we hope to work with the Government constructively on this . UK legislation already set out what we need to consider . minister must be satisfied that our aid " be likely to contribute to a reduction in poverty " , and be provide in a way that contribute to reduce gender inequality , as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) . that focus on woman and girl be vital . I back the call from many non - governmental organisation , include care and UNICEF , for a new commitment to target at least 20 % of bilateral official development assistance on gender equality , and I hope that the Minister will respond directly to that call . I echo what have be say about the need to reduce the amount of money spend in this country on refugee cost . accord to the most recent figure , it be 28 % of the aid budget . I know that our Government be commit to bring down that spending and tackle the backlog , but the soon we can do that , with a clear commitment that the money will go back to the aid budget , the well . I hope that the Minister can update we on the conversation with the Home Office about that . there should be a whole - Government approach take , involve the Treasury , the Home Office and development . we must leverage other form of financing . I be short of time , so I will just mention debt . we have do a great deal on that before as a Labour Government , and I hope we will do so again , because 32 african country be spend more on their external debt than they can spend on healthcare and education , which be a scandal . I hope we can also do more on remittance . we know how much be send overseas from diaspora community here ; the cost of do so be still far too high , and reduce it would not be a cost for this Government . these be indeed challenge time , and I appreciate that these be tough choice , but we must retain a clear commitment to return to 0 . 7 % as soon as circumstance allow . we be an internationalist party that believe in the power of aid , and we will fight to ensure that remain the case . East Kilbride in my constituency have a long and proud history as a key part of the UK ' s international development effort . generation of dedicated civil servant have work there to tackle global poverty , strengthen partnership , and uphold Britain ' s reputation as a force for good in the world . however , I must express my deep concern about the fact that the Government be on the verge of sever that proud connection . the propose closure of the overseas development office in East Kilbride be a mistake , not just for my constituent but for the integrity of Britain ' s global development work . let I be clear : East Kilbride be not a suburb of Glasgow . it be a town in its own right , designate as part of the new town movement by the post - war Labour Government . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I will not , for reason of time . East Kilbride be Scotland ' s second large town , with its own economy , its own economy , its own identity — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it really a point of order ? yes , it be . as far as I be aware , it be not true that the office in East Kilbride be be close . it be be move to Glasgow , and I be advise that the Government have no plan to change that arrangement . the point of order be note , but that be not a matter for the Chair . time be limited , so we will go back to Joani Reid . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as I say , East Kilbride be not Glasgow . close the development office and shift the job to Glasgow be not just tinker with the administration of the fcdo ; it be a blow to our community , which have build itself around the development opportunity that the office provide . it be take well - pay , skilled job from a town and centralise they in a city — the kind of decision that too often leave town behind . I know that many of my hon . friend share my concern about the hollowing out of town such as East Kilbride , and I urge the Government to think again . the decision to close the development office have be make at a moment of deep uncertainty for the civil servant work in international development . the Government have already make this very difficult and painful decision . it be not a decision that I celebrate , but I support it , because governing mean take tough choice , not easy one . however , close the office and move it to Glasgow , at a time when there be such deep uncertainty about the international development budget and no clear evidence that it will do anything other than cost money in the immediate term , be ill advise . labour have a proud legacy , build by pioneer such as Judith Hart , and we must not allow it to be weaken by short - term thinking . we be now in an era where word be not enough and an era of show , not tell . if we really believe in the role that East Kilbride can continue to play in shape Britain ' s international engagement , the answer be clear : take the closure off the table , and use the money to focus on the announce priority in international development . I support the Government ' s increase in defence spending from 2 . 3 % to 2 . 5 % of GDP . I would like to see they go far , and for it to rise to 3 % as soon as possible . there be an urgency to increase defence spending , and it would have be wrong to wait until the spending review later this year , yet the reduction in development assistance be the wrong place to look for the money . it be not only devastating for humanitarian project and development assistance ; it have significant geopolitical consequence . for year Britain have lead the way in provide development assistance to country in desperate need , help they to develop while also strengthen our global influence . however , with both the US and the UK now cut back on aid , we risk create a vacuum that will be fill by authoritarian actor . country that be previously align with the west will have little choice but to shift fully towards country that be hostile to the UK . this be not speculation , because I make my observation base on historical precedent . in 2021 , France suspend € 10 million in aid and halt military co - operation with the Government of the Central African Republic . the Central African Republic seek alternative partner , include for security , and go to Russia ' s Wagner Group . Wagner deploy mercenary to support Government force in their fight against rebel , solidify Russia ' s role in the Central African Republic . Russia then secure economic resource and mineral resource , such as gold and diamond , from the Central African Republic . when Russia expand its foothold in Africa , it gain both economic leverage and political influence , and the political shift be apparent in the Central African Republic ' s voting record at the United Nations . historically , the Central African Republic align with the west in support key resolution , such as on the continuation of the UN Observer Mission in Georgia . more recently , on critical UN vote — for example , the vote on Ukraine at the General Assembly — the Central African Republic have either abstain or vote against resolution condemn Russia . we be also see that elsewhere — for example , with China ' s belt and road initiative . it be well know that China have deepen its tie with both Tanzania and Zambia by invest in road , port and energy project . meanwhile , western influence in those country have wane , with China emerge as their primary partner . we have see senior zambian Government official , include Ministers and permanent secretary , participate in training programme focus on governance in Beijing every year , thus push China ' s authoritarian ideology and influence across Zambia . historically , when the west withdraws , China and Russia step in , and that be exactly what will happen with the cut to the fcdo budget , particularly the cut in development aid to 0 . 3 % of gdp . to conclude , let we not erode democratic value across the globe or weaken our ability to advocate for a fair and more democratic world , because that be also in british interest . rise — order . we be drop the time limit down to three minute . in the uncertain global situation we currently live in , I welcome the announcement of increase defence spending . I be sure it will also be welcome by 63 Military Intelligence Company in my constituency of Stourbridge . it be base at the Army reserve centre , with minimal permanent staff and more than 90 reservist from across the Black Country and beyond . it be great to see a female officer lead the Remembrance Day parade this year — a celebration of its diversity and strength . as part of the increase defence spend , we must harness the power and skill of british business . last week , I visit Welin Lambie , the UK ' s leading designer , manufacturer and service provider of davit , winch and lift appliance for the global marine and offshore industry . found in 1901 , the business find a home in Brierley Hill in 1989 . it proudly employ over 40 local people and train multiple apprentice each year . I be impressed to hear that it source nearly all its material from within a five - mile radius , and it be the lead supplier to the US navy and the US coastguard . Welin Lambie be keen to break into the UK defence market , but when under the previous Government it bid for Ministry of Defence contract , it narrowly lose out to a spanish firm . I also welcome the Government ' s continued support for Ukraine . last year , I have the opportunity to visit , and some of the thing I see and hear will never leave I . we visit a child ' s hospital in Kyiv that have be bomb by Russia just a few week before , show that , by target civic infrastructure , Russia be not even follow the rule of war . I meet the strong and most resilient people who be steadfast in their continued fight against russian aggression , and ukrainian mp who be battle against russian propaganda and misinformation on a new frontier of digital combat . I also meet ordinary people help one another rebuild their home and village , and doctor and nurse treat and rehabilitate the ever - grow number of casualty . on a visit with the mayor in Chernihiv , it be clear that funding to Ukraine be not always reach the people who need it most — ordinary hard - work Ukrainians — and I urge fcdo minister to ensure that fund send to Ukraine be fairly distribute across the country to the community that need they most . it be disappointing to hear that the increase funding will come at the expense of ODA , and I be still not convince it be the right thing to do . I understand that security at home be of vital importance , but should we as the Labour party really be cut support to some of the world ' s most vulnerable people ? there be crucial work happen in develop country in health , education and climate change , and abandon that work leave a void for Russia and China to fill . what do it leave for our support for Gaza , Sudan and beyond at a time when the US be pull its aid ? invest in international development be an important contribution to security both at home and abroad . I believe the UK ' s international development spending must be use effectively , with a primary focus on poverty reduction , and we must reverse the ODA cut and get back to 0 . 7 % of GNI , which be probably our proud achievement as Liberal Democrats in the coalition Government . we must put the United Nations sustainable development goal at the heart of our international development policy , include access to clean water , sanitation , health , education and achieve food security . however , for now we be where we be , and with our total aid budget likely to be cut to around £ 9 billion a year , we must strive to get the very good value for our money — not just for the sake of the Exchequer , but for the massive good that british aid can still do in the world if it be not squander . for example , approximately £ 4 . 3 billion be spend on asylum seeker arrive in the UK each year , a large proportion of the overall aid budget , leave only £ 4 . 9 billion for actual aid work overseas . now that budget have be far deplete to increase defence expenditure , it be vital that we bring down the cost associate with asylum seeker urgently . that could be do in the following way . asylum seeker arrive in the UK illegally , in small boat or by other highly dangerous mean , need protection . they need support , they need compassion — they be people — but what they do not need be to be put in hotel with no plan for their future . as anyone who have be coope up in a hotel for more than a few week will know , that will cause their mental health to suffer , and their drive and determination to wane . asylum seeker come here full of hope for a well future for themselves and their family . they want to work . we should give they the chance and the support to do so , instead of leave they in administrative limbo in hotel around the country , cost the taxpayer billion . if they have the chance to work their way into our society , instead of remain a burden on the Exchequer and a burden to themselves , it would free up a large part of the remain aid budget that could be spend on improve life in the develop world , so that people do not need to risk their life to come here in the first place . People come here risk their all and that do not cease once they enter our border . to protect they from the clutch of human trafficking — [ interruption . ] I have well sit down . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for secure the debate . the enormity of the challenge face the world right now can seem somewhat overwhelming . we be all , at vary speed , suffer from the existential threat of climate change . we live in a global economy that be stack in favour of the few , to the detriment of the many . these issue be drive force for the volatile , unstable world we live in today . our Government ' s attitude to the international community and how we tackle our own domestic issue of increase inequality should , therefore , be shape by the principle of human right , compassion and social justice — the very principle our party and our wide movement be found on . to cut overseas aid be a moral failing . foreign aid should not be consider as an expense to be cut . it be an investment in global stability , security and a commitment to make the world a well place . as with all cut , whether domestic or foreign , it will be the poor , the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable people who will be hard hit . tomorrow , we have the International Women ' s Day debate . woman and girl in conflict - ride area such as Sudan , Yemen , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Syria and Gaza absolutely need our help . cut aid in those region be not just short - sighted . it will abandon and consign million to persecution , famine , illness and death . the Government claim the cut be necessary to fund an increase in defence spending , but frame thing in that way be , frankly , wrong . cut international development , as many hon . member have mention today , do not strengthen our security — actually , it weaken it . aid be a strategic investment in our long - term national interest . we have see the United States slash its foreign aid budget . AIDS and HIV clinic in Ukraine , Uganda , Liberia and South Africa be run out of medicine . in Sudan , 80 % of emergency food kitchen have be shut down . People will starve because of the american decision . let we not make that same mistake . international leadership be desperately need , arguably now more than ever . the UK cut overseas aid damage our credibility and diminish our role on the world stage . let we lead by example , not retreat into isolation . let we reaffirm our commitment to be a force for good : a nation that stand up for its value , its security and , frankly , our global responsibility . I implore the Minister and the wide leadership to restore the UK ' s overseas development aid budget . twenty year ago , I join the Royal Marines . roughly a year later , I be deploy to Afghanistan . I remember the challenge we face : daily attack from rocket and mortar and daily threat of improvise explosive device , and the massive underfunding and disappointment with the Ministry of Defence ' s procurement system . many of we have to buy our own body armour . we run out of desert boot have to walk around in 40 ° heat in black boot . we be drive weapon - mount installation kit Land Rovers , which provide no protection against the landmine in the area . I understand that defence underfunding be not new . however , since 2010 , when the UK last spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , a decade of austerity under the Conservative Government have completely hollow out the capability of our armed force . with Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine now in its third year , it have never be more important for our military to rebuild its capability to show strength and support for our ally in Europe . I completely back our Prime Minister and his decision to increase defence spending back to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and his ambition to go far in the next Parliament . this be the right course of action . the most effective way to ensure peace in Europe be through strength . however , state - on - state conflict be not the only conflict that threaten we in the UK . there be more active conflict across the globe than at any time since the end of the second world war — in Gaza , Sudan , Yemen , Myanmar and the Sahel — and we need a strong military to protect our citizen and deter our enemy . however , hand in hand with defence be our vital spending on international development . when I be in Afghanistan , serve alongside british soldier and marine be humanitarian worker , doctor and engineer . our armed force be work side by side with aid worker , just as British - back aid worker be now do in Ukraine alongside the brave ukrainian armed force . there be so many story of the bravery of aid worker across the world ' s conflict zone , where fighting be cause destruction , starvation and violence against woman . I thank my hon . friend for bring deeply fragile and unstable conflict such as Afghanistan into this discussion . do he agree that aid play a deeply stabilise role in such conflict and , as such , contribute to global stability and security and to our own national security ? do he agree that that should be recognise in the tough choice we have to make on development spending ? absolutely . I think that those of we who have serve would recognise that development and defence be completely complementary . when we reduce our development spending , our defence spending need to go up . after leave the Royal Marines , colleague and I work with civil society in Syria , help to keep hope of a different , more tolerant country alive during that civil war . those group be probably now the good hope for Syria ' s civil society and for a more tolerant and stable country . aid help to mitigate the bad impact of conflict and to prevent further conflict . I be concerned that cut our development budget so deeply will undermine our ability to stabilise fragile state , reduce the driver of extremism and stop further conflict emerge . the implication of that will be feel here in the UK , with a great chance of spike in food and energy price , increase migration and threat from extremist group . our military and security service will face those challenge at a time when their attention should be on Ukraine . while I wholly support raise our defence spending , I encourage the Government to look over the next two year at opportunity to avoid such drastic cut to our aid budget , in particular our investment in conflict zone and on conflict prevention . each pound we spend on conflict prevention can save £ 16 in aid to mitigate the destruction cause by conflict . I welcome the pledge the Prime Minister make for an international fund for israeli - palestinian peace last December , and I hope that that remain a priority for the fcdo after the late announcement . I strongly support the increase in defence spending announce last week , but , as a former marine , I also urge the Government to value the critical role our aid budget play in deliver vital aid in conflict zone and prevent conflict altogether . due to time constraint , we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this month mark 10 year since the passing of the International Development ( Official Development Assistance Target ) Act 2015 , which commit this country to spend 0 . 7 % of our national income on international development . it be a proud moment that represent the culmination of almost half a century of effort and advocacy by my party , the Liberal Democrats . however , that legislation be create through a political consensus across the House , which build on the work of the reforming Labour Government of 1997 , who commit to make poverty history , and be continue by a coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats . Britain be a leader in international development due to both our expertise and our generosity , and our influence on the world stage have grow as a consequence . development open opportunity for trade and growth , and work alongside defence and diplomacy as a third element of our foreign policy to keep we secure at home . the Prime Minister ' s cut to the international development budget last week to 0 . 3 % of GNI put an end to that share consensus . let I be clear : liberal Democrats support the increase in defence spending . we call for the uplift to 2 . 5 % of gdp even before the Prime Minister commit to it , but we have lay out alternative funding plan . the world be change fast , not least in the past six week , so we must adapt . but this diminishing of our development spend will make we less , not more , secure . international development serve our national and border security interest . it be our investment in a more stable world and it pay dividend . by contrast , when we retreat , actor whose value and interest be not ours seize the opportunity . even as we watch , President Trump and Elon Musk gut USAID , which be responsible for a fifth of global development spending . China be move to fill the gap , deepen its partnership in the Indo - Pacific and Africa , where , in 2024 alone , Beijing agree more than $ 50 billion in loan and aid . as we have hear , when budget cut force the closure of the BBC World Service ' s arabic radio in Lebanon , Radio Sputnik — the Russian - back radio service — move in . development spending serve our health here in the UK , and that be put at risk by the Prime Minister ' s cut . through our support for multilateral organisation , such as Gavi and the Global Fund , we have not only save million of life , but prevent disease such as Ebola from reach pandemic proportion and cause devastation on british shore . as Anneliese Dodds ' resignation letter make clear , last week ' s decision will make it impossible to maintain all of the UK ' s development commitment . it may mean cut strategic programme that make vital contribution to UK security , include peacebuilding and deconfliction work in fragile state . this will only produce more violence , more fail nation and more refugee and , in the breeding ground of instability and extremism , risk the emergence of new terrorist group that could threaten we here at home . the development cut will mean scale back the climate finance that develop resilience and mitigation measure for country on the frontline of climate change and reduce anti - poverty programme for those very same nation . we know that for every 1 % increase in food insecurity , there be a 2 % increase in migration . the interaction of climate change and poverty with the high birth rate and extremely young population in much of the global south be a recipe for the vast displacement of people . we know that in the next 10 year , 1 . 1 billion young people across the global south will become working - age adult , yet in those same country we expect only 325 million job to be create , so support these economy be in our interest . More conflict will only exacerbate the situation . last year , even as the world ' s large humanitarian catastrophe unfold , more than 2 , 000 people from Sudan cross the channel on small boat . we already have the high level of refugee and migration since the end of the second world war , and the Prime Minister ' s decision risk far displacement . will the Minister clarify why no impact assessment be do in advance of these cut ? when will it be do , and when will this House see it ? in 2023 , the UK spend 0 . 2 % of GNI on official development assistance within the UK , more than £ 4 billion of which be use to host in - country refugee . if anything like that continue , we will be leave with just 0 . 1 % of GNI to finance our overseas aid objective . that would make our aid spend the small of any of the 32 country that comprise OECD ' s Development Assistance Committee , save for Viktor Orb á n ' s Hungary , and low than the rest of the G7 . that be a long way to fall from be a global leader in development spending and the second big donor of the G7 . will the Government reconsider their decision to count in - country refugee cost as ODA , so that what little remain after this cut can be use to advance UK interest abroad ? will the Minister confirm that , in view of the Government ' s statement in the other place yesterday , the money for the Integrated Security Fund will be ringfence ? can he also confirm that , to safeguard british soft power , the current level of ODA allocate to both the BBC World Service and the British Council will be protect ? will the Minister clarify how much of the total 0 . 3 % have already be assign to multilateral commitment ? be the money still ringfence ? if it be , how much will be leave available for bilateral assistance ? how will this cut affect UK - run programme in Sudan ; in Gaza and the west bank ; in Jordan , where UK ODA be use to support displace people and prevent future wave of refugee ; in the DRC ; and in Myanmar ? most importantly , be 0 . 3 % the floor or the ceiling ? in the past , Britain ' s overseas aid spending , which have reach 13 . 8 million people with food aid , help 95 million people to cope with the effect of climate change and inoculate 15 million child with lifesave vaccine , have reflect the deep generosity of the british people — we see that again and again in just how much be donate to appeal in response to natural disaster across the world — but we should never mistake development for charity . we reap the benefit of a safe , rich world through increase trade and growth and — critically — through our security , national health and border security . I have hope that the Government would reset the UK ' s place on the world stage , as they promise . I have hope that they would return we to the 0 . 7 % target , as promise in their manifesto . in the past , Labour Front Benchers , include the Prime Minister , speak with vigour about the importance of development for security and the short - sightedness of previous conservative cut . now , in dereliction of its value , Labour have go far than the Conservatives ever do . the world be become ever more dangerous . the norm of the international order have be turn on their head . only yesterday in the UN , the United States denounce the sustainable development goal develop collaboratively in pursuit of a well world . the Liberal Democrats have hope that the UK would step up and lead on development , recognise its vital importance to our future security . instead , the Government have cut development to its low level this century . that be a short - sighted , strategically unwise decision that will leave we less safe . it be not only the million of the world ' s poor who will feel that , but our constituent , too . before I call the shadow Foreign Secretary , I remind member that they should refer to other member by their constituency or by their title if they be a Minister , not by their first name . I begin my remark by pay tribute to the many speaker in the debate , and in particular the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who have be a long - stand advocate for development aid . I have have the great privilege of work with she , and I thoroughly understand her commitment . I will pay tribute to a few other colleague . my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) have be a long - stand , dedicated and passionate advocate not just for 0 . 7 % , but for the effective use of that funding , and for work with the private sector , which he and I have both have the enormous privilege of do . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) for her commitment . I have have the privilege of work with she as well , and during her time in government she be professional and commit to her brief . of course , last week the Government send she here to defend Labour ' s indefensible Chagos surrender deal , which use money transfer from the aid budget to defence to pay for the lease of a site that we have sovereignty over . rise — I will not give way because I do not have time . to spare the blush of the Minister , I will not relitigate the debate . I be glad that he be in his place because there be a lot to cover . he will speak passionately about development aid and assistance because of his background and experience . I would like to ask he a question about the British Indian Ocean Territory and which budget the lease cost will come from . will it be from the FCO , defence or ODA budget ? we still need an explanation of that . I thank the Minister , because before the debate start I receive a flurry of answer to some of the question I have be pose on this issue . however , just for the record , I still do not have clarification , so there will be more . I want to speak about defence spending and ODA . the Government be right to follow our call to redirect some ODA fund to support the defence budget at this critical time . rise — I will not give way as we be very short on time . I hope that the hon . Member will respect that . the threat that we and our ally face necessitate that decision , and there be consensus across our respective Front Benches on that . importantly , it show our enemy and adversary that we as a country be serious about deal with the malign influence and challenge we face . the Minister know the implication , but we must always look to increase our defence spending and resource . we will work collectively on that . we all recognise , as I think the debate have show , that many of the decision on ODA be difficult . there be strong view in this House on the choice that have be make , include among those on the Opposition Benches . my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) point out some of the choice . my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) speak about how we must still champion medium freedom , about some of the real pressure that exist and about the key value that we will stand up for . as a former Secretary of State for International Development — I have be there and I understand — I know the benefit and the impact of UK aid : how we stand strong in the world , the use of soft power and the way in which we save life . whether that be through the Global Fund or Gavi , we know those fund very well . we have be a huge supporter of they , and Britain have save and change life around the world . we be all proud of that ; there be no question . these point have be make already , but I ask the Minister : where will the Government take the lead — on which development programme in particular ? we know about Sudan — the Prime Minister have refer to that — but there be so many other area of conflict in the world . they include Yemen , and I be afraid to say that I have not hear Yemen mention in this House for too long . where will we be on the replenishment of Gavi and the Global Fund ? I know Ministers will say that they will wait until the spending review , but give that ODA spending will still be peg to a proportion of GNI , will the Minister give a commitment on the potential for publish plan ? we want to know more about the split of ODA between Government Departments . Home Office spending of ODA on asylum have already be raise several time , and I know that the Minister will want to speak about that . we also want to know more about the integrated security fund and the decision and choice that will be make on that . what clarity can be give ? similarly , CDC be mention . can there also be clarity on its role and that of British International Investment , and some of the opportunity that exist there ? I want to briefly touch on Ukraine , and some other area too . it be quite clear that we stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine . the Ukrainians ' fight be our fight . they be on the frontline protect the very principle that underpin our way of life : sovereignty , democracy and the rule of law . can the Minister say , particularly with the forthcoming change in defence spending , whether the Government will turbocharge the work follow the summit the Prime Minister lead at the weekend ? importantly , the Americans have already speak about pause military aid and intelligence sharing . what work will we do now to make sure that that do not happen in the headline way that we have hear ? how will we respond to that ? be we have constructive dialogue with our friend in the US Administration to safeguard key intelligence and security asset ? this be a defining moment . I want to touch on the middle east as well , and particularly on some of the discussion we have in the urgent question yesterday on Gaza and the ceasefire . we must ensure that we always stand strong when it come to stand up for the hostage . new discussion have take place in Cairo . when plan be forthcoming , what role will we play as a country in some of those area ? I must raise the issue of Iran . our diplomatic and security effort obviously have to ensure that we address that malign influence . I welcome the Government ' s action , which be undertake yesterday , on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . however , I want to press minister to go far and have a consistent and serious approach to security and defence across Government , because this be a whole of Government effort now . we have hear day after day in this House about the threat pose by Russia , Iran and China , which continue to cast a dark shadow over freedom , democracy and our national interest . we have to stop go cap in hand to China . we have to do much more , and I hope the Minister will reflect upon what I consider to be the Government ' s reckless approach in kowtow to China . what will we do to ensure that the vacuum that will now be create in some part of the world will not be fill by China ? how will we stand up to it ? finally , it be pretty clear that we live in an increasingly dangerous and uncertain world . the threat be increase and grow . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have one of the world ' s great privilege , which be to stand up and look after our security , defence and freedom use soft power and all its lever . we urge Ministers , within the scope that they have now , to tackle the real threat and challenge that we all face globally , while also give voice and representation to many of the issue that colleague have speak about today in the House . I start by thank all hon . and right hon . member for their passionate and sincere contribution to today ' s debate . we have an incredible wealth of experience here , not least among the former Ministers and former and current Committee member . I be a former member of the International Development Committee . I also want to thank the many people who work in the international development sector and on wide foreign affair and security issue , notably those who have serve in our armed force . we thank they , and all those who have serve our country in humanitarian , security and defence role , for their service . I particularly want to thank the Chair of the International Development Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , for open the debate . she make her point strongly and forcefully . she have play an important role as Chair of that Committee , and we take very sincerely the point that she make and hear they all . I will make sure that they be communicate to the new Minister of State in the other place . these be challenging time , and they demand tough choice and clear leadership . I would also like to pay my own tribute to the work of my former ministerial colleague , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) . I have know she for nearly 30 year , and she be a person of absolute integrity and sincerity . I be sure she will continue to contribute in the House on many matter of importance . I thank she for her work . I also want to thank all the staff in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , in our arm ' s length body and in other organisation include the BBC World Service and the British Council for the incredible work they do . minister and Conservative former Ministers will know the incredible work that our team of staff have do on these matter , both for the previous Government and for this Government , and it be absolutely right at time of uncertainty such as these that we recognise their contribution and their work . I thank all the hon . member who make that point in the debate . I want to be as transparent and as open as I can . I have note all the many different point make today , include those about specific geographic location and programme . I be go to be completely honest : I be not in a position today to answer some of the question about specific funding for specific programme , but I will ensure that those point be hear loud and clear by the new Minister of State . I take those point with sincerity , and this debate have be helpful in allow I to understand the priority of the House . I know my hon . friend ' s absolute passion and the experience in this area , particularly on international development , that he gain under the last Labour Government . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on aid match , can I ask whether he see a role for the generosity of the UK public in ensure that they can match and supplement our effort in rebuild country , but also in further our aim right across the world ? absolutely , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her experience and work on these issue over many year . she be right to say that aid match be crucially important , and we very much hope to continue that work . the generosity of the british public be remarkable , whether in relation to Gaza , to Ukraine or to the many other crisis around the world . I pay tribute to all the community and individual up and down this country for their brilliant generosity and fundraising . would it be fair to say that the step that have be take to use development money for the immediate or relatively prompt increase in defence spending be essentially a short - term measure that will have to be substitute with long - term measure , give that the increase in defence spending , if it be to fund a security contribution to a divide Ukraine , will be an indefinite commitment ? I obviously can not speak for what will happen many year into the future , but the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : our intent be to get back to 0 . 7 % of GNI as soon as the fiscal circumstance allow . the Prime Minister have be very clear about that . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not take any more intervention , because of the time ; I need to respond to the point that have be make . it be clear that all of we across the House agree — with a couple of exception — that our defence spending need to go up . there be absolutely clear unity on Ukraine . we will obviously be set out the further work follow the summit at the weekend and how we will go forward . there have be important conversation on that over recent day involve myself , the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and other . at this time of profound change , with conflict overseas undermine security and prosperity at home , the Prime Minister rightly take the decision to increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % of gdp from 2027 . that will be fund by cut our spending on overseas development from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 3 % of GNI . the Prime Minister be absolutely clear that this be not an announcement that he be happy to make — I know that a couple of member suggest the opposite . the Prime Minister be a man of integrity and sincerity on this issue , and I urge colleague to look carefully at what he say about it . for I , this be a sincere but difficult decision , not least give my experience work for humanitarian and international development NGOs and , indeed , at the former Department for International Development . I too have see the positive impact of Britain ' s proud record on overseas development on life around the world , as hon . member reflect on . as the Prime Minister say , we will continue to play a key role in do everything we can to move towards rebuild our capacity , and we remain committed to work in Sudan , Ukraine and Gaza and on tackle climate change , on support multinational effort on global health and challenge such as vaccination , and on our commitment to the overseas territory . I have to level with the House , and I hope that people can see and feel this : in this dangerous new era , the defence and national security of this country must come first . this be not the 1990 . this be not even 2005 , and I can not look at what I , or indeed other Ministers , do every day and not recognise that we have to respond differently to the very serious threat face this country , our continent and the world . I say that in deep candour . this difficult choice reflect the evolve nature of the threat we face and the strategic shift require to meet they , while maintain economic stability — the foundation of this Government ' s plan for change . we will ensure that every pound of development assistance be spend in the most impactful way , equip the fcdo to deliver the plan for change internationally . the change in this estimate reflect that approach , and the fcdo will continue overall , not just through ODA , to focus on growth , security , Europe , migration , climate and nature , and development . reduce the overall size of our ODA budget will necessarily have an impact on the scale and shape of the work we do . we will consider how to maximise the value of our budget throughout the ongoing spending review , but ODA alone be not , and have never be , the single answer to the many challenge of international development . we have to use all the lever at our disposal to support our development aim and make use of all form of development finance to maximise the impact of our ODA . we have set out the detail of the change be make . many member have raise concern about asylum spending . the Home Office introduce policy and operational change within the asylum system to reduce the impact on UK ODA spend . the Home Secretary be commit to ensure that asylum cost fall , and indeed there have already be an impact . the Government have take measure to reduce the asylum backlog and the use of expensive asylum accommodation in the next spending review period , and to increase detention capacity to facilitate more removal . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury consider the impact of the rise in GNI and the reduction in asylum cost , among other change to ODA forecast , in the round and agree that the fcdo would receive an uplift to its 2024 - 25 ODA settlement in the region of £ 540 million . many colleague have raise question about 2025 - 26 . we will be set initial budget for 2025 - 26 to minimise disruption to key programme as we transition financial year . the detail of that will be set out in due course . the ODA budget for future year be under review by the Government , and we will confirm detail to the House in due course . I want to be honest that we can not provide categorical assurance at this stage , but I assure member that their point have be hear clearly . many member raise debt relief . support develop country to tackle unsustainable debt be a key development priority of this Government . we need to take the twin - track approach of tackle the immediate challenge and the underlie driver of unsustainable debt . BII be mention , and it be a crucial part of our development architecture . we have provide additional support to BII , and we will work closely with it on its role . indeed , in 2023 , bii - back business provide more than 1 million job , pay $ 2 . 5 billion in taxis and generate huge amount of electricity , and we need a clear role for it . I have take on board the important point about the British Council and the funding that we give it , and about the BBC World Service , which we hugely support — our part of the funding for it have go up by £ 32 . 6 million in the 2025 - 26 fiscal year . the role of sdr have be point to . I want to highlight that we will continue to centre absolutely everything that we do internationally on woman and girl . impact assessment have be mention many time . of course , impact assessment , include of impact on woman and girl , will play a crucial role . I have mention UK aid Match and many other thing . these be incredibly difficult choice , but they be the right choice for the circumstance in which we find ourselves . they be not choice that we make lightly . I say sincerely that I have hear all the contribution that member have make . we will come back to the House in due course with further information . I commend the estimate to the House . I thank everybody who have speak in the debate , and express my deep regret that some be unable to do so , but there be many avenue in this House for member to make their voice hear . I end by say that I be very concerned about those who might step in , with less generous intent , if we leave the international stage . question defer ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . for clarification , when I make my contribution , I refer to Jordan . I should have refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I recently go to Jordan at the invitation of the King , and I should have say so . I thank the right hon . member for put that point of clarification on the record . department for Business and Trade [ relevant document : First Report of the Business and Trade Committee , Post Office and Horizon scandal redress : unfinished business , HC 341 ; Second Report of the Business and Trade Committee , Priorities of the Business and Trade Committee , HC 42 . ] motion make , and question propose , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Department for Business and Trade : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 952 , 875 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 035 , 833 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 2 , 037 , 739 , 000 . — ( Justin Madders . ) I put on the record my profound thank to the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this debate , and to the Liaison Committee for some of the arrangement that have make today possible . the Prime Minister have underline time and again that growth be the no . 1 priority , so I be grateful that the House have agree to put the Department for growth , together with its account , under the microscope today . in readiness for today ' s debate , my Business and Trade Committee have take the precaution of talk to hundred and hundred of business up and down the country , to trade unionist and to consumer group , and have lay in the House a report on what we hear from literally thousand of voice . in a way , that be what these account and estimate , and the Minister , should be judge against when we consider this matter today . let I make three point quickly to get the debate start . I start with the point that strike I hard when we be listen to business voice up and down the country : for all that divide we in this House , there be a terrific unity of purpose in the business community in this country — unity not only about the possibility of become the fast - grow economy in the G7 , but on what we need to do to hit that target . the overwhelming majority of business want minister do more to grow the market into which they sell . they want to see an ambitious reset with the European Union , fast - tracking of the free trade deal with Switzerland , the Gulf Co - operation Council and India , and for we to do absolutely everything possible to avoid the peril of tariff from the United States . however , they also want to see a complete transformation in the way in which we use public procurement to support business in this country . Minister after Minister have say from the Dispatch Box , " we will do more to buy British . " well , it be time to actually deliver on that promise . secondly , business want the right worker for the role that be available . pretty much everywhere we go , the challenge of get the right workforce be the no . 1 priority of the people we hear from . it be true that we hear a lot of concern about the rise cost of business . People be worried about the impact of the Employment Rights Bill , the national minimum wage change and the national insurance increase all come at the same time . however , I hear business say that they could live with that if they see the rapid development and publication of a growth plan , along with the comprehensive spending review . I regret the fact that that have kind of move sideways , because give what this extremely hard - work Minister be do with the Employment Rights Bill , it would have be in his political interest for his colleague to table that industrial strategy and growth plan soon rather than later . I appreciate a fellow harlowian give way to I . do my right hon . friend agree that part of employment be about skill , and one way the Government can support business be by ensure that young people have the skill to succeed in business and in all workplace ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . we hear business say to we loud and clear that they want radical and bold change in the way that the skill levy be organise . the Government have move to introduce flexibility , and business want they to go far , fast . we also hear business say that there be a good environment when it come to start - up finance , but a terrible environment in this country for scale - up finance — I will return to that in a moment . People want much strong relationship between university and business , and we in this country still do not have something like the Fraunhofer institutes in Germany , which have as their slogan that they be the research and development department for the Mittelstand . where those knowledge transfer partnership work , they be good , but they need to be far more prevalent . finally , we hear business say loud and clear that the planning system need a complete overhaul . the infrastructure in this country be terrible , and we must drive down energy price ; right now , many business be be price out of do business because our energy price be sky high . for all our difference , there be important point on which we can agree . we on the Business and Trade Committee will continue to judge Ministers against many of the thing that we hear from the business community as we travel up and down the country , and I will flag up two or three point that we want to zero in on . my right hon . friend ' s point about energy cost and opening market chime with everything that the ceramics industry be tell I about what it be face . he be right about the need for growth , and as well as be a wonderful Chair of the Committee , he be a doughty campaigner against inequality and inequity . I be sure that he will agree that we need to ensure that the benefit of growth be feel in every community , be it in Birmingham or Stoke - on - Trent , and particularly in those community that sadly , under the last government , do not get the benefit they deserve . my hon . friend be an extraordinary champion for the city he represent , and for the industry that have make that city great over the century . he be absolutely right : when the industrial strategy be publish , we must understand whether it be drive growth and well wage , and whether it be transform people ' s ability to earn a good life in every corner of the country . we can not again have the situation that we have over the past 10 to 15 year , where 70 % of the growth and wealth in our country have be concentrate in London and the south - east . we must genuinely level - up this country and pull together a cross - party consensus , to the extent that we can , on the change that be need . why ? because if we can get that cross - party consensus , we can redesign the economic institution in our country in a way that be sustainable for the long term . I wish to flag three issue that pose question to the Minister who be ask we to agree the estimate today . first , there be a real worry in the small business community about whether it will be adequately support by some of the change that the Minister be help to drive through . we all know that what have bedevil our economy for a long time be a long tail of underproductive , often small , firm . if we be to raise wage , raise the rate of economic growth , and become the fast grow economy in the G7 , we must transform the productivity rate of a lot of our small firm . how will new technology be diffuse through supply chain ? how can we ensure that small and medium - sized business have support in deploy new technology that could change their business ? I thank my right hon . friend for his chairmanship of the Committee . give the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement , and our increase defence spending , do my right hon . friend agree that it be important to support small and medium - sized defence enterprise ? my hon . friend be a brilliant member of the Committee , and she make a brilliant point . we know that we must come to a strategic culture and defence mindset in this country , so that our industry can innovate as fast as the battlefield change . we all know that there be defence manufacturer — drone manufacturer in particular — that struggle to get the work capital that they need to fund and grow their business , month by month . we will have to change the way that we support small business , and that mean transform access to finance . time and again , the Committee have hear about business leader be bring in once a firm get to a particular size , and it be snap up and ship out , in particular to the United States , because we do not seem able to supply equity finance or debt finance of between £ 50 million and £ 500 million . we have to think anew about how we ensure that the British Business Bank , the National Wealth Fund , the private sector and the propose change to pension fund work together to completely revolutionise access to finance for business in this market . in the estimate , there look to be a welcome £ 414 million increase in funding for the British Business Bank . although it be hard to decode the account , it look like about £ 127 million of that be provision for bad debt . will the Minister clarify that ? the Committee will continue to press for we to completely transform access to finance , include through an inquiry that we will launch later in the year . the final fear that I want to flag , which be come through loud and clear to Committee member , be that the Government just do not work for business in the way that they need to . we have hear over and over again about one Department do something that completely undermine the work of another , or one regulator do something that completely undermine what a different Department or regulator be try to do . we do not yet see anything about how we can knit Government together in a wholly new way in either the Green Paper on industrial strategy , or any of the commentary about the estimate . in the good old day , when I be Chief Secretary to the Treasury , what we be begin to test — there be no money leave . well , there be an awful lot more money than there be now . we certainly do not have a debt interest bill of £ 100 billion a year , which be what the bill have rise to , and why so many difficult choice be have to be take . at that time , we be begin genuinely to consider how to create single , pool fund that come together from different Government Departments . a challenge for we in the House be that we have to reflect on the fact that we reinforce silos in Government , and do not reinforce join - up Government . this estimate debate be a good example : we be consider the account of the Department for Business and Trade , but in an ideal world we would also have here Ministers from the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , the Treasury , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and a couple of other Departments , and we would ask those Ministers how they be work together to deliver a join - up offer to our business community , because business have not get time to muck around and deal with all the red tape ; they be try to build a business . I thank my right hon . friend for give way — he have give way a few time already . when I speak to business in my constituency , I pick up that young people who want to remain in the most rural community simply can not get to the job that they want to get to , and that business in rural setting have real trouble access a lot of the help that he refer to . do he believe that one of the particular sin of the past 14 year be that the business climate have be unfriendly to business , and particularly unfriendly to small rural business ? my hon . friend be right , but we have to look to the future . we have to understand how Government will connect together and ensure a transformation in regional transport and connectivity . so many part of our country be bedevil by a lack of internet connectivity , so they can not access the kind of application that might give they access to artificial intelligence , for example , or to international market . they can not get access to the internet full stop . we have to think boldly about how we join Government together in a revolutionary way . finally , I want to mention the Post Office . when we look at these account in the round , we see a 44 . 8 % increase in the amount allocate , take the figure up to nearly £ 6 billion a year . that be partly drive by £ 444 million for the British Business Bank , but it be overwhelmingly drive by about £ 1 . 3 billion extra for the Post Office . the good step have be take of increase funding for the Post Office compensation scheme , but that money be still not go out the door fast enough . I accept that that have improve , but the Committee will return with some tough question for Ministers in the light of their response to our recent report . my final point , which I urge on both the Minister and his colleague in the Treasury , be that we can not transform the Post Office into the organisation it could be by drip - drip - drip the funding for modernisation through to it . the Post Office need a proper five - year to 10 - year funding plan so that it can genuinely become the organisation that it could be . when these account be publish by the Department , they be qualified and late . I know that civil servant have to work hard to iron out a number of problem , and we have ask the permanent secretary for monthly update on how he be do in bring the kind of clarity that this House should expect . I thank the civil servant and the Department for the extraordinary work that they do ; they be absolutely mission - critical to the hope of so many of we in this country and to our become the fast - grow economy in the G7 . I will have to put back - Bench Members on an immediate five - minute time limit , which may well go down in due course . I will do my very good to reduce the comment I be go to make , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , for his very thoughtful comment , which reflect the consideration of our Committee . business be the lifeblood of our economy . it create job , fund our public service and drive the success of our country , yet under this government , business face an onslaught of damaging policy that threaten growth , confidence and livelihood . the Government ' s £ 25 billion national insurance job tax be make it more expensive to hire worker , their family business tax punish those who drive local economy and their 1970s - style employment law be stifle business growth . the result ? the fast rate of job loss since 2008 . instead of support enterprise , this Government be actively make it hard for business to thrive . the budget of the Department for Business and Trade be be slash by 6 % , which mean less support at a time when firm need it most . the so - call Employment Rights Bill — or , perhaps , the unemployment right Bill — will cost the Government £ 1 billion , while its fair work agency could add an astonishing £ 6 . 3 billion burden . those cost will inevitably be pass on to business and worker alike . this be not just about number on a spreadsheet : these policy have real consequence — worker lose their job , family struggle with rise cost and business already be force to shut their door . the Government claim to support growth , yet their policy be drive firm into significant financial distress , with more than 632 , 000 business now at risk . that be a 32 % increase in just one year . the irony be that Britain remain an attractive place to invest . the PwC chief executive officer survey rank we second only to the United States , but , alas , that survey take place before the Budget . a strong economy depend on strong business confidence , yet confidence in this Government ' s economic management have be shatter . business no long trust that the Government have a clear strategy for growth , which the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North have already mention . the number speak for themselves . More than 200 lead hospitality and retail firm have warn that Government policy will force they to cut job and scale back investment . business face ever - change regulation , increase tax burden and a Government who appear out of touch with their need . my hon . friend refer to the increase in regulation . the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill , which I have in my hand , be 192 page long . only this week , Government amendment total 216 page have be table for this House to consider in two day next week . do that not present any business with a vast quantity of new regulation to consider ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the time that we have next week to consider this number of amendment seem wholly inadequate . business be face ever - change regulation and increase tax burden . many have say that they be mislead — dupe — into believe that this Government be pro - business when their action tell a very different story . analysis by the Nuffield Trust have find that if the fair work agency be to increase social care worker ’ wage to match the NHS Agenda for Change band 3 , the cost could be as high as £ 6 . 3 billion , include an increase to the real living wage cost £ 2 . 2 billion . that be another measure in the out - of - touch Employment Rights Bill . it be as if the 32 member of the Cabinet have a very limited understanding of the private sector and of business as a whole . business owner , entrepreneur and worker do not need more red tape and tax hike . they need a Government who understand that growth do not come from the state dictate term , but from unleash the potential of enterprise , and they need policy that encourage investment , not deter it . business in my constituency of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton be already struggle with the global impact on their business environment , let alone the challenge at home . the day one right give by the Employment Rights Bill give the presumption of innocence to worker and the presumption of malevolent intent to employer . the reality be that neither be correct . the Government need to understand that when business thrive , Britain thrive . that be the only way in which we will restore confidence , protect job , and secure a grow economy . I speak today as a member of the Business and Trade Committee and as the MP for Livingston constituency , determine to see this Department play its vital part in deliver the government ' s no . 1 mission of economic growth and economic renewal , all underpin by a pro - worker , pro - business approach . one of the crucial element in deliver that mission be the delivery of a modern and ambitious industrial strategy . it be towards that industrial strategy that I will primarily address my remark . it be my belief that the UK economy be in a moment of peril . fourteen Tory year of underfunding , instability , and a lack of investment in our people and infrastructure have leave we with anaemic growth . if we do not get the next few year right , that trend will continue , despite the good effort of our business leader and our worker . however , I also see opportunity . the Business and Trade Committee go around the country gather evidence for our report and speak to those with a stake in our economy — from sole trader to global corporate , from trade union to academic . time after time , we hear and see the same thing : the huge optimism and potential for our country and the business that power it . what those people want from Government be stability , predictability and coherence . if we as a Government can provide that , they believe that they can unleash our country ' s potential . there be universal positivity about the Government ' s focus on an industrial strategy — a belief that it will drive investment , create high - quality job and ensure that business , include those in my constituency of Livingston , thrive in the economy of the future . economic prosperity do not happen by accident ; it take business , business leader and worker . it require vision , leadership , and a Government willing to invest in the industry that will power our future . the Green Paper set out how the strategy will support growth sector , drive productivity , and ensure that Britain remain a world leader in financial service , fintech , manufacturing , green technology , life science and more . these be not just abstract commitment ; they have tangible benefit for people and business in my constituency of Livingston , and across Scotland and the wide UK . take , for example , the significant opportunity in Scotland ' s renewable sector . with the right industrial strategy , we can fully harness the nation ' s potential in onshore and offshore wind , hydrogen production , sustainable aviation fuel and battery technology , create well - pay , secure , future - face employment across Livingston constituency and elsewhere that benefit worker , family and community alike . contrast this approach by DBT and the wide Labour Government , root in a long - term strategy and tangible investment , with the record of the SNP Scottish Government over the past 18 year . it be frankly staggering that Scotland — a country with truly extraordinary economic potential , not least in the area of renewable energy — still lack a dedicated industrial strategy . not only that : under successive First Ministers , business of all size be shun , and their grow concern about Scottish Government economic policy be ignore . will the hon . member give way ? go ahead — I would like to hear the hon . member ' s intervention . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman would like to hear it . what I just hear be breathtaking . I remind he that Scotland ' s economy be one of the good performing in the UK . since 2007 , Scotland ' s gdp per person have grow by 10 . 5 % , outperform the UK ' s 6 . 5 % , while productivity have rise at an annual rate of 1 % . I would be curious to know what figure he be work from , because it be a topsy - turvy world , since Scotland have have the high rate of foreign direct investment in the UK for the past nine year in a row outside of London . I be afraid the hon . Member often fall into the trap of think that be just a little bit well than the Tories be good enough for Scotland . I see Scotland as much more than that . while this government be provide business with the certainty that they need to plan for the future , the SNP have be content to manage decline without a plan to stimulate growth or attract investment . it fail on deliver green job , despite grand promise on renewable energy that never materialise , and fail to support manufacturing , leave company without back . contrast that with the UK Labour Government ' s crucial action to protect job and investment at Grangemouth , a site of huge economic importance to Scotland . the Prime Minister ' s announcement of £ 200 million from the national wealth fund represent a clear and unequivocal commitment to ensure that Grangemouth remain a hub of economic and industrial activity . this investment will not only safeguard exist job but unlock new opportunity in green energy and advanced manufacturing . that be Government work in the interest of business , worker and our long - term prosperity . it be in that spirit that I hope and believe that Grangemouth will become a central part in DBT ' s industrial strategy and its thinking and work for year to come . the SNP Scottish Government and previous Tory Governments have year to act but fail to do so . they have squander opportunity and fail to plan for Grangemouth or for Scotland ' s economic future . this Labour Government have step up and secure a future for Grangemouth worker , provide they with a training guarantee and work with industry partner to build long - term resilience for the site . the contrast could not be sharp . I look forward to work with my dedicated and talented collegiate Committee colleague from all party as we continue to scrutinise the work of the Department . this Government be commit to drive growth and build an economy that work for everyone . the opportunity to get ahead be what everyone want for their family . that be why I be in politic , drive to ensure that no one in this country be hold back by their circumstance . a modern industrial strategy be key to make that happen . I will now reduce the time limit to four minute . I regularly meet business owner big and small across Bromley and Biggin Hill . the story be the same no matter who I talk to , be it big franchisee , independent care provider or small family - own start - up : british business do not feel support by this Labour Government . instead , they feel hamstring by labour ' s tax rise and red tape . the Department for Business and Trade ' s budget may be over £ 3 . 3 billion , but any business will say that thing be get bad , not well , under Labour . I have lose count of the number of local enterprise who have tell I that they have stop recruit , and be make redundancy , delay investment and increase price , all after Labour ' s tax - raise budget . that should not come as a surprise to the Government . hike employer ' national insurance contribution by £ 25 billion will cost job . impose ream of new employment red tape will deter business from hire . there may only be one Cabinet member who have start their own business , but this be simple stuff . if they make it more expensive and difficult to hire and grow , business will not hire or grow . that be what anti - business , anti - growth government look like . labour ' s policy be cause economic growth to slow down , unemployment to rise fast and inflation to increase again . Bromley and Biggin Hill have nearly 4 , 800 small business . they be the lifeblood of the local economy . if they thrive , our community succeed . if they fail , our community suffer . but Labour be make their job hard , as it be for small business across the country . a new survey by the Federation of Small Businesses show that a third of small employer plan to cut job , with nine in 10 worry about Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill . small business confidence have also fall to a record low because of the pandemic , with confidence among small firm plummet more in London than in any other english region . this Labour Government be not help business to deliver economic growth ; instead , they be tax they to the very brink . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I be pleased to share the Committee ' s priority for this Parliament , and the way in which the evidence that we have gather have shape our work plan . I recently host a roundtable in Tamworth with local business and , give our close relationship with West Midlands combine authority , I also invite our mayor , Richard Parker , to discuss his plan for skill development across the region . one of the main theme that emerge from our discussion be the difficulty that business experience in find the right worker . with the transition to a greener , more digital economy , business need a skilled workforce . the Minister ' s recent announcement about make apprenticeship shorter , more agile and tailor to business need respond directly to what we have hear across the country . in Tamworth , I speak to representative of Kier Group and Simpson Strong - tie to explore how we could encourage young people , especially woman , to consider the construction sector . with clear pathway , we can ensure that the skill need to support economic growth and deliver the housing and infrastructure that our country need be in place . a great example of regional success be Cornerstone Partnership , a social housing developer in Tamworth . with support from the combine authority , it have be able to access finance through loan , demonstrate how devolve power can direct resource effectively . however , challenge remain for small business that struggle to access finance from institution such as the British Business Bank or face barrier when export . I should like to hear a little more from the Minister about how business will be enable to access the additional £ 415 million for the bank . I also speak to PI - KEM , a small company in my constituency that start with five employee and now export globally from its base in Tamworth . in just over a decade , it have increase its workforce to more than 30 employee . despite that success , it face long wait for suitable industrial unit . many business whose representative I have speak to are in a similar situation , unable to find mid - range industrial space to grow into . small and medium - sized enterprise be the backbone of our economy , constitute 99 . 8 % of all private sector business , but they be under immense pressure , especially with rise cost and energy challenge . the energy crisis have hit business hard , especially in sector such as hospitality . I hear time and again that energy bill be force business to close . the good news be that , as of December 2024 , the Energy Ombudsman can represent business with up to 50 employee , expand its reach beyond just microbusinesse . I be currently work with the ombudsman on behalf of one of the microbusinesse in my constituency , which have face unfair back - billing practice by its energy supplier . our high street have be affect by business closure , but in Tamworth we have embrace our heritage as a driver of regeneration . our unique selling point be our history and heritage , and we be use it to bring business back to the town . for instance , our grade I list St . Editha ' s church and Tamworth castle can be key driver of growth . local business have collaborate on event such as the Athelstan 1100 festival , which bring the community together and attract visitor . with the Government ' s £ 270 million funding for the Arts Everywhere programme , town such as Tamworth can continue to showcase their heritage , support local business and regenerate town centre . there be much more to discuss , but let I end by say that whether it be a question of improve access to finance , support digital transformation or help business to export , with the right support we can achieve sustained growth , but we must remain agile in the face of an unpredictable global context . I , too , be a member of the Select Committee . perhaps no other Department have an impact on the life of so many Britons . the economy affect each and every one of we , and when the Government ' s no . 1 priority be the fast sustained economic growth in the G7 , then — to use football parlance — the Chancellor be the midfield general and the Department for Business and Trade be the big striker in the opposition box . the rest of we — all of we — have a spot on the terrace , but oh dear ! we have barely kick off , and we be pin in our own half . where be business confidence , give that less than a quarter of the business that cheer Labour on , sign a letter ahead of the election , be still wave their red scarf ? one say that it now feel " dupe " . what of the financial back - up ? the eye - catch headline figure in the supplementary estimate be that the Department have be allocate a total funding increase of £ 1 . 8 billion , yet that money be largely earmark for Post Office compensation . it be absolutely right and proper that the victim be compensate quickly , but there should be no pretence that the money be a shot in the arm for DBT . although the extra £ 440 million for the British Business Bank be good news , be it enough ? this country lack not for start - up but for scale - up , and we hear time and again that a lack of finance from risk - averse bank be the block . scale matter . the Business and Trade Committee hear only yesterday that although work by the previous Government have create an ideal environment for the emerge technology of quantum computing , Britain have earmark a few billion pound for the sector — impressive , until one hear that the United States be inject over $ 50 billion . the US ' s R & D spend alone be perhaps seven time our total budget in this field . no Government be ever in full control of event , and the storm of war be howl . even as this Government ' s industrial strategy be be shape , defence be now the utmost priority . if we as a nation be not secure , we be not a nation . war be fight in trench and on myriad battlefield , but they be win in boardroom and on the shop floor and shipyard of industry . economic growth , then , be a key arrow in the british quiver . but do these estimate give we hope for growth ? rather than confidently strike out for new global deal , Britain today look like a cork in a storm - toss sea — at the mercy of event , and not their master . on a Business and Trade Committee visit to Brussels , we explore what the Government might expect of their much - vaunted reset of relation . troublingly , Britain lack for any clear definition of its ask beyond warm word about defence and security , yet the EU , be make up of good protectionist , already have an invoice draw up . we have accede to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — that be not easy to say , especially with these tooth . it cover a bloc of over 500 million people and include country such as Australia , Canada , Japan and Singapore , and economy that be ripe to bloom , such as Vietnam and Malaysia , in contrast to the sunset economy of Europe , which have sclerotic growth . yet we be tell that trade deal take up british gdp only marginally . we lack ambition . I want to follow up on my hon . friend ' s comment on international trade . do he agree that the Government currently lack the capability to support business appropriately in international trade ? I completely agree that much more need to be do on international trade . as I say , we lack ambition in this field , because we base so much of what we expect on previous deal . frankly , there have never be a deal like CPTPP , the putative deal with India and the dripping roast that be a free trade deal with the US . the Department for Business and Trade need to step up , not be beat before we even start . growth be the destination that we in this House should all agree on ; the path there be where the dispute lie . we be in an economic relegation zone after a dud Budget . can the Department for Business and Trade help pull off the shock result that we all need ? Britain ' s get talent , and the Department for Business and Trade can boost it . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I welcome this debate and the opportunity to look at our priority for the future . small and medium - sized business make up 99 . 9 % of british business , employ over 16 million people . as the daughter of a greengrocer , my speech will focus on support sme to grow our economy . it be crucial that the Government ' s plan to deliver long - term growth include digital inclusion , improve financial literacy , improve access to finance , workforce reskille , and expand the export - lead growth capability of sme . Digital exclusion be not just a social problem , but an economic one . the Government ' s digital skill plan recognise that business and worker must be equip with digital capability to drive growth , yet million of adult and thousand of business lack the digital skill and financial literacy need to compete in both today ' s and tomorrow ' s economy . they face barrier to digital adoption , include cost , lack of awareness and difficulty access Government support . I have speak to several business in Dudley and I recently hold a network event , and those from small business repeatedly say that they do not have the time to learn digital skill , and use social medium as part of their marketing strategy be walk into the dark . sme also face barrier in access finance to scale up and enter new market abroad . I support the Business and Trade Committee ' s priority , so will the Department agree to spend on expand financial incentive , as government must make grant , R & D tax relief and digital adoption fund easy to access , especially for sme outside London and the big city ; to focus on financial literacy so business can thrive ; to streamline public procurement as too many tech sme struggle to win public sector contract due to the overly complex process ; and to have initiative for business to access finance , whether that be seed money or scale up to export ? lastly , will the Government commit to maximise opportunity in the industrial strategy for all town like Dudley to ensure that no town be leave behind on this journey to economic prosperity ? rise — order . there be now a three - minute time limit . obviously , increase investment in Scotland ' s economy be crucial to deliver the SNP Government ' s priority , which be improve public service , support a thriving economy , tackle the climate emergency and eradicate child poverty . I want to put this on the record again , just to be very clear in this House about the fact : Scotland ' s economy make it one of the well - perform part of the UK . its GDP have outgrow the rest of the UK by 50 % since 2007 , and productivity be at an average rate of 1 . 1 % . it be vital that the spending of the Department for Business and Trade complement the Scottish Government ' s effort to increase investment and ensure economic prosperity . increase trade and attract inward investment be critical for Scotland . in 2023 , Scotland secure a record number of foreign direct investment project , maintain its position as the top perform UK area outside London for the ninth year run . accord to Ernst and Young ' s annual analysis , 142 FDI project be secure in Scotland , which be double the UK ' s growth rate . Scotland be clearly the good place to invest in these island . however , this success must not be jeopardise by decision by the UK Government . obviously , the pressure employer be feel on national insurance be negatively impact on scottish business , limit their capacity to contribute to the economy . this tax on job undermine effort to support business , entrepreneur and investment . labour ' s political choice to remain outside the EU single market and custom union be cost the UK billion every year . brexit — a decision Scotland never vote for — continue to hurt scottish business , trade opportunity and economic prospect . a January 2025 analysis by the office of the chief economic adviser estimate that Brexit trade barrier could cost Scotland £ 4 billion , with export potentially down 7 . 2 % or £ 3 billion compare with EU membership . Scotland ' s future therefore lie in the EU and the european single market . the Labour Government must acknowledge that stand outside the EU be drive down investment and growth . this will be crystalise by the potential trade war be initiate by President Trump as part of the " America first " trade policy . free trade , a long - establish principle , be under significant strain , bring uncertainty for trade , with the USA and other nation impose tariff . I would speak about the vulnerable whisky industry , which need to be revisit . I hear only today that the Government be withdraw the idea of make English whisky a single malt , and I be pleased to hear that . I will finish by say that the UK must recognise the value of Scotland ' s industry and potential emerge sector . Scotland be at the forefront of the energy transition and cutting - age technology , present substantial opportunity for future growth . I look forward to hear more about investment in Scotland , particularly in those sector . it be interesting to hear from the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) about the importance of shipyard . Portsmouth be once — from 1511 to 2014 — a fantastic shipbuilding city , with a strong tradition of build some of the great ship . it play its part by repair and refit over 1 , 600 ship during the first world war . after Labour ' s commitment in 1998 to build the invincible class aircraft carrier , in 2011 Pompey shipbuilder play a crucial role in the construction of the two new aircraft carrier by help to build 6 , 000 - tonne section of the midship of HMS Queen Elizabeth . I be proud to say that my son be currently serve on that ship . but like so many other part of this country , Portsmouth have be let down . under the previous Government , despite Portsmouth be the home of the Royal Navy , the heart and industry of my city of shipbuilding be cut away . in 2014 , shipbuilding be take from Portsmouth , and it have leave a deep scar . the answer to the industry be remove be to have a Minister for Portsmouth . despite have three token minister for Portsmouth give to we under the previous Government , charge with bring economic growth to the city , Portsmouth under the Tories be fail again and again and again . ten thousand adult in Portsmouth North be live on the minimum wage , a stark reality show a lack of economic growth and strategy in my city to ensure job for local people . Nelson once say , " England expect " . Madam Deputy Speaker , Portsmouth expect . it be refreshing to see a government — a Labour Government — identify the need for an industrial strategy across the country . while we may not return to shipbuilding in its same volume and while we may be in the south - east , we be unique and we need a strategy and action . will the Minister outline what difference he see in this Government ' s modern industrial strategy from those that have be try — or should I say in the case of my city , not try — so that my city and the people in it can see a future of growth , investment , security and well - pay job for themselves , their family and future generation ? the Government be elect eight month ago with a promise to go for growth , but so far most of their policy seem design to make life more difficult for business . their £ 25 billion national insurance job tax be a direct assault on the business that create job . the increase in capital gain tax , the introduction of the family business tax and the family farm tax all discourage entrepreneurship . the 1970s - style employment law be slow business growth and discourage job creation . labour ' s Employment Rights Bill will increase cost to business by £ 5 billion , bear mostly by small business . take day one right . if , after less than one week , it become apparent that a new employee be the wrong fit for a business , a complicated process must be follow to dismiss they . speak as a former — though fully qualified — solicitor , I know the business that will be hit hard be the one with no human resource department . get the process wrong , and they could be take to court for unfair dismissal . another example be the obligation for the employer to notify an employee in write that they have the right to join a trade union . be that something we would reasonably expect from the local publican , or the proprietor of a family newsagent ? in what world be that really go to occur ? yet if it do not occur , those small business will on the hook for an additional four week ' salary in damage . that will have brutal consequence for very many microbusinesse and will deter they from employ people . the Bill also establish an advisory board for the enforcement of labour market rule . that body will advise the Secretary of State on matter relate to the labour market . it be an expensive and pointless exercise . the Secretary of State have plenty of avenue to collect advice already . there will be a complicated process for select member of the panel , which will consume considerable amount of civil service time and money . the member of the board will be pay hundred of pound a day . this be a sham process design to allow the Secretary of State to hand out sinecure to receive advice on strategy from his union friend that he could have get for free . the first instinct of this 1970s - style old Labour Government be to regulate , to stifle innovation and to back the union over business every time . we Conservatives will stand up for business and the people who make the economy work , and will continue to champion its success . I hope the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) will pass on my thank to her son for his service . I do wonder how Lord Nelson would feel about the increase necessity for we to align with our english channel neighbour . labour ' s national insurance hike will hit small business , social care provider and local GP service across the country . this rise will have dire consequence for the many historic village and town of my rural constituency . in recent year , small business have increasingly be force out of our historic high street and replace by soulless international chain store and restaurant with the resource to cope with inflation . over time , our high street be lose their unique character . among the small business that will suffer be pub and brewery , which generate approximately £ 15 billion of tax revenue each year . accord to ukhospitality , the economic value of the hospitality industry in Tewkesbury be £ 67 million a year . last month , I visit the Plough in Prestbury , where I speak with the landlord , Emma , who tell I that this one establishment be worth £ 100 , 000 a year to HMRC . have diversify and restructure to the nth degree , she be now accumulate debt to stay solvent . the pub be also her home . how do the Government expect to accrue revenue if they tax such business into oblivion ? small local business be vital to the unique identity of rural high street across the country . they be often the backbone of local economy , and it be important that we do not inadvertently force they to the wall . this single policy will have such an outsized impact — I hope the Government will review this decision with economic growth in mind . to wind up for the Liberal Democrats , I call Clive Jones . I offer my thank to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , for deliver a powerful opening speech and for secure this important debate . I absolutely agree that public procurement should be more focused on buy british , and that access to finance need to be improve soon rather than later , so that our defence industry can upskill and respond to what be go to be a grow need . the Department for Business and Trade be synonymous with what Britain truly need . Britain need growth — most of we in this Chamber will agree with that . business need confidence in the UK as a place to invest . we have a Government who be stare stagnation in the face and fail to learn the lesson from the conservative party ' s economic vandalism , which stretch household finance to the brink . business be now leave brace for further pain once the Chancellor ' s job tax come into force . like many other , I be particularly concerned about the impact it will have on the hospitality sector and the great british pub . last Saturday , I visit the Station Tap in my constituency , which have be a pub for 150 year . while I pull one of the bad pint of my life , the owner share their concern about the Budget . the rise in national insurance contribution for just this one pub will add £ 12 , 000 to its business cost every year . it be no wonder that in a survey by the British Chambers of Commerce , 82 % of firm say that the rise in national insurance contribution will impact their business , force they to change their plan , make redundancy and stop invest in people and in growth . change to NICs be not the only issue with the Budget that the Station Tap ' s owner raise with I . it be overwhelmingly obvious that business rate be break . they ask I to give a clear message to the Minister that business rate be outdated and need meaningful reform — most importantly , soon rather than later . we would not be in a position where I seemingly have a new business raise this matter with I every week if the Government be get on with the work quickly . the owner be especially concerned about the plan reduction in relief for hospitality , which could cost independent publican £ 3 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 a year . other business in Wokingham warn that the loss of the relief could see their business push to the brink . Wokingham have some of the good pub in the country — the Queen ' s Head , the Queen ' s Oak , the Duke ' s Head and the Walter Arms , to name just a few . the Government should be champion those pub . what step be they take to monitor the impact of the reduction in business rate relief , and the rise in national insurance contribution on pub ? if the Minister ' s monitoring reveal that this Government ' s policy be lead to a high rate of business closure or be deter investment , will he implore the Treasury to reverse the taxis and , instead , tax the big bank , implement a proper tax on the super - profit of oil and gas company and tackle tax avoidance by properly invest in his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs ? People across the UK be watch with concern as the United States engage in economic sabotage of the global economy . in the UK , Britain ' s steel sector be brace itself for the pain of Trump ' s tariff , which be set to be apply next week . this will negatively impact our manufacturer , force price rise or reduce sale to the United States . will the Minister urgently update the House on his Department ' s effort to ensure that the UK be exclude from the steel and aluminium tariff ? it would also be helpful to understand what retaliatory action the Government would take if these tariff be apply and whether it would include some action against Elon Musk ' s Tesla . nobody want a trade war . it be bad for business , bad for consumer and bad for diplomatic relation . however , if we be to be attack , we must ensure that we simply do not take it on the chin . that be why I admire the confidence of our great Commonwealth and NATO ally , Canada . Donald Trump be try to undo our western alliance , threaten to annex a nation that share our king , and seek to weaken its economy as a staging ground for that propose takeover . the canadian Prime Minister and the Leader of his Majesty ' s Opposition in Canada be unite in want to be at the negotiating table to get the deal do with the UK as soon as possible . as for Canada become the 51st state of the USA , I do not know any Canadians who be interested in that . order . I remind the Liberal Democrat spokesman to bring his remark to a close so that we have time to hear from the Minister and the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we need to take action to deepen bilateral trade with Canada . do the Minister share Canada ' s sentiment about strengthen our economy ? do he agree that we need to take tough action to stand up for our canadian friend ? will the UK return to the negotiating table and start work on a trade deal with Canada as soon as possible ? I call the shadow Minister . I shall try to make my speech short and snappy , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) on secure this afternoon ' s debate , which have allow many member to articulate the concern that they be hear from business in their constituency and enable they to talk about the great importance of growth . growth be essential . we talk about the importance of defence and of increase spending on it from 2 . 5 % to 2 . 7 % and then up to 3 % , but of course we want the economy to grow at the same time . in the estimate before we today , the Secretary of State have lay out his ambitious goal for his Department . first , on the aim of deliver a comprehensive industrial strategy , I simply ask , eight month in , when will business see that . secondly , on a plan to provide small business with tool and support , I simply ask , eight month in , when will small business see that . thirdly , on a trade strategy that recognise that high - quality trade deal be necessary to give business access to international market to boost job and deliver economic growth here , I simply ask when business will see a change on that front . fourthly , on deliver sweep change to employment law , I have to say that , sadly , business have see that . they have see that the sweep change outline in the Employment Rights Bill , which we will be scrutinise next week , will take we back to 1970s - style employment law , add £ 1 billion in cost just to the Government ' s cost base alone . I wonder , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether at the end of the debate you might share a few word on whether it would have be appropriate for those hon . member who receive contribution from union to have declare they in the debate . we have have an excellent debate , but I do not hear any declaration of interest . I hear excellent contribution from those on the conservative Benches — from my hon . friend the Members for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) , for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) and for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) . they outline and summarise the challenge that business face up and down the country . in contribution from the hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Marton ) , for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , we hear a range of concern feel by real business that create the wealth of this country . I turn to trade . I note that , in the supplementary estimate , the Department mark an increase under sub - head A4 , the account that include first and foremost the trade policy implementation and negotiation group . the note explain that the increase be owe to " an international reorganisation within DBT which have bring our International Strategy and Development team into this group from Strategy and Investment . " strategy and investment , meanwhile , have be cut by almost the same amount that this account have be increase by . I wonder whether there be a little bit of smoke and mirror go on when it come to the amount dedicate to increase trade . increase trade be one of the key route to economic growth . business in our constituency would really benefit from further opening up of free trade . I note the welcome news that the Prime Minister talk to the President of America about a free trade agreement last week , but as of the end of January , no official or Minister from the Department have make any attempt to engage with the US Administration on trade . the Department have choose to abandon the position of chief trade negotiator , which be either deliberate self - harm or wilful incompetence . there be almost no public recognition by the Department or its Ministers of the UK ' s accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , which do indeed trip off the tongue . there be grow evidence that instead of invest in opportunity for trade with the US , Canada and the fast - grow market of Asia , the Government be revert to their ideological safeguard , rely on Brussels , and develop a Trojan horse strategy to realign the UK with the European Union . be the Department actually be give the tool that it need to deliver on trade deal ? if the Government claim to have set their sight higher , should not the resource reflect that ? I worry that we be see a classic example of big word , big ambition and Ministers just say the word " growth " , but nothing take place that actually deliver growth . it be eight month to the day since those on the Labour Benches enter Government . how many business in this country can say that thing have get well for they in the last eight month ? how many be more confident ? how many can say that they expect the trade situation face the United Kingdom to improve ? first , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , and indeed the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , for secure the debate , and for the work that they do on the Business and Trade Committee . the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway litter his speech with football analogy , to the extent that I wonder whether you be go to show he a red card , Madam Deputy Speaker , but you do not . he make many criticism of the Government , but all I would say be that we be not even at half - time yet . let we wait until we get to the end of the match . there be a number of important and interesting contribution to the debate . I will try to address as many of they as I can in the time that I have . it be clear that the Department be central to drive economic growth , ensure that we remain competitive on the global stage , and make work pay for everyone . the Government ' s growth mission have be our top priority since day one of take office , because we understand that without economic growth we can not invest in public service , nor can we raise living standard for hard - work family . to secure the growth that we need , we be guide by four key principle : build long - term stability ; renew our commitment to free and fair trade ; ease the investor journey ; and be a strategic , growth - focus state . we have waste no time in get to work on that , and in fix the foundation of the economy . my Department have be at the forefront of those effort , and I will try to explain the thing that we have do as I answer the point raise during the debate . I start with the comment of the Select Committee Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North . I be pleased to hear that he find terrific unity of purpose on the Government ' s ambition for growth . I join he in pay tribute to the civil servant who be help we to deliver on those ambition . he raise a number of important point . he talk about get the right workforce , as do my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) . we will have a levy - fund growth and skill offer that will deliver great flexibility for learner and employer . that will be align with our industrial strategy , create route into good , skilled job in grow industry . as a first step , we will ensure short duration and foundation apprenticeship in target sector . that will help more people to learn high - quality skill at work , fuel innovation in business across the country and provide high - quality entry pathway for young people . we will , through legislation , reduce the minimum duration of apprenticeship to eight month , so that short apprenticeship be possible from August 2025 . trailblazer apprenticeship in green energy , healthcare and film and tv production will be among the first to take advantage of that new offer . also , in response to call from employer , assessment plan will be less burdensome , focus on the must - have for occupational competency , rather than test every knowledge , skill or behaviour . the Select Committee Chairman make an important point on an issue that I have be look at carefully : how we harmonise regulation , make sure that we do not have different Departments talk to different people and say different thing , streamline , and ensure a cohesive environment in which business can invest and grow . he will be pleased to know that I have be meet colleague from other Departments , and particularly Lord Vallance , the Minister of State for science , research and innovation , who be look at innovation in this area . we also now have Government growth board , which be look at this Government ' s mission to ensure that that cross - departmental grip on matter . the Select Committee Chair , along with my hon . friend the Members for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) and for Tamworth , ask how we can use the British Business Bank to help business access finance . we be look very closely at that . the bank be operationally independent , but we be work with it to ensure that business can navigate the market well and have clear information and option available to they . there be also a package for encourage tech adoption among sme , and we hope that the British Growth Partnership will get that pension fund investment into some of the UK ' s fast grow company . the Select Committee Chair ask about the figure of £ 126 . 7 million . my understanding be that it be the result of a revaluation of the Department ' s investment portfolio . that be a standard process , and I be happy to put he in touch with official for a more detailed explanation of that , if he require it . my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Gregor Poynton ) ask about the Grangemouth refinery . it be deeply regrettable that we have have to step in and put plan in place there . there be £ 100 million for the Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal , which will help boost the local economy . there be a £ 1 . 5 million project to look at credible , long - term industrial option for the site , which we expect to report in the spring . the National Wealth Fund will also provide nearly £ 200 million of growth opportunity for the area . my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) highlight the devastating impact that a lack of a strategy can have on a community in her constituency . I join Opposition Members in thank her son for his service in the defence of our nation . she will be pleased to know that our industrial strategy Green Paper , " invest 2035 : the UK ' s modern industrial strategy " , set out the eight key growth - drive sector into which we want to channel investment and support in the long term . we want to unleash the full potential of those priority sector to spur growth , spread wealth and drive up employment across all four nation of the UK . each of the industry will have its own sector plan , set out how we intend to support business , build on exist success and unlock new opportunity . those sector plan be be design in partnership with business , devolve government , region and other key party . the industrial strategy , alongside sector plan for the growth - drive sector , will be publish later this year , and will be align with the multi - year spending review . the Minister be make an excellent speech set out this Government ' s ambitious plan . while he be look at the industrial strategy and those eight high - growth area , can I make a pitch for he to remember those foundational industry that sit below they , include ceramic ? without ceramic , refractory and those foundational industry , deliver the growth that the Department want in those eight high - growth area will simply be impossible . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I know as soon as he rise that he would raise the subject of the ceramics industry , such be his record of champion it . I will certainly pass his comment back to the relevant Minister . work in industry , I have personally experience the power of partnership between Government and industry when the Government set clear , powerful goal , and then collaborate with industry on deliver they . that have , in my experience , really fuel innovation and be key to deliver the growth that we desire . do the Minister agree that a partnership with industry , in which the Government set goal and we work together to deliver they , be key to deliver a successful industrial strategy ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and that be what we be attempt to deliver with our industrial strategy . engagement with business be continue on that . publication will , I believe , be in the late spring , and we will ensure that it be a very successful launch . I will draw my comment to a conclusion , but I want to acknowledge conservative Members ’ barrage of criticism for the Employment Rights Bill . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , just to make sure that the shadow Minister be not disappointed . no doubt we will debate the Bill in more detail next week , but I do hope that Conservative Members will have actually read it by then . they keep talk about go back to the 1970 , but the legislation that the Bill repeal be from 2023 and 2016 , so we be go back to 2015 at well . I hope that they get some well line before Report . in conclusion , we be make the UK a more attractive and easy place in which to invest and do business through our expand Office for Investment . our sector of the future be be embolden through our modern industrial strategy , which will ensure that we have the right environment and skill for they to innovate , invest and create clean growth . small and medium - sized business be be support with the capital and condition that they need to thrive , and million of employee be be afford great protection at work , so that they can support their family and enjoy a high standard of living , because we be determined to end the race to the bottom . I thank all member for contribute to the debate , and I be grateful for the important work of the Business and Trade Committee . I look forward to continue to work with it . I commend these estimate to the House . this have be an excellent debate . let I once again say that I be incredibly grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for ensure that we could spend time together debate the issue at stake . we hear some brilliant speech from across the House . in a way , my ambition for the debate be satisfied , because I want to ensure , after our report on the priority of the business community , and have secure this debate , that we actually hear business voice in this Chamber , and in the corridor of power . we do not give enough time , space or attention to business voice , and to hear about the challenge in boardroom and on shop floor . if we do that a little bit more , it would surprise we how much consensus there be in this country about the big move forward . this be for the economic historian among we . we have to recognise that we be at one of those moment in history that occur every 30 to 40 year . we have a series of geopolitical shock , and then we have a big , agonising debate about whether the country be in decline , whether it be all go to hell , or whether there be a different way forward , in which the country rally together and choose to build a different kind of sovereign capability . inevitably , that have consequence for the kind of state that emerge . we go through this in the 1980 , the 1940 and after world war one . we have to conduct that argument now at a moment when it be clear that the United States — that great power , that great ally of ours , that build the multilateral system begin in 1944 in San Francisco and then through to the end of world war two — in the word of Joseph Chamberlain , be a weary titan no long able to grasp the orb of its fate . we have to recognise that for those of we who support that multilateral rule - base order , we will have to step up . that will be difficult and expensive , but it will bring new opportunity for business growth and , crucially , for our constituent to earn a good living . the Deputy Speaker put the deferred question ( Standing Order no . 54 ) . Supplementary Estimate 2024 – 25 Department of Health and Social Care Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Department of Health and Social Care : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 7 , 956 , 143 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 1 , 140 , 958 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 6 , 827 , 154 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 592 , 196 , 000 be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 439 , 129 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum , not exceed £ 862 , 823 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . department for Business and Trade Resolved , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 , for expenditure by the Department for Business and Trade : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 952 , 875 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 655 , ( 2 ) further resource , not exceed £ 1 , 035 , 833 , 000 , be authorise for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 2 , 037 , 739 , 000 . the Deputy Speaker then put the Questions on the outstanding estimate ( Standing Order no . 55 ) . with the leave of the House , I will put the Questions on motion 3 to 8 together . estimate 2025 – 26 ( Navy ) Vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2026 , a number not exceed 39 , 850 all rank be maintain for Naval and Marine Service and that number in the Reserve Naval and Marines Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2025 – 26 , HC 638 . estimate 2025 - 26 ( Army ) vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2026 , a number not exceed 97 , 940 all rank be maintain for Army Service and that number in the Reserve Land Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2025 – 26 , HC 638 . estimate 2025 - 26 ( air ) vote a Resolved , that , during the year end with 31 March 2026 , a number not exceed 35 , 800 all rank be maintain for Air Force Service and that number in the Reserve Air Forces be authorise for the purpose of Parts 1 , 3 , 4 and 5 of the Reserve Forces Act 1996 up to the maximum number set out in Votes a 2025 – 26 , HC 638 . estimate , Excesses 2023 – 24 [ relevant document : Eleventh Report of the Committee of Public Accounts , Excess Votes 2023 – 24 , HC 719 . ] resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2024 : ( 1 ) resource , not exceed £ 219 , 401 , 000 , be authorise to make good excess for use for current purpose as set out in the statement of Excesses 2023 – 24 , HC 657 and HC 725 , and ( 2 ) resource , not exceed £ 2 , 417 , 000 , be authorise to make good excess for use for capital purpose as so set out . supplementary estimate 2024 – 25 resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 : ( 1 ) further resource , not exceed £ 99 , 602 , 165 , 000 , be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 613 , HC 655 and HC 661 , ( 2 ) the resource authorise for capital purpose be reduce by £ 25 , 436 , 251 , 000 as so set out , and ( 3 ) the sum authorise for issue out of the Consolidated Fund be reduce by £ 1 , 683 , 639 , 000 . estimate , vote on Account 2025 – 26 resolve , that , for the year end with 31 March 2026 : ( 1 ) resource , not exceed £ 402 , 046 , 708 , 000 be authorise , on account , for use for current purpose as set out in HC 446 , HC 605 , HC 614 , HC 656 , HC 660 , HC 662 and HC 706 , ( 2 ) resource , not exceed £ 92 , 524 , 444 , 000 , be authorise , on account , for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a sum , not exceed £ 409 , 837 , 337 , 000 , be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund , on account , and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Justin Madders . ) order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Darren Jones , Emma Reynolds and James Murray bring in the Bill . Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill Presentation and First read James Murray accordingly present a Bill to authorise the use of resource for the year end with 31 March 2024 , 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2026 ; to authorise the issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for those year ; and to appropriate the supply authorise by this Act for the year end with 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2025 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 193 ) . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Food and Feed ( Regulated Products ) ( Amendment , Revocation , Consequential and Transitional Provision ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 29 January , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , I can inform the House that the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments have consider the order on motion 10 and 11 on capital gain tax and determine that they raise no issue that need to be report to the House . Capital Gains Tax that the draft Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement ( Belarus ) ( Revocation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Capital Gains Tax that the draft Double Taxation Relief ( Russian Federation ) ( Revocation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . Petition - Income threshold for partner and family visa I rise to present a petition on the minimum income threshold for partner and family visa , alongside a corresponding online petition , sign by more than 420 resident in Bradford , declare that everyone deserve the right to family life under article 8 of the european convention on human right , and that it be fundamentally wrong that people be deny the ability to sponsor a spouse or family member to live with they because of an arbitrary income threshold that be now be review by the Migration Advisory Committee . around half of all employee in the UK earn under the current frozen threshold of £ 29 , 000 , include nurse , police community support officer and nursery teacher at the start of their career , disproportionately impact woman and young people , who be unable to exercise their right to family life . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take a compassionate approach to partner / family visa , withdraw the previous Government ' s change to the minimum income threshold , and ensure that any future threshold be accessible and no high than the National Living Wage . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Bradford East , declare that everyone deserve the right to family life under Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights and therefore the minimum income threshold for partner / family visa should be withdraw . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take a compassionate approach to partner / family visa , withdraw the previous Government ' s change to the minimum income threshold , and ensure that any future threshold be accessible and no high than the National Living Wage . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003049 ] type 1 diabetes and Disordered Eating Services Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) it be a privilege to have secure a debate on a chronic but often misunderstood condition that affect many people across our country : the correlation between type 1 diabete and disorder eating , know as " T1DE " for short . separately , those two condition be well - know and well document , but together they exacerbate one another and can , in extreme case , become a life sentence . on an individual level , type 1 diabetes be a chronic autoimmune condition characterise by the pancrea be unable to produce insulin , mean that those with the condition be require to carefully monitor their blood glucose level and administer insulin . as we know , that delicate balance demand constant attention . many of we have the luxury of go out for dinner and choose a meal base on what we like the sound of — shamefully , in my case , often with too little thought to the sugar content , calorie or how the body will digest it . for those with type 1 diabete , however , that blissful ignorance simply be not an option . for they , life revolve around counting carbohydrate , monitor blood sugar level and inject insulin . it be relentless . to put that into number , a child diagnose with type 1 diabete at the age of five face up to 19 , 000 injection and 50 , 000 finger - prick blood test by the time they be 18 . every moment of every day be a balance act between food , activity and insulin . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . I speak to he outside the Chamber and he know exactly what I be go to say . I have be a type 2 diabetic for almost 20 year , and I understand very well the fact that monitor food intake be part and parcel of daily life . for those who suffer from an eat disorder , the constant food noise need to be address by a professional , but diabetic clinic do not have the resource to deal with that . do he agree that we need mental health support link for diabetic throughout the United Kingdom ? it be a pleasure to take my first intervention from the hon . Gentleman . I pay tribute to he for his campaigning on this issue and the personal experience that he bring to the House . I will come later in my speech to my experience of mental health service . I absolutely agree that we need to ensure that people with type 1 and type 2 diabete have all the support they need for their mental health and manage their condition . for some , type 1 diabetes morph into a the deep challenge of disorder eating — it be not difficult to see how that can happen . give the strict attention to diet and nutritional information that type 1 diabetes necessitate , unhealthily restrictive and avoidant approach to food can sometimes , at least to begin with , be indistinguishable from healthy diabetes management . as we know , in some case , one side effect of insulin - base treatment can be weight gain . that lead some people with type 1 diabete to realise that by restrict their insulin intake , or even stop it altogether , they can essentially eat what they like and lose weight . however , the medical consequence of that be stark , include kidney problem , bone wastage , amputation , blindness and even death . one of the most insidious aspect of T1DE be how difficult it can be to identify until its devastating consequence for both physical and mental health begin to manifest themselves . People suffer with T1DE often say that the isolation that come with try to navigate both a chronic illness and disorder eating be unimaginable for anyone who have not experience it . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . as someone with type 1 diabete , have be diagnose only four year ago I completely understand the feeling of isolation just from have diabete , let alone have to deal with disorder eat as well . do he agree that we need to destigmatise both condition , so that we can ensure the right support for patient ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady , and I thank she for the live experience that she bring to this House , and for how candid she have be in share her experience . I could not agree with she more . many people be fall through the crack of a system that often fail to recognise the unique need of people who live with both type 1 diabete and disorder eat . while disorder eat in those with type 1 diabetes be sometimes refer to as " niche " or " rare " , it be become increasingly clear that it be simply under - recognise , and it be often miss . evidence suggest that up to 40 % of woman and girl , and up to 15 % of man and boy with type 1 diabete experience some form of disorder eat . that be a quarter of the 400 , 000 people in the UK with type 1 diabete . my hon . friend make the important point that this issue affect so many people . I have direct experience with a family member who have type 1 diabete and what , back then , be refer to as diabulimia . they could not get support because the medical profession do not accept that it be a condition . do my hon . friend agree that part of tackle this issue be recognise its impact on family across the country , as that be the first step to ensure that people get the support they need ? I agree with my hon . friend . we need far well awareness of this condition , and well support for people affect and their family — I will come on to that a little later in my remark . as my hon . Friend say , a key issue we still face be the absence of internationally recognise criterion for T1DE , which hamper accurate diagnosis and classification , as well as collaboration and research . within our nhs , pocket of fantastic practice have exist for a long time , but overall the current system often do not take account of the unique challenge face by people with T1DE . eat disorder specialist might lack the necessary understanding of diabetes management , while diabete care team may not be fully equip to deal with the psychological aspect of eat disorder . the gap in knowledge and siloing of service mean that people with T1DE sometimes come up against exclusion criterion and will end up disengage from service at a critical point in their condition . the need for join - up , bespoke service be where the five NHS England T1DE pilot site come in . those trailblaze project be combine diabete and eat disorder support into one service , help people to recover fast from T1DE and reduce repeat hospital admission . that be where my interest in T1DE come in , because in a past life I work in the communication team at the Coventry and Warwickshire partnership NHS trust . when it be select as one of the second wave of pilot site , I have the privilege of work on preparation for the launch of the new service . although I sadly move on before the service be launch , that be a highlight of my year work for our NHS . what I learn about T1DE in those few month have stay with I , as have the expertise and dedication of Dr Tony Winston and his team at the Aspen centre in Warwick , which be to be commend . I pay tribute to CWPT and all the pilot site for the pioneering work they have do to develop these service from the ground up , co - design they with patient who at last be be hear and treat . diabetes UK tell I that it support NHS England in the development of those pilot , and it be call for long - term funding to ensure that good practice be share and , most importantly , that support be offer by those service on a sustainable footing . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . type 1 diabetes be incredibly demand to live with . it be a game of number , and as such it can be greatly help by technology , which be develop rapidly . I wish to put on the record how important it be that the Government ensure universal access to such transformative technology for all who be insulin dependent with diabete . even if someone ' s iPhone can be their pancrea , type 1 diabetes be unique in its constant psychological demand . it invade people ' s live socially as well as practically , with the result that type 1 diabete combine with disorder eating be a perfect storm . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we provide not just practical but emotional support that be integrate not just around an individual but also the family , to provide for the severe depth of need for this complex condition ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s comment on the need for technological advancement . I will come on to support for the family a little later in my comment , but it be critical to have a support network around people with T1DE . to the credit of the last government , they recognise the need for T1DE - specific service , but they allow the initial two pilot , in Bournemouth and London , to close in April last year . those of we who be member of the all - party parliamentary group on diabete have hear story about patient who have suffer as a result of that cliff edge . have inherit a highly uncertain and unfunded position , I very much welcome the Government ' s recent announcement of a 12 - month extension to the ongoing pilot . that will ensure sufficient patient number and , more importantly , safeguard vital service where they already exist . I encourage the Department of Health and Social Care to seek additional investment through the spending review . now that service have be up and run for over two year , our focus should turn to build up to a national offer , so that people with T1DE in part of the country like Staffordshire can benefit for the first time . another vital effort will be raise awareness of T1DE , particularly within general practice and eat disorder service , to ensure that people with both condition receive tailor care . this be a call not solely for increase training for healthcare professional , but for great recognition of the issue within the system as a whole . the King ' s Fund and Centre for Mental Health report , " long - term condition and mental health : the cost of co - morbidity " , show that complication stem from mental health illness in people with long - term physical illness increase the cost of care by an average of 45 % . in June 2022 , a parliamentary inquiry into T1DE be launch . it be very ably co - chair by Theresa May and Sir George Howarth , both then member of this House . I acknowledge the work of the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , who I have know for many year , who co - write the inquiry ' s report during his time work for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation , now Breakthrough T1D . the inquiry gather evidence from expert , those with live experience , researcher and voluntary sector leader . the report be launch in January last year and the key finding include the need for international diagnosis criterion , update National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline , the continuation of funding so that pilot site can become centre of excellence , well datum sharing , and a T1DE peer support offer to reach every corner of the country . I urge the Government to look at increase awareness and training , particularly to give family and carer the tool and support they need to be able to play their part in early intervention and treatment pathway , as hon . friend have mention . diabetes UK be currently fund a research project into the prevention of T1DE in child . it will test out an intervention design to help parent and carer recognise sign of unhealthy eat behaviour . there be a lot of great work go on for we to build on . to conclude , I thank those run the NHS pilot project for all their work , Breakthrough T1D and diabetes UK for the briefing they have give I , and all the member who have contribute to the debate . we must do everything we can to support people with type 1 diabete and disorder eat . the issue be not small or rare , and it deserve our attention in this place . by raise awareness , integrate service and provide support for family , we can help people overcome T1DE and lead healthy , happy life . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) for secure the debate and all hon . member who have contribute . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who appear to be quickly make an exit but remain in his place , speak about mental health . the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) speak about destigmatisation for disorder eating and for type 1 diabete . by share her diagnosis in this place , she be make a huge contribution towards destigmatisation , and I thank she for that . my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) share his family ' s story , which be heartbreaking and show the impact that these issue have on people . my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) talk about technological advancement and support . as my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase outline in his remark , type 1 diabete and disorder eat — T1DE — be not a widely know condition , yet it potentially affect up to a third of people with type 1 diabetes . People with T1DE find themselves trap in a battle between need to control their diabete with insulin and try to control their weight in an unhealthy way . it be a vicious cycle . People with T1DE experience increase ill health and , sadly , an increase chance of early death . study have show that people with T1DE who restrict insulin have a mortality rate more than three time high than those who do not . we should pay tribute to the diabetes charity that be do so much for people live with diabete across the UK and tackle this problem head on , such as Beat , which have dedicate helpline for people struggle with this condition ; Breakthrough T1D , which fund international research to cure , treat and prevent type 1 diabete and its complication ; and Diabetes UK , which do a fantastic job of articulate the community ' s need to Government . I congratulate my friend , the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , on secure this debate . as be mention , I use to work for the type 1 diabetes charity jdrf , as it be then — it be now Breakthrough T1D . we use to regularly have meeting with Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care . one of the key thing that I and , I be sure , member across the House would like to see be the new Government take up the recommendation of the report by Theresa May and Sir George Howarth . will the Minister agree to meet the APPG for diabete to talk about how those recommendation can be implement ? I be more than happy to meet the APPG to discuss those matter . I be really move to read Lynsey ' s story on the Diabetes UK website . one thing that really stand out to I be her experience of turn 18 and move to an adult clinic . she say : " I become a number in a system , rather than a patient . every time I go , I see a different team , and would have to explain my entire medical history . it feel like it wasn ' t worth my time , and I certainly wasn ' t go to have a conversation about what be go on with people I didn ' t know . " after just a few appointment , Lynsey stop go . T1DE cut across diabete and mental healthcare , and Lynsey ' s interaction with the NHS show that we must never treat patient like interchangeable statistic , bounce around a cold system that do not seem to care for they . instead , each patient should benefit from a unique , join - up approach . to its credit , NHS England have recognise that there be an unmet need for well treatment of T1DE . as my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase have recognise , it have begin pilot type 1 diabete and disorder eat service , two of which come online in 2019 . the aim of those pilot be to develop the evidence base around how good to manage T1DE by test an integrated pathway , which mean that patient such as Lynsey would not be oblige to recount their medical history on every visit . in the past five year , NHS England have expand on the original pilot , with funding extend for five T1DE pilot site until March 2026 to ensure that there be sufficient patient number for we to get a full picture of what be happen on the ground . I thank my hon . friend for his contribution to those pilot . while those pilot be gather evidence , NHS England be look carefully at the finding , with a view to develop a future national strategy . each of the five new pilot area be submit quarterly datum to the evaluation , and it intend to publish its analysis of the datum by September . I thank the Minister for her comprehensive and helpful response . I first come to this House in 2010 , and in 2015 a diabetes plan for the whole of the United Kingdom come out of Westminster for all the region together , but that come to an end . I have always ask and hope for that plan to come together again . will she consider have a diabetes plan for all of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland work together , because I understand that in Northern Ireland we have the high number of type 1 diabetic anywhere in the United Kingdom ? as I be sure the hon . member know , health be obviously a devolved matter . however , I be more than happy to look at the issue he have raise and come back to he . the datum from the pilot area will also be share with all the integrate care board , so that we can build up the case for more investment in T1DE from ICB budget while look at way in which NHS England can support icb in commission their service . while those pilot site be do critical work , the NHS be support people with diabete to live well . central to that be make sure that patient have access to annual review that cover eight process recommend by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence . we know that people who attend annual diabetes review have much well outcome for emergency hospital admission , amputation , retinopathy and mortality . that be why it be right that the NHS be invest £ 14 . 5 million over the next two year , support up to 140 , 000 people between the age of 18 and 39 to receive additional tailor health check by healthcare staff . that support will include vital support to break down any stigma associate with diabetes while help those people to manage their condition , from blood sugar level control and weight management to minimise the risk of heart disease . as have be touch on , technology play a critical role in help people with diabete to live healthy life , and there be great potential to do the same for people with T1DE . NICE have make positive recommendation on offer real - time continuous glucose monitoring and hybrid closed loop technology to adult and child with type 1 and type 2 diabete , mean that those treatment be now offer on the NHS . over two third of people with type 1 diabete currently use glucose monitoring to help manage their condition , and follow NICE ' s recommendation on hybrid closed loop system , NHS England have develop a five - year national strategy that begin in April last year . I know that five year will seem like a long time to many of those young people struggle with this condition here and now , but the NHS do need an implementation period to ensure we have all the right people with the right skill within specialist adult service . we can not compromise an inch on safety , and NHS trust should only ever provide hybrid closed loop if specialist train clinical staff , experience in use insulin pump and continuous glucose monitor , be in place . I can speak from personal experience about the power of hybrid closed loop system and the safety they present from day one , compare with the conventional treatment use injection . I encourage the Minister to explore every way possible — use collective peer forum or any other vehicle that can be imagine — to accelerate the deployment of hybrid closed loop technology as fast as we possibly can . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and for share his live experience . I be more than happy to consider his suggestion and discuss they far . finally , I will touch on the encourage work of the early surveillance for autoimmune diabetes — elsa — programme . type 1 diabetes be not preventable , but the soon we reach people , the soon we can care for they . ELSA be a child ' s screen programme that can detect type 1 diabete through a simple fingerstick blood test by look for four antibody associate with a high risk of develop diabete . ELSA launch in November 2022 , and over 20 , 000 child have already take part . the study have make a huge effort to screen all of those child by February , and we be still wait to hear whether that ambitious target have be reach . I would be pleased to keep my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase and the House update on that programme . it be clear that T1DE be a serious and often overlook condition that require a more integrated and compassionate approach to care . the work be do through NHS pilot programme , investment in diabetes management , and advance in technology all represent meaningful progress , but there be still much more to do . it be vital that we continue to build on the evidence gather through these initiative to ensure that people with T1DE receive the tailored , consistent and supportive care they deserve . no patient should feel like a number in the system , or be force to navigate a fragmented approach to their health . by work together through Government , the NHS and charity , we can ensure that people with T1DE receive the right support at the right time . I look forward to work with my hon . friend to get this do . question put and agree to . House adjourn .