before I start my speech , I would like to pay a huge tribute to Lord Prescott , even though he cause great consternation to my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) when she be stand right behind he as general secretary of Welsh Labour during a certain incident in north Wales . I be sure John would have welcome today ' s debate , campaign as tirelessly as he do to extend opportunity , champion worker ' s right and , as mention by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , open up on his own mental health . my sincere sympathy go to his family at this time . he will be sorely miss , but fondly remember . we have have a very positive and constructive debate today , in that lovely consensual way on a Thursday afternoon when we look at the real issue and think how we can tackle they and what we need to do . I be pleased to respond in this debate , celebrate International Men ' s Day and join 80 country in mark the contribution that man make to our world . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for make sure we have this opportunity . he be the vice - chair of the APPG on man and boy ' issue , and now we have find out who the chair be : the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . I be sure there be a great partnership there and that we will hear a great deal more from they about the priority and the thing that we need to tackle . I thank all member who have take part in the debate . we have certainly have a very thoughtful array of contribution . in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland , who open the discussion today , be man enough and brave enough to open up about his own issue and how he share those with one of his local group . so many local group and the excellent work that they have do have be mention in today ' s debate . as my hon . friend outline , some of the main issue be health , suicide , crime — whether it be commit a crime or be a victim of a crime — exclusion from school , social and cultural expectation , and the need for positive male role model . there be , of course , also a large focus on mental health , education , entertainment and the position of influencer . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) mention a number of very important organisation in her constituency . she speak about prostate cancer and that pernicious issue of the subculture , incel , and the harm that it be cause . we then hear from the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) who mention his own excellent volunteer group , include the Aylsham man ' s shed . my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) talk about young man , who , when genuinely consider teenage issue such as body image and relationship in a perfectly normal way , be target by extremist with horrendous misogyny , bigotry and homophobia . they be be set against the institution that keep our society together . there be so much that we need to do in that area . as my hon . Friend mention , it be about restore young man ' s hope — restore hope that they have a future — and help they to achieve their goal . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) focus very clearly on the issue of trans man and transphobia . I would just say to he that the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that trans people can receive the care and support that they need when access NHS service . we frequently engage with a wide range of stakeholder in this area , include the LGBT + health adviser , Dr Michael Grady . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) speak about the need for man to talk and to be able to access the service that they need . she talk about a whole range of service , right from the time of need paternity leave through to the need of veteran — the whole age range of need for support for man . my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) talk about tackle stereotype . that remind I of a quite old - fashioned headteacher , who I once work under in a school in Swansea . she say to the boy , " if you want to be in the rugby team , you must be in the choir . " that be the same sort of idea : break down the stereotype that man should not be do artistic , wonderful and creative thing as well as physical thing . my hon . Friend also mention the tragedy of suicide and again talk about the organisation in his constituency that have do very good work in help man in that respect . my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) talk about stereotype and the pressure of those stereotype , man ' s suicide , the need for mental health support for man and the need to encourage man to talk . the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , talk about farmer and how extraordinary and welcome it be to find middle - aged farmer now open up . again , he mention the issue of prostate cancer and how , as a doctor , he would advise every man to get check . he stress the importance of be open about health and talk about it .