Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what recent step she have take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . tackle violence against woman and girl be one of the Government ' s key priority . we be make progress in deliver various cross - Government workstream , include the tackle violence against woman and girl strategy and the rape review action plan . three quarter of police - record domestic abuse case be close due to evidential difficulty or because the victim do not support further action . do the Minister agree that Labour ' s proposal to put rape and domestic abuse specialist in every police force in England and Wales will give woman the confidence to come forward and secure more conviction ? we will have 2 , 000 rape specialist across all police force by April . in the autumn statement , the Prime Minister announce that the Government would provide £ 2 million of additional funding for a flexible fund that trial one - off payment to victim of domestic abuse . that fund be make available to victim on 31 January . last week , I co - host an event here in Parliament with a delegation from Israel who have first - hand experience of the aftermath of 7 October . they describe innocent woman , dead or alive , who have be rape by terrorist . Hamas desecrate their body and even booby - trap they . those act of sexual violence must be condemn by every institution and individual who care about woman ' s right . I thank my hon . friend and her co - chair for organise what be for attendee an extremely difficult meeting . we hear the harrowing account of witness and family member of young girl who be kidnap on 7 October , and we hear from the first responder who find the body of woman and girl of all age with obvious sign of sexual violence . female soldier be find naked with nail and sharp object shove into their vagina . one tell of a mother he find with her hand tie behind her back , naked and bleed from the waist down , shoot in the back of the head , and with a live grenade leave in her hand for whoever find her body . we must support the courage of those witness in give that harrowing testimony about Hamas ' s mass - scale perpetration of sexual violence on 7 October . we can not be silent about these atrocity . we must ensure that the world do not forget that sexual violence shatter life and devastate community . the UK stand in solidarity with survivor and continue to call for the release of the remain hostage . I appreciate that the Government have be try to tackle violence against woman and girl , specifically with the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . unfortunately , amendment that would have go far to protect migrant woman , who too often still feel unable to come forward and report abuse for fear of their datum be share and their be detain or deport , be not accept . will the Minister commit to reassess the merit of prevent survivor ' personal datum from be share with the Home Office for immigration purpose ? that be a matter for the Home Office . I support all the work that Home Office Ministers be do to tackle domestic abuse , and I know there would have be good reason for not accept those amendment to the Act . we will continue to do all we can . I have just hear from the Minister for safeguard — the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) — that concession be be make . we will continue to work with she and other to tackle domestic violence in all its form . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . in some instance , there be good reason why immigration control should be able to work with force of law enforcement when it come to domestic abuse . my constituent Emma have be serially abuse , harass and stalk by a US national , who cross the border with no visa — he do not need one — to continue his campaign of harassment . will my right hon . friend please work closely with the Home Office to ensure that british woman be protect from foreign abuser who have find way around our immigration system ? my right hon . friend be right to raise that . I ask she to let her constituent know that the Government be do all they can . the safeguarding Minister have say that she will write to my right hon . friend so that this specific case can be far investigate . Windrush Compensation Scheme what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the time take to process claim to the Windrush compensation scheme . what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the time take to process claim to the Windrush compensation scheme . what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the time take to process claim to the Windrush compensation scheme . as of December 2023 , 91 % of all claim either have receive a final decision or be less than six month old . the Windrush scheme have reduce the time take to allocate a substantive casework decision from 18 month to less than four month . that include make all essential eligibility check together with a preliminary assessment to make an initial interim payment of £ 10 , 000 wherever possible . in response to a parliamentary question , the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , confirm that by April last year , 41 of the 6 , 122 Windrush compensation claimant have sadly die before their claim be settle — an increase of more than 100 % since 2021 . will the Minister update we on how many applicant have now die while wait for the Government to right the wrong do to thousand of innocent survivor and their family ? I can confirm that we have be make aware of 53 claimant who have unfortunately pass away . I want to provide the hon . Lady with two reassurance : first , if we be notify an individual be suffer from a critical or life - limit illness , their claim be prioritise ; secondly , if they do pass away , their family be still able to pursue their claim . only 14 % of 150 , 000 eligible applicant to the compensation scheme have receive redress . will the Government learn lesson from the Horizon scandal and listen to victim and campaign group who be call on they to lower the burden of proof for claim , and ensure that legal aid be guarantee to all eligible claimant ? so far , £ 75 million have be pay out on more than 2 , 000 claim . I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that it be not appropriate to draw precise equivalence with thing like the Horizon scheme , because that involve a judicial process , with different fact , different loss and different harm . however , we have be make consistent improvement to the compensation scheme , include make it easy for applicant to use , and we have rapidly accelerate the speed at which we make our payment . victim of the Windrush scandal have experience huge injustice of destitution , humiliation and varied health issue , as well as delay in receive compensation . to make matter bad , they do not currently receive compensation for the loss of private pension . will the Minister look into reduce the delay and compensate Windrush victim for private pension loss ? we consider each claim on its fact , and no two claim be the same . I would be happy to write to the hon . Lady about specific issue , but I reassure she that we do not take a blanket approach to each individual and we assess claim individually . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Women and Equalities . the Conservatives have fail the Windrush generation twice now : first by deny their right as british citizen , and secondly by delay their compensation , as we have just hear again . labour would sort out the compensation scheme , re - establish the major change programme and Windrush unit scrap by the Conservatives and appoint a Windrush commissioner to ensure that this kind of scandal never happen again . what be the Government ' s plan here ? I find it difficult to accept that a scheme be fail when more than 80 % of claim have now receive a final decision , and more than 90 % have either receive a final decision or be less than six month old . so I disagree with that . I think it be suggest that we should take the scheme out of the Home Office — perhaps that be labour ' s proposal . I remind the hon . Lady that Martin Levermore , the independent adviser to the Windrush scheme , support the scheme remain in the Home Office in his most recent report , publish in March 2022 . there be no accountability for the failure be feel so acutely by so many people who , frankly , do not have much time leave to see justice . the Windrush generation and their family help to build our NHS , but today we see big inequality in health outcome . labour ' s race equality Act would include a target to close the appalling maternal mortality gap for black and asian woman . it seem another nine month have pass since the maternity disparity taskforce last meet — be that because the Minister for Women and Equalities think this be another of her allege fake problem ? I say to the hon . Lady that that be not accept . in fact , the Health Secretary make an announcement on maternal service this week ; I think it would be appropriate to refer to my colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care , and then I will write to the hon . Lady on this point . domestic Abuse whether she have have recent discussion with the Domestic Abuse Commissioner on take step to help tackle so - call honour - base abuse . I meet the Domestic Abuse Commissioner regularly , and our last joint visit be to a refuge for minoritise woman for whom honour - base abuse be a specific issue . it be important work of the Home Office to look at the specific harm connect with this issue . one of the thing we be most proud of be our forced marriage unit , which have provide support service to more than 300 case in the past year . we also fund a national honour - base abuse helpline , which have help more than 2 , 500 people in the past 12 month . Savera UK , which be base in my constituency , and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner be concern by this Government ' s failure to provide a statutory definition of so - call honour - base abuse . do the Minister agree that that will lead to under - reporting and a lack of detail on the scale of the problem ? I be afraid that the Government take the opposite view . we use the expression honour - base abuse , which have be controversial in itself , because often victim understand it the good . victim of honour - base abuse be often the hard to reach , and sometimes be the least able to articulate their claim and to escape their circumstance . we keep the definition wide to capture successfully all the various insidious form that it take . let I reassure the hon . Lady that both the Crown Prosecution Service and the Home Office use a work definition to guide investigation and , so far , it be prove effective . one of the most insidious form of domestic abuse be conversion therapy . it be cruel and it do not work . could my hon . friend give I some indication of when legislation will come forward to ban it ? I can reassure my hon . friend that the Government will publish a draft bill on that in due course . STEM Jobs what step she be take to help support woman into science , technology , engineering and mathematic job . we be help to get young girl and woman into STEM sector in three key way : first , by increase the number of young girl take up course . we have see a 50 % increase in the number of undergraduate STEM course take up by young woman . secondly , this week be National Apprenticeship Week , and 70 % of job be now access through an apprenticeship , which be help young woman get into STEM career . thirdly , we be help woman with experience of work in STEM who have leave the profession to return to the workplace with our STEM returner project . university technical college be a good place for young woman to start in STEM . I welcome the new UTC in Southampton , which will provide the extra place that Portsmouth UTC be unable to offer . some 6 , 000 girl attend UTCs around the country , of whom 82 % go on to apprenticeship , university or straight into employment — mostly into STEM career . do my hon . friend agree that UTCs provide a great start to a career in STEM , and that the proposal for utc sleeve in secondary school will help more girl into STEM career ? I absolutely agree . university technical college provide an excellent experience for young people , not just academically but in provide technical skill . they have excellent link with industry , which provide great work experience for those pupil . I be pleased that the young people in my hon . friend ' s constituency have such great option for utc provision . I be always encourage by the number of young lady and girl who wish to be involve in science , technology and mathematic in Northern Ireland . they can do the job every bit as well man . be it not important to ensure that company that wish to employ people do more to encourage young lady to take up job ? the hon . member be absolutely right . the Government can not do it all ; we need industry , and there be some great example . we have a £ 17 million scholarship programme for artificial intelligence and datum science conversion course . we also have the UK Space Agency invest £ 15 million into diverse workforce stream , particularly to help young woman get into the sector . he be right that we need to work hand in glove with industry . care responsibility and work what step the Government be take to help support woman with caring responsibility to continue work . we all know that woman take on the bulk of care responsibility . the Carer ' s Leave Regulations 2024 will come into force on 6 April across England , Wales and Scotland , allow carer to take a week of unpaid leave from the workplace know that their job be protect . the ministerial team know that it be an absolute scandal that in all these year of so - call popular conservative Government we have see such a bad deal for early year , carer and talented woman . legion of they want to use their talent at work but be stop by the high childcare cost in the world . I would respectfully say to the hon . Gentleman that God give we two ear and a mouth for a reason , and I would encourage he to put his listening ear on to hear about the track record of this Government . we have , for instance , improve payment for carer , introduce groundbreake legislation to allow flexible working from day one , and legislate for parental leave include share parental leave and paternity leave . the kinship care strategy be launch in December to provide a funding model for kinship carer . we have go far than any Government with our plan to improve the life of carer and value the work that they do . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . that right to flexible working would particularly benefit worker with caring responsibility , most of whom be woman , but unfortunately the UK Government ' s response to the result of their consultation on flexible working simply do not go far enough to provide some of the real practical support need by many people with such responsibility . last week Nikki Pound of the TUC tell the Women and Equalities Committee that one in three request for flexible working be deny by employer . what step be the UK Government take to give real support to worker with caring responsibility and ensure that flexible working be a day - one right by default ? I be a carer myself , hold down a full - time job , so I be aware of the difficulty involve . as I have say , the Government have pass legislation allow flexible work from day one , and we have also introduce 18 week of leave entitlement for parent . that be on top of the Carer ' s Leave Regulations 2024 , which will come into force on 6 April . we have go far than any other Government in introduce those right for carer . disabled People : Energy Bills Support if she will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of Government support for energy bill on disabled people . the Government understand the importance of this issue . I have recently meet key stakeholder represent disabled people , include member of Disability UK and cross - whitehall colleague . my constituent Mr Peter Bodek have a severe lung condition which necessitate the use of oxygen . there be mould in his house , and it be get on to his clothe . he can only afford two small electric heater . I should be grateful if a Minister could meet I , very briefly , to discuss this rather difficult situation . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that issue , and I speak both for myself and on behalf of the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work in say that of course we will have a meeting . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . in the light of some of the commentary about the employment tribunal ' s judgment in the case of Professor Miller and Bristol University , I want to clarify the fact that antisemitism must continue to be challenge wherever it arise . we have see people in this country use their view on Israel as an excuse to display antisemitism . we have see that in protest on our street , and also in our university . it be therefore important to stress that this ruling do not change the fact that while academic have the right to express view , they can not behave in a way that amount to harassment of jewish student . disguise that as discourse about Israel would be no more lawful than any other form of antisemitism . the Government will consider the ruling carefully , and we will continue to do all in our power to protect jewish people throughout our country . on Monday , my hon . friend the Member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) host a very positive event mark the start of the Football v . Homophobia month of action . will Ministers join I in thank all those involve in the campaign — which include LEAP sport and the TIE campaign in Scotland — and offer their wholehearte support for make football a safe and welcome sport for LGBT people ? of course we join the hon . gentleman in that . I pay tribute to the work of the Minister for Equalities , who have be very supportive of the campaign — as be all of we in the ministerial team . I hear more frequent use of the word " microaggression " . as an engineer , I know that " micro " mean something extremely small . it be tiny . in fact , it be one millionth of whatever a standard aggression might be . have the Minister a view on this , and do she recognise it as a new phenomenon ? how big a priority might it be ? as my hon . friend will know , I too be an engineer by training , and we engineer have to stick together . we be very sceptical when people introduce to the lexicon term that be not helpful to the real work of tackle serious criminal behaviour . I be not a fan of that term , and my hon . friend will be pleased to know that microaggression training be remove from the Government Campus prospectus in November 2022 . I call the shadow Minister . under the Conservatives , police - record rape have soar to record high while conviction have fall to record low . it emerge last week that the conservative police and crime commissioner in Cheshire victim - blame girl wear short skirt for this epidemic . why be these attitude still tolerate in the conservative party ? those attitude be not tolerate in the conservative party . I have not see the remark the hon . Lady refer to , but I be sure that we can investigate . however , I will push back on what she say about rape statistic . the fact be that , for the year end March 2023 , the crime survey for England and Wales show a 5 . 1 % reduction in the number of adult experience domestic abuse — a statistically significant decrease — compare with the year end March 2020 . last month I receive a letter from my local NHS trust regard child ' s service at Southend Hospital . it refer to woman and " birth people " go into labour . can my right hon . friend clarify whether the term " birth people " be require language under the Equality Act 2010 ? if not , do she agree that it should not be use , because it be dehumanising , confusing and insult to many woman ? this Conservative Government and this conservative Prime Minister have be clear that biological sex matter , and language be important too . we have issue guidance to trust because there be evidence that clinical damage and harm can come with the removal of the use of the term " woman " from literature . I would be happy to write to my hon . friend ' s local trust to point that out . Scope have note that potential change to the work capability assessment might force disabled people into ill - suited employment , and it be worried that huge number of people will end up be force into do exactly that . what step be the Minister take , with her Cabinet colleague , to ensure that disabled people be not force into job that be not suit to they ? the hon . Lady join I yesterday at the disability action plan event , where many stakeholder welcome the change and opportunity in disabled people ' s life . many disabled people want to work , and we at the Department for Work and Pensions will always ensure that we listen to their want and need and that they will never be force into anything that be not suitable for they . at 5 pm today , woman ' s group and other community group in Gosport will be stage a peaceful protest about the Lib Dem council ' s decision to completely end all live CCTV monitoring . they be worried about the impact on people ' s safety . do the Minister agree with they ? it be important that people understand that CCTV and street lighting be important in help woman to feel safe on the street . I fully understand the campaign and I be glad that my hon . friend be support it . we be do everything we can in Government to reduce violence against woman and girl . will the UK Government redouble their effort to ensure that the humanitarian need of woman and girl in Gaza be be address , in line with the UK ' s commitment under the international woman and girl strategy , the woman , peace and security national action plan , and the international development White Paper ? I be work closely with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office on this issue . we be very concerned about the event take place in both Israel and Gaza and we want to see the violence end . the hon . Gentleman will know about all the work we have be do on prevent sexual violence in conflict , for example , and we will continue to do everything we can to minimise any impact on woman and girl . what step be my right hon . friend take with Cabinet colleague to help increase the number of female - lead business ? Female - lead business often face particular challenge , and in the Department for Business and Trade we work with the British Business Bank to ensure that those business continue to have access to finance . we have the investing in Women code and a taskforce for woman - lead entrepreneur . we hope that all these action together will help improve the life of woman in business . will the Minister make a statement about today ' s report by the Patient Safety Commissioner address redress for victim of sodium valproate and mesh ? the hon . Lady will know that the Government commission that report from the Patient Safety Commissioner to look at option for redress , specifically for those affect by sodium valproate , but also for those affect by mesh . the report have be publish only today , so we will look at the detail closely before report back to the House . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 7 February . I know the thought of the House and the country be with the King and his family . we wish his Majesty a speedy recovery and look forward to he resume his public - face duty in due course . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , and I shall have further such meeting later today . I , too , send my good wish to the King . last week , the Foreign Secretary say that , with ally , we will look at the issue of recognise a palestinian state , so that the palestinian people " can see that there be go to be irreversible progress to a two - state solution . " afterwards , it be brief that these word have not be sign off by no . 10 . do the Prime Minister agree with his Foreign Secretary ? our long - stand position have be that we will recognise a palestinian state at a time that be most conducive to the peace process . the most important thing be that we be committed to that two - state solution and be work with our ally to bring it about . People in Northampton South be desperately short of NHS dental provision — indeed , in Duston there be now none at all . so today ' s dentistry recovery plan announcement be hugely welcome , but can the Prime Minister guarantee to my resident that there will be improvement within month , not year ? we be publish the dentistry recovery plan today , and my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will be make a statement shortly . over 1 million more people see an NHS dentist last year than the year before , but we know that there be more to do . that be why the recovery plan will make sure that NHS dental care be fast , simple and fair for patient and staff . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in send his Majesty the King our very good wish for his treatment . across the House , we all look forward to see he back to full health as quickly as possible . this week , the unwavering bravery of Brianna Ghey ' s mother , Esther , have touch we all . as a father , I can not even imagine the pain that she be go through . I be glad that she be with we in the Gallery today . a year ago , the Prime Minister promise to bring down NHS waiting list . isn ' t he glad that he do not bet a grand on it ? at least I stand by my commitment . he be so indecisive that the only bet he would make be an each - way bet . he say he stand by his commitment . he once insist that if he miss his promise , " I ' m the Prime Minister … it ' s on I personally " . today we learn from his own official that he be the blocker to any deal to end the doctor ' strike . every time he be ask , he blame everyone else . what exactly do he mean when he say " it ' s on I personally " if he do not meet his promise ? we be bring down waiting list for the long waiter and make progress . it be a bit rich to hear about promise from someone who have break every single promise he be elect on . I have count almost 30 in the last year : pension , planning , peerage , public sector pay , tuition fee , childcare , second referendum , define a woman — although , in fairness , that be only 99 % of a u - turn . the list go on , but the theme be the same : empty word , broken promise and absolutely no plan . of all the week to say that , when Brianna ' s mother be in this Chamber — shame ! parade as a man of integrity when he have get absolutely no responsibility , it be absolute — [ interruption . ] order . I think member be get carry away . our constituent want to hear the question and they certainly want to hear the answer . they do not want to hear organise barracking , so please , I want no more of it . I think the role of the Prime Minister be to ensure that every single citizen in this country feel safe and respected , and it be a shame that the Prime Minister do not share that view . I welcome the fact that he have finally admit that he have fail on NHS waiting list . I also welcome the fact that he have finally acknowledge the crisis in NHS dentistry . he be call it a " recovery plan " , after 14 year of Tory Government . what exactly do he think NHS dentistry be recover from ? as ever — [ interruption . ] order . I be certainly not have that from the Opposition Front Bench either . please , I want to hear this . I be hope that election fever be not come tomorrow , so let we not behave as though it be . as ever , the right hon . and learn Gentleman conveniently forget the impact of a pandemic on NHS dentistry ; it be specifically because of the close proximity nature of dental provision that it be unable to operate as normal throughout the pandemic — that be a recommendation of the medical and clinical expert . that be why , inevitably , there be a backlog in dental care , with the impact that this have . but that be why , as my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will outline later today for the House , we be put in more funding to provide more nhs provision across the country , on top of plan that will see the number of dental training place increase by 40 % . our plan mean that there will be 2 . 5 million more NHS appointment , which be , in fact , three time more than the Labour party be propose . there be some area in the country where people literally can not have an nhs dentist , and the Prime Minister say that that be down to covid . People be literally pull out their own tooth — [ interruption . ] order . let I just say that I do not need any more from those on the Government Front Bench either . do we understand each other ? People be literally pull out their tooth use plier — an experience that can be compare with extract an answer from the Prime Minister at the Dispatch Box . the truth be that after 14 year of neglect , this " recovery plan " be just a desperate attempt to recover back to square one . if he want to move forward , he should follow labour : scrap the non - dom tax status and use the money to fund 2 million more hospital appointment every year . but the Prime Minister be oddly reluctant to follow we on this . what exactly be so special about this tax avoidance scheme that mean he prioritise it above the NHS ? let we look at that record . in the nhs , we have record funding ; record number of doctor and nurse ; a record number of appointment ; and high cancer survival rate . but what be happen on Labour ' s watch in Wales ? let we have a look at that . a fifth of people in Wales be currently on a waiting list ; the number of wait of 18 month or more be 10 time high than in England ; and people be wait twice as long for an operation . labour ' s failure have send the Welsh NHS back to square one , and we will never let they do that here . when the Prime Minister admit that he have fail on waiting list , I actually think that we might be enter a new era of " integrity , professionalism and accountability " — remember that one ? but just like all the other relaunche , it have prove to be a false dawn . he be still blame everyone else and be still remove from reality . it be very simple : you can either back more NHS appointment or more tax avoidance . we know what side we be on ; why doesn ' t he ? the good way to ensure that we continue to fund the NHS , as we have , be not to make £ 28 billion of unfunded spending commitment . just this morning , independent Treasury official have publish a formal costing of just one part of Labour ' s eco promise , its insulation scheme , and it turn out that it will cost double what Labour have previously claim — it be not the £ 6 billion that Labour account for , but £ 13 billion every single year . it be now crystal clear that Labour have absolutely no plan , but we all know it be go to fund that gap : more taxis on hard - work people . the Prime Minister be Mr 25 Tax rise . he be literally the country ' s expert on put taxis up , and he think he can lecture everyone else on the economy . last week , he and his mp be laugh at someone whose mortgage have go up £ 1 , 000 a month . this week , he casually make a £ 1 , 000 bet in the middle of an interview . last week , he think even raise question about the cost of living be resort to " the politic of envy " . this week , he have finally find the cause he want to rally around : the non - dom status . when he find himself back tax avoidance over NHS appointment , do he start to understand why his own mp be say that he simply do not get what Britain need ? I will take no lecture about get Britain from a man who think it be right to defend terrorist . what we be do be build a bright future for our country : just last week , we expand healthcare in pharmacy ; today , we be expand dental care ; and this week , we be help million with the cost of living and , most importantly , cut national insurance . that be all while the Labour party argue over 28 billion different way to raise people ' s taxis . that be the difference between we : we be deliver a plan , but they can not even agree on one . my constituent and I send our good wish to the King and the royal family . despite the popular narrative , our economy be do well , with an unemployment rate well below the EU average , strong inward investment and record employment . taxis be high than conservative would like , but do my right hon . friend agree that a key reason for this be that we rightly spend £ 400 billion on covid support , include one of most generous furlough scheme , in order to ensure that no one be leave behind , and that it be our intention and instinct to lower taxis , unlike the opposition party ? my hon . friend be right to highlight our record of provide support to the country when it need it , whether it be the NHS , vaccine , furlough during covid or , most recently , help with people ' s energy bill . we be only able to afford that because of the strong management of our economy . that be why we must stick with the plan and not risk go back to square one with the Labour party , which , as we know , have absolutely no plan and will cost everyone in this country with its £ 28 billion of tax rise . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . I begin by express my heartfelt sympathy to Brianna ' s mother , who be in the Public Gallery . I also send my good wish to King Charles for what will hopefully be a quick and full recovery . the public be use to the Tories gambling on the life of other : Boris Johnson do it with public health during the pandemic , and his immediate successor do it with household finance . not to be outdo , on Monday this week the Prime Minister accept a crude bet regard the life of asylum seeker . in do so , he demean they as individual and he degrade the office that he currently hold . will he apologise ? we may have a principled disagreement on this : I believe , and we believe , that if someone come to this country illegally , they should not be able to stay and they should be remove . that be why we be committed to our Rwanda scheme . as ever , the Prime Minister do himself no favour , because the bet to which I refer be worth £ 1 , 000 , and it come just hour before he end cost of live support worth just £ 900 . his justification for do so be that the cost of living crisis be ease . what do he believe leave he look most out of touch with the public : gamble £ 1 , 000 , or believe that the cost of living crisis be get well ? the hon . Gentleman talk about the cost of living , but perhaps he can explain to the scottish people why it be that , while the UK Conservative Government be cut their taxis , the Scottish Government be raise they ? the thought of the people of East Worthing and Shoreham be with his Majesty , too . the Archbishop of Canterbury have admit that , since take office , attendance at the Church of England have drop by 15 % . in the 10 year to covid , the number of baptism in the Church of England have fall from 140 , 000 a year to 87 , 000 , so Christianity in the UK seem to be on the wane , unless , apparently , you be from a muslim country in the middle of an asylum claim . we be now tell that one in seven occupant of the Bibby Stockholm have suddenly become a practise Christian . give that the Church of England have now issue secret guidance to clergy support asylum application for these damascene conversion , to whom be the Church accountable ? be taxpayer be scamme by the Archbishop ? when it come to illegal migrant , we need to have a system whereby , if someone come here illegally , they should not be able to stay . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have ask for more information about the extent to which migrant convert to Christianity be play a role in our asylum system . more generally , under our Illegal Migration Act 2023 , anybody enter the UK illegally will not be grant asylum here . that be why we need to have somewhere to send they and why our Rwanda scheme be so important . the Labour party have block these measure every single step of the way , because it do not have a plan and it will not keep Britain safe . may I , on behalf of my party , extend our good wish to his Majesty the King for a full recovery ? I thank the Prime Minister for his dedication and leadership in help we to restore our place in the United Kingdom and its internal market and to revive our political institution at Stormont . the Union be more secure as a result of our combine endeavour and , together , we have greatly enhance the potential to build a strong and prosperous economy that will help to cement our peace in Northern Ireland . secure peace in an unstable world be vital for all of we , so will the Prime Minister examine the finding of a recent report by Policy Exchange that call for Northern Ireland to play an even great role in the defence of our nation ? may I start by thank and pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his own leadership over the past few month ? he and I agree that the Union be strong for the return of devolution and the work that we have do . I would be delighted to examine the finding of the report , and I have see , with my own visit , the vital role that Northern Ireland be play through the location of firm such as Thales and Harland & Wolff . however , as he will know , I be delighted that , in last week ' s Command Paper , we specifically commit to examine how we can far bolster Northern Ireland ' s share of the UK defence sector , because it be another essential pillar of our precious economic Union . Mr Speaker , do the Prime Minister know where the good site for large - scale , new nuclear in the UK be ? [ " Wylfa ! " ] will he commit to buy the Wylfa site — now the only gigawatt site in Wales — this year and ensure that it be progress as soon as possible to meet our net zero and energy security need , and give an enormous boost to the Ynys M ô n and north Wales economy ? as ever , my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for Wylfa and the nuclear industry . I can confirm to she that Wylfa be a candidate for the new nuclear site and one of a number of potential site that could host civil nuclear project . no decision have be take at present , but great British Nuclear be work with the Government to support access . we be also develop a new national policy statement , provide the planning framework for new nuclear power , and we very much welcome she , and other , contribution to that consultation . last year , the Prime Minister and other senior Ministers be give the conclusion of a Government audit of research programme at UK university with link to the chinese state . the audit flag up hundred of programme as be at high risk of potentially be use by the Chinese Communist party for military use , and other application in strategic and sensitive area as be of high interest to an authoritarian regime such as China . a small proportion be judge to be extremely high risk . despite that , the Government have elect to do nothing about it . will the Prime Minister confirm his personal knowledge of that report and explain to the House why no action be to be take and why these programme must be continue unimpeded ? we will continue to take a robust and proactive approach towards our relationship with China , root in the UK ' s national interest and value . the National Security Act 2023 bring together vital new measure to protect our national security . that include create a foreign influence registration scheme through the Act specifically to tackle covert influence in the UK . we will continue to take all possible power to keep the country safe . two remarkably talented and enthusiastic individual from Kettering , Beccy Hurrell and Lindsey Atkins , have put together a really ambitious £ 2 million bid to repurpose the redundant Gala Bingo hall in Kettering high street into a community art , music , business and family hub , which would be simply transformative for Kettering town centre . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister please be kind enough to facilitate a meeting for we with the relevant culture and levelling - up Ministers so that we can explore how a combined community ownership fund and cultural development fund bid might get we across the line ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this exciting initiative , and commend Beccy and Lindsey for their campaigning . he will know that our £ 150 million community ownership fund be there specifically to help to safeguard small but much - love local asset . our cultural development fund , which he mention , be there to support further cultural project as well . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss the plan far , and wish he and his constituent all the good with this redevelopment project . datum reveal by the Centre for Cities show that , after 14 year of Tory rule , town and city in every corner of our country have be level down , leave behind , and leave out of pocket . on average , people be over £ 10 , 000 a year worse off because the Prime Minister ' s party have fail on growth . when will he take responsibility for break Britain ? in fact , what we be see be record investment in our town across the UK , many of which be neglect by the Labour party for decade . if we really care about level up , we need to avoid saddle hard - work Britons with high taxis , which be exactly what labour ' s £ 28 billion green spending spree would do . for 27 year , constituent across the Vale of Glamorgan and the whole of Wales sadly have have to wait long to see a doctor , long for an ambulance , long at A & e , and long for an operation than patient in England . there be 24 , 785 patient in Wales wait long than two year for an operation . the number in England be 227 . do my right hon . friend agree that Aneurin Bevan will be turn in his grave over the fact that we can not trust Labour with the NHS ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . here in England we have a plan when it come to education , where we be march up the league table , and we have virtually eliminate the long waiting time , but in Labour - run Wales , as he say , education rate be fall and waiting list over 18 month be more than 10 time high than in England . it be crystal clear that we should stick to our plan for a bright future and not go back to square one with Labour . accord to opendemocracy this week , since 1999 at least 391 people have die at our border . that be a rate of more than one man or woman per month for 25 year . on top of that , there be the financial cost . the deadly and fail border regime as well as the Prime Minister ' s plan for Rwanda be estimate to have cost at least £ 800 million since 2014 . will he now show that he understand that the people whose life he be make sick bet on be human being , and provide they with safe route to the UK in order to seek asylum , instead of more failed and extreme form of deterrence ? it be in fact criminal gang that be exploit vulnerable people and lead many of they to lose their life as they make these dangerous crossing . conservative Members think that that be wrong , and we want to do something about it , which be why we need to get a deterrent up and run , and be able to send people to Rwanda . it be the hon . Gentleman ' s party that oppose that , so the question for Labour Members be why they remain on the side of the criminal people smuggler . February mark Emotional Health , boost your Self Esteem and Children ' s Mental Health Month . in recent year , about 6 , 500 people have die in the UK each year due to suicide . in 2021 , I be nearly one of they . luckily my attempt fail , I be find by family member quickly , I receive amazing care at St Helier and Springfield Hospitals , I do not do any permanent damage and I be well look after by the NHS in the month that follow . I want to say thank you to everyone who save I and sorry to my family and love one , whom I put through such an awful ordeal . in that moment , I feel alone and scare , like there be no way out , and that the world would be well off without I in it . but I do not recognise that man any more . I know that nothing be ever really worth that , that help really be out there — and I be pretty awesome . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] do the Prime Minister agree that one death by suicide be one too many , and will he send a message from the Dispatch Box today that , whatever you be go through , you be not alone , help be out there and well day lie ahead ? I know the whole House will join I in commend my hon . friend for his bravery in share his story and I can absolutely assure he that we take this issue incredibly seriously . the new suicide prevention strategy ensure that we will have the action in place to reduce suicide over the next year , because we absolutely recognise the impact that it have on people and their family , and we should do everything we can to prevent that from happen . may I take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister if he will consider apologise to Brianna Ghey ' s mother for his insensitive comment ? turn to my question , the independent report into Teesworks release last Monday throw up more question than it answer . it be vital that we now have a National Audit Office investigation . the report be scathing and say that there be insufficient transparency to offer evidence of value for money . should the Government not lead by example , and will the Prime Minister finally release detail of his conversation surround Teesworks , as he be ask to do twice last year ? I think the hon . Lady be talk about the report on Teesworks , as far as I can see . what that report note be that the pace and scope of the regeneration have have a wide - reach positive impact on the local economy — and of course it be an independent external report . it make it clear that there be no evidence of corruption or illegality and the Government will of course respond to the recommendation in the report as soon as possible . I give my heartfelt thank to the Prime Minster for his support for our Melton , Harborough and Stamford village follow the recent devastating flooding . ten of home , farm and business in Rutland be also devastate , but our county be in effect exclude from ever receive support in the future due to the arbitrary floor currently in place . flood support should be base on the most affected or a percentage of population , but Rutland must have 1 , 000 time more flooding than next - door Lincolnshire for we ever to access support . will my right hon . friend please give a meeting to I and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) to discuss this important issue ? I extend my sympathy to all those impact by the recent storm and flooding . we be invest record sum in flood defence across England and a recovery support framework be in place for family and business in every area that have experience exceptional flooding . I know that my hon . friend be in touch with Ministers in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities about how those scheme affect her constituency , but I will ensure that she get the correspondence and meeting that she need to deliver for her local community . two week ago , I challenge the Prime Minister on his Government ' s broken promise on build new hospital by 2030 , include in my own area . now it seem the Government be downgrade exist hospital too . child and parent in Eastbourne will be force to travel for mile if the propose downgrade of the hospital ' s paediatric service go ahead . campaigner have ask the Government to call in this disastrous plan , so will the Prime Minister agree ? actually , we be invest record sum in improve hospital infrastructure across the country . in Eastbourne in particular , spade be already in the ground to deliver an elective surgical hub . I know that there be local liberal Democrat scaremongere about the future of service , but the local Conservative MP be do a fantastic job , engage with her community and work with local health official . it be my huge pleasure to host the aerospace defence and security industry apprenticeship event in Parliament yesterday , welcome two apprentice from Collins Aerospace in Wolverhampton . will the Prime Minister join I , in National Apprenticeship Week , in celebrate the opportunity that apprenticeship can provide in the defence industry , as well as in our armed force , which be all in the top 10 apprenticeship provider ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of our apprenticeship provision , which be provide young people with opportunity across the country , particularly in the defence and aerospace sector , as she say . those plan be in stark contrast to those of the Labour party , which have cave in to big business and be now propose to halve the amount of apprenticeship funding and the number of apprenticeship . if Grangemouth refinery close , Scotland will be the only major oil - produce nation without a refinery capacity . at a time of energy insecurity , be it not economic madness to allow a profitable plant to close , and be it not environmental madness to tranship oil for refining and distribution across the increasingly dangerous high sea ? give the billion that the Prime Minister have receive and will continue to receive from North sea oil , will he ensure that Scotland retain a refinery capacity for Scotland ' s oil ? the future of Grangemouth refinery be obviously a commercial decision for its owner , but I be tell that the site will remain operate as a refinery until at least May 2025 . in the meantime , the UK and Scottish Governments be work together to seek assurance from Grangemouth about how it be support employee . we remain confident in our fuel supply . on energy security , which the hon . Gentleman mention , this Government be unambiguously back the North sea oil and gas sector because that be how we support energy security in this country , attract investment and create job , particularly in Scotland . I be very proud that it be a Conservative Government who appoint the Patient Safety Commissioner , and that we commission the Hughes report on medical device and medicine , which be publish this morning . will my right hon . Friend also make I proud by address the point that the commissioner have raise and bring forward a redress scheme in a timely manner ? I be grateful to the Patient Safety Commissioner and her team for their work on this important issue — one that I know my right hon . friend have speak about in the past . of course , first and foremost , our sympathy remain with those affect by sodium valproate . we be focus on improve the system and how it listen to patient , and it be right that the Government carefully consider the report ' s recommendation . the Department of Health and Social Care will respond to the report in due course , and the Health Secretary will keep the House update on a regular basis . many of my constituent , such as local mum Jessica , have contact I about special educational need and disability support . Jessica ' s son have wait year for an autism diagnosis , and he be not expect to have an education , health and care plan in place by the time he go to secondary school . will the Prime Minister confirm that student who need an EHCP will get one so that they can thrive in school ? of course , we want to see every child thrive at school , which be why we have triple the amount go into special educational need for capital place and put more money into support echp . I be sorry to hear about the case that the hon . Lady mention . I will ensure that we continue to look at this matter in particular , because , as she say , we want every child to thrive at school . I put on the record my good wish to his Majesty the King and to her Royal Highness the Princess of Wales . build on the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , I know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be exceptionally pleased about the Hughes report , which have be publish today . a huge amount of work have be do by member from across the Chamber , include the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) and for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North . may I press my right hon . friend the Prime Minister on the fact that ten of thousand of woman and child have suffer immensely since the 1970 , with Government after Government do nothing about it ? I be proud that this Government have do something about it , but I urge he , in the strong term , to talk to the Chancellor to ensure that we can address the issue raise in the Hughes report at the Budget . I thank my right hon . friend and colleague from all part of the House for their campaigning over many year on this issue . as I say , it be right not only that we extend our sympathy to those affect , but that we carefully consider the recommendation from the Patient Safety Commissioner ' s report . I can assure my right hon . friend that we will do that with all due haste , and I know that the Health Secretary will keep the House update . why do the Prime Minister downgrade the role of Minister for disabled People ? what message do he think that send to disabled people , and will he commit to reconsider that move and ensure that the role be hold by a Minister of State ? if not , will he agree to meet with I and disabled people ' s organisation to explain his reasoning ? actually , the Minister for Disabled People , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , be go to do a fantastic job , because she care passionately about this issue . this Government have a record to be proud of , whether that be support many more of those with disability into work and ensure they can live independently , or make sure that child with complex disability have access to more change place across the country . those be the value of this Conservative Government . I would also like to say to Brianna Ghey ' s mum , who be here , that as I say early this week , what happen be an unspeakable and shocking tragedy . in the face of that , for her mother to demonstrate the compassion and empathy that she do last weekend demonstrate the very good of humanity in the face of see the very bad of humanity . she deserve all our admiration and praise for that . NHS Dentistry : Recovery and Reform with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement on our plan to recover and reform NHS dentistry . first , though , on behalf of the entire House and my Department , I send our very good wish to his Majesty the King . his decision to share his diagnosis will be welcome by anyone whose life have be touch by cancer , and I know that we be all very much look forward to see he make a speedy recovery and resume his public duty . thank to a once - in - a - generation pandemic , 7 million patient across England do not come forward for appointment with NHS dentist between 2020 and 2022 . since then , we have take decisive action to recover service : we have make reform to the dental contract , so that practice be pay more fairly for care for NHS patient with more complex need ; and we have make sure that dentist update the NHS website regularly so that the public know that they be take on new patient . that have deliver result , with more than 1 million more people see an NHS dentist last year than in the year before . however , we know that too many , particularly those live in rural or coastal community , be still struggle to find appointment . this recovery plan will put that right by make NHS dental care fast , simple , and fair for patient and staff . it be build on three key pillar , which I will address in turn . first , we will help anyone who need to see an NHS dentist to do so , wherever they live and whatever their background . to do this , we must incentivise dentist across the country to care for more NHS patient . that be why I be delighted to tell the House that for the come year , we be offer dentist two new payment on top of their usual payment for care — £ 15 for every check - up they perform on NHS patient who have not be see over the past two year , and £ 50 for every new NHS patient they treat who have not be see over the same period — because we know that patient who do not have a relationship with a dentist find it hard to get care . that be not a long - term ambition : our new patient premium will be available from next month . we be also increase the minimum payment that dentist receive for deliver NHS treatment , which will support practice with the low unit of dental activity rate to provide more nhs care . however , we know that in many of our rural , remote and isolated community , dentist themselves be in short supply . that be why start this year , up to 240 dentist will receive golden hello payment worth up to £ 20 , 000 when they commit themselves to work in one of those area for at least three year . these dentist will give patient the care they need fast , make dental provision fair and tackle health inequality . we be also deliver dentistry to our most remote region without delay . this year , we will deploy dental van to more isolated , rural and coastal area . staff by NHS dentist , they will offer check - up and simple treatment such as filling . this model have be a try and test success across many region . for example , last year in Cornwall , a mobile van visit five harbour , treat more than 100 fisherman and their family . we will be roll out up to 15 van across Devon , Gloucestershire , Somerset , Norfolk , Suffolk , Lincolnshire , Cambridgeshire , Dorset , Cornwall , North Yorkshire and Northamptonshire . this move have be welcome by Healthwatch , the Nuffield Trust and the College of General Dentistry . we will let patient know when van will be in their area , so they can get the care they need fast . these reform will empower nhs dentist to treat more than 1 million people and deliver 2 . 5 million more appointment . as the chief executive of National Voices , a group of major health and care charity , say : " this extra money … should help thousand of people who have be unable to see a dentist in the last two year to get the care they need . " these reform be just the beginning . this recovery plan will also drive forward reform to make NHS dentistry sustainable for our child and our grandchild . that bring I to the second pillar : grow and upskille our workforce for the long term . our long - term workforce plan , the first in NHS history , give we strong foundation on which to build . by 2031 , training place for dentist will increase by 40 % — forty per cent — and place for dental hygienist and therapist , who can perform simple task such as filling , will also rise by 40 % . More dentist and more dental therapist will mean more care for NHS patient . I be delighted to tell the House today that we be go far in three key way . first , we will consult on a tie - in to NHS work for dentistry graduate , because right now too many be choose to deliver private work over valuable NHS care . More than 35 , 000 dentist in England be register with the General Dental Council , but last year almost a third work exclusively in the private sector . train these dentist be a significant investment for taxpayer , and they rightly expect it to result in the strong possible NHS care . that be why , this spring , we will launch a consultation on a tie - in for graduate dentist and how this could deliver more NHS care and well value for taxpayer . secondly , we will take full advantage of our dental professional ' skill . today , even though they have the right training , without write direction from a dentist dental therapist can not do thing such as administer antibiotic . this year , we will change this , make life simple for dentist and make care fast for patient . as the president of the College of General Dentistry have say , the " use of the full range of skill of all team member will enable the delivery of more care and make NHS dentistry more attractive to dental professional . " thirdly , we will recruit more international dentist to the NHS . we have a plan to do this by work with the General Dental Council to get more international dentist take exam and to get they on to the register soon , and to explore the creation of a new provisional registration status so that , under the supervision of a dentist who be already on the register , highly skilled international dentist can start treat patient soon , rather than work as hygienist while they be wait to join the register . I turn now to our plan ' s third pillar , which be prioritise prevention and give child a healthy smile for life . this begin by support parent to give their child the good possible start . that be why family hub up and down the country will offer parent - to - be expert advice on look after their baby ' s tooth and gum . as those baby grow up , we will support parent and nursery in make sure that before every child start primary school , brush their tooth be part of their routine . the evidence be clear : the early good habit be build , the long they will last . see a dentist regularly be vital for child ' s health , but since the pandemic , too many have be unable to do that . that be why this year we be take care directly to child . we will deploy mobile dental team to school in area with a shortage of NHS dentist . they will apply a preventive fluoride varnish to more than 165 , 000 reception - age child ' s tooth , strengthen they early and prevent decay . our smile for Life programme have already be endorse by the College of General Dentistry . six million people in England already benefit from water fluoridation . in order to go far in protect child ' s tooth , we will consult on strengthen more of our country ' s water with fluoride . again , the evidence be clear : in some of the most deprived part of England , enhance fluoride level could reduce by up to 56 % the number of tooth that be extract because of decay . that be why , through the Health and Care Act 2022 , we have make it simple to add fluoride to more of our water supply . as a first step , this year we will launch a consultation on expand water fluoridation across the north - east — an expansion that would give 1 . 6 million more people access to water that strengthen their tooth , prevent tooth decay and tackle inequality . this be our Government ' s plan to recover and reform dental care : dental training place up by 40 % ; 2 . 5 million more appointment ; dental van treat more patient ; more dentist in remote area ; more dentist take on NHS patient ; well support for family and well care for child ; patient access up and inequity come down . it will make life simple for staff , and treatment fast and fairer for patient and staff . we have take the difficult decision , and we have now deliver a long - term plan to make dental care fast , simple , and fairer for people across the country . we be go to get on with the job and put our plan into action , and I commend this statement to the House . I wholeheartedly associate myself and my party with the Secretary of State ' s remark on send our good wish to his Majesty the King . have go through a cancer diagnosis myself , I particularly send good wish to his family , for whom a diagnosis be often more difficult than for the person receive it . also in the generous spirit in which we have begin , may I thank the Health and Social Care Secretary for accidentally e - mail I her entire plan yesterday ? that go above and beyond the courtesy that we normally expect . I look forward to receive her party ' s election manifesto any day now — but of course we will have to write our first to give her party some inspiration . after 14 year of Conservative Government , NHS dentistry be in decay . eight in 10 dentist be not take on new patient , and in the south - west of England the figure be 99 % . one in 10 people have be force to attempt DIY dentistry — dickensian condition ! — because they can not see an NHS dentist , and they can not afford to go private . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Baker , I be sorry , but I don ' t want any more heckling from you ; you do a little bit early . I want everybody to listen to the Secretary of State , and I expect they to do the same for the shadow Secretary of State . Don ' t worry , Mr Speaker : I will come back to the parliamentary Private Secretary shortly . Tooth decay be the no . 1 reason for child age six to 10 be admit to hospital . unbelievably , there have be report of ukrainian refugee book dentist appointment back home and return for treatment , because it be easy to fly to a war - tear country than it be to see an NHS dentist in England . well , at least one government policy be get flight off the ground — and it be certainly not the Government ' s Rwanda scheme failure . let we look at the human consequence of this conservative tragedy . labour ' s candidate in Great Yarmouth , Keir Cozens , tell I about Jeanette , a young woman in her 30 who have struggle with gum and mouth problem all her life . she use to be able to get treatment ; now she can not find an NHS dentist in all of Norfolk to take she . she can not afford to go private . it hurt to smile , it hurt to laugh , and the pain be so great that Jeanette do not go out anymore . just this week , she resort to try to remove her tooth herself . that be not right for anyone of any age , but Jeanette should be in the prime of her life . will the Secretary of State apologise to Jeanette and the million like she for what the Conservatives have do to NHS dentistry ? after 14 year of neglect , cut and incompetence , the Government have today announce a policy of more appointment , recruiting dentist to the area most in need and toothbrushing for child . it sound awfully familiar . they be adopt much of Labour ' s rescue plan for dentistry . do that not show that the Conservatives be out of idea of their own , and be look to Labour to fix the mess they have make ? I say : next time Conservative Ministers say that Labour do not have a plan , or that Labour ' s plan be not credible , don ' t believe a word of it . there be some difference between our two party ' approach . labour be pledge an extra 700 , 000 urgent and emergency appointment , which be additional to the appointment announce today . can the Health Secretary confirm that the Government ' s plan do not provide any additional emergency support ? labour propose supervise early - year toothbrushing , and conservative mp accuse it of be " nanny state " . do the Health Secretary stand by that label , or do she now support child under five be support in brush their tooth ? the key difference be that we recognise that our plan be a rescue plan , and that to put NHS dentistry back on its foot , immediate reform of the dental contract be need . without that , the Government ' s plan be doom to fail . do not just take my word for it ; the British Dental Association have say that the plan will not stop the exodus of dentist from the NHS , will not provide a dentist for every patient who need one , and will not put an end to this crisis . I come to the parliamentary Private Secretary , the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) , and the miserable script that the whip be spread out on the table . if labour ' s contract be to blame , why have the Government not reform it in 14 year , and why be they not reform it now ? in 2010 , the Conservatives promise in their election manifesto to reform the dental contract . they be bring back not just Lord Cameron , but his broken promise . People have be desperately try to get dental care for year , but there be nothing from the conservative party . now that we be in an election year , the Conservatives be try to kick the can down the road , and be scramble for a plan . they only discover their heart when they fear in their heart for their political future , and the consequence have be see : queue around the block in Bristol . finally , the Secretary of State be promise reform after 2025 and after the next general election . who be she try to kid ? after 2025 , the Conservatives will be go , and if they be not , NHS dentistry will be . how many more chance do they expect ? how many more break promise will there be ? we have 2010 , 2015 , 2017 and 2019 . their time be up , and it be time for Labour to deliver the change that this country need . I try to help the hon . gentleman by give he an advance copy of my speech yesterday , yet that be his speech . this Government be focus on deliver for patient . perhaps I can help he understand the difference between the Opposition ' s proposal and the Government ' s fully fund dental recovery plan . the Opposition ' s ambition reach only as far as 700 , 000 more appointment . our plan will provide more than three time that number of appointment across the country — that is 2 . 5 million , to help he with his math . we be offer golden hello to 240 dentist who will work in hard - to - reach and under - serve area ; their proposal cover only 200 . they have no plan for training more dentist ; we set out in the long - term workforce plan last year , and again in the dental recovery plan , that we will increase training place for dentist by 40 % by 2031 . then we have the centrepiece of the Opposition ' s proposal : make teacher swap their textbook for toothbrush — an idea that be hate by teacher and that patronise parent . we believe that most parent do a great job of look after their child . I know that the Labour party do not agree with that ; the hon . Gentleman call our child short and fat on a medium round . we believe that most parent do a great job , and that be why we support pregnant mum - to - be , and support parent in family hub and nursery . we will not wait until reception class , by which time child have already get their tooth . I want to dwell on the experience of anybody live under Labour in labour - run Wales . health service in Wales be devolve , and the Leader of the Opposition have call Wales " the blueprint " for how the opposition will run our health system . Welsh Labour have the high proportion of NHS dental practice not accept new adult patient , and the joint high proportion of those not accept new child patient . in Wales , 93 % of NHS dental practice be not accept new adult patient . that be a high figure than for any other nation in the UK . some 86 % of practice there be not accept new child patient , which be the joint high figure with Northern Ireland . our plan be fully fund , but how will labour pay for its plan ? by use the magical money tree . the list of policy fund by the non - dom policy be as long as my arm . in 2022 , it promise to fund a workforce plan . last September , it become breakfast club meal . by October , it morph into 2 million appointment and scan equipment . by Christmas , it be fund a dentistry plan . it be the same old labour : it have no plan . I call the Father of the House . the House enjoy the word of the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , although I be not sure how many he write himself ; some may have seem rather familiar to anyone who read Matthew Parris this morning on go to Ukraine to have a filling fix . in West Sussex , in Worthing and Arun , we want the same situation find in part of London , where dentist have a sign say , " new NHS patient welcome " . have the Secretary of State be work with the British Dental Association and the General Dental Council to bring forward registration , to get incentive right , and to make sure that dentist be no long tell , " you can ' t serve any more patient because you will go above your limit " ? can she confirm that we be take limit off , so that dentist , especially the young one , can do as much work as they can , and can help as many patient as possible , so that we can get back to the situation that we be in before Labour change the rule about 20 year ago ? we have focus this plan on introduce the new patient premium — a bonus for new patient . have discuss this carefully with professional , we think that be one way that we can incentivise people into NHS practice . dentist can already work up to 104 % of the contract . many do that , but some sadly do not , so we be try to encourage those dentist who already have NHS contract to go the extra mile and use the full slot available to they . the Health and Social Care Committee take month gather evidence and put together a recovery plan , which the Government should have adopt . dentist want that plan put in place . central to it be reform of the NHS dental contract . however , the Secretary of State have completely fail to even mention reform of that contract . as a result , dentistry in my constituency in York , where constituent be wait seven year to see a dentist , will not have the recovery that she talk about . why do she not adopt our plan ? I hope the hon . Lady will , as usual , be the help that I expect she to be to her constituent in publicise this plan . we be get graphic and information out to all member of Parliament , so that they can help their constituent understand what will be available in their area , because each and every one of we want the very good for our constituent . she will be interested in the new patient premium , which be encourage dentist back into NHS practice , or into NHS practice for the first time , and in the increase price for unit of dental activity . reform of the dental contract be part of our agenda , but we realise that we need to give immediate help to community such as hers . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the plan . recovery and reform be right , and the Select Committee will study the plan carefully . the dental Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , have already be invite to come before we , so that we can talk it through with she to see whether it reflect our aforementioned report on the subject . the golden hello , the toothbrushing for pre - schooler — as long as the workforce can handle it — and the mobile van be good , but even a day long of a contract focus on unit of dental activity be a problem . can the Secretary of State say how she plan to entice professional into return to NHS dentistry ? so many have leave , and that be key . very much so , and that will be primarily through the patient premium , which will mean that from next month dentist will be able to turn their sign from " closed " to " open " for NHS patient . we want to use lever that could be deploy immediately in order to help our constituent . it be estimate that more than 12 million people be wait for dental treatment , but the Government ' s announcement say that it will help just 1 million . the Government ' s underspend last year be £ 400 million , and it be expect to be the same this year , but only £ 200 million have be announce . this plan be a drop in the ocean . in St Albans , my dentist be desperate to provide NHS care , and my constituent be desperate to see a dentist . at the heart of the problem be the broken contract . will the Government take up the Liberal Democrats ’ plan to reform the contract and provide guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everybody need urgent and emergency care ? I heartily recommend the recovery plan to the hon . Lady , because it offer 2 . 5 million more appointment and have a long - term ambition for the prevention of tooth decay in child . in addition , it have that long - turn vision about increase training place for our dental professional by 40 % by 2031 . as you be aware , Mr Speaker , I have a declare interest in this particular topic . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be aware , dentistry in England be a seller ' s market . it be estimate that there be 5 , 000 dentist vacancy in England . when I come here in the early ' 70 with my dental degree , like very many colleague from Australia , New Zealand and so on , I present at the General Dental Council , who say " welcome " and stamp my hand , and I go off and work on the national health service the next day . now , and for decade , the General Dental Council have require graduate from world - class dental school — every bit as good as the one we have here — to wait , to pay and to sit what be call an overseas registration exam . currently , the waiting list for the exam be 2 , 000 overseas dental graduate , many of whom be every bit as good as those we produce in this country . the GDC could change that overnight by accept graduate automatically from know and trust international school . will my right hon . friend please have a small chat with the chairman of the General Dental Council ? I thank my hon . friend and recognise the enormous expertise he bring to the Chamber on this matter . he know — he have genuinely talk to I about this on many occasion — the important role that the General Dental Council play to ensure that we get international dentist register as quickly as possible . I very much look forward to discuss that with the GDC so that we can get more international dentist on to our register and work in our practice . I welcome much in the plan , which mirror many of my idea over the year , and indeed much in Labour ' s plan . however , on access , the Government claim that the recovery plan will deliver care for up to 2 . 5 million people , but government datum show that 12 million people in England have unmet dentistry need , which leave about 9 . 5 million people without an NHS dentist . that include my constituent Beverley Kitson , who have osteoporosis and take alendronic acid as treatment . the drug have damage her tooth , and she now require a check - up every three month after four of her tooth have decay to such an extent that they need to be extract . Beverley have be with the same dental practice for 50 year , but she have just be tell that it be go fully private , leave she without an NHS dentist . will the Secretary of State guarantee Beverley that she will be able to access an NHS dentist under these plan ? we have very much try to ensure that dentist who already hold NHS contract will keep they and keep work they . that be why we have fall upon the new patient premium to make it more in their financial interest to take on new patient . I appreciate the hon . Lady ' s point about retention , which , again , we be look to address through the increase in the UDA . but we all acknowledge that dentist be independent contractor , so we must ask they — and particularly those who be new dental graduate — to do their bit and help our NHS out . a number of NHS dentist across Erewash have recently retire , leave a cohort of my constituent without access to NHS dentistry . unfortunately , practice be find it really difficult to recruit replacement for the retiree . how will the plan help speed up that recruitment so that my constituent be not without NHS dentistry for much long ? may I thank my hon . friend for all the work she do in the Department and have do on this subject ? we be take a long - term view with training dentist . as I say , last year , through the long - term workforce plan , we set out an ambition to train up to 40 % more dentist by 2031 . as we also begin the consultation on a tie - in with those graduate , we be confident that we will see a great supply of dentist to our NHS service . the £ 200 million pledge today be less than half last year ' s record - break underspend . the plan say that any underspend will be ringfence for dentistry . that be promise by a Minister last year , but it do not happen because integrate care board be use that underspend . why should the 73 % of dentist in the west midland who can not and be not accept any new patient believe it will be any different this year ? the hon . Lady alight on an important fact that be sometimes lose in this debate : although an NHS dentist may have an NHS contract , they may not work the whole of that contract . some nhs dentist very much do so ; other work a fraction of it . we be try to encourage dentist who do not use their full contract to do so , because that in itself will bring in more patient . we be confident that alongside the new patient premium , that will help constituent such as her to get the treatment they need . Wokingham have a fast - grow population base on build a lot of new home . so as the Secretary of State roll out her new plan , will she also ensure that there be incentive to provide dental service on the NHS in area where a population be move in and need they ? my right hon . friend raise an interesting point . indeed , that be exactly the sort of discussion I be have with my right hon . friend the Levelling up Secretary , because I be really interested in have that connected and join - up approach between planning and health . I think it could bring dividend for we all . I do not believe that what the Secretary of State have describe will deal with the complexity of dental problem out there . I have a constituent who be refer to the Manchester Dental Hospital for a possible abscess and be tell that even an urgent referral would take a month . in fact , the dental hospital do not get back to she for five month after the referral ; it offer she a telephone consultation . the amount of pain and infection mean that she have to seek private treatment at a cost of £ 4 , 000 , but many can not afford that , include the young man wheel into Royal Bolton Hospital in great pain , leak blood on the floor after try to remove a painful tooth with plier . what do the Health Secretary say to patient who have long - stand and complex dental problem and be pay the price by wait in pain , pay for private treatment or try to remove their own tooth ? I take that constituency case very seriously . I be really keen to urge the hon . Lady that if a constituent contact she in future with that level of discomfort and pain , she should advise that constituent to contact 111 and , if necessary , go to accident and emergency — [ interruption . ] Labour member be shake their head , but what she have just describe be a serious situation . that constituent need medical attention , and the NHS be there , ready and willing to help . that be the advice that she should be give her constituent , and I hope that she take it as seriously as I do . [ interruption . ] order . the Secretary of State be give an answer to a question . we do not need all this shouting . People might not agree with the answer , but you have to listen to the answer . in congratulate my right hon . friend — my personal friend — on this welcome , excellent statement , may I ask she to forgive the ferocity with which my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and I make the case for NHS dentistry when we meet she recently ? in that spirit , will she ensure that some of these new dentist come to rural Lincolnshire , where we desperately need good dental care ? she have today irrigate the dental desert . I give my very sincere thank to my right hon . friend . the House can imagine the advocacy I have receive from both he and my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . on reach rural and coastal area , as a proud Lincolnshire MP myself I want to bring about a set of plan that will address those underserved area . I be delighted that the plan meet with my right hon . friend ' s approval . the Secretary of State will be aware that the NHS dentistry crisis have be 14 year in the making . she will also be aware that it be impossible for anybody in Knowsley today to sign up with an NHS dentist . the measure the Secretary of State have describe may , over time , help to meet the problem , but what advice would she give today to my constituent who can not get an nhs dentist ? the advice and guidance to dentist will be go out today , while the new patient premium that I have tell the House about will come in from March — it be week away . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for an excellent statement and an excellent plan . it be exactly what patient in Suffolk have be wait to hear — the rural payment , the bonus there and the mobile service . I be conscious that many dentist have choose not to have more patient , and they might blame the contract — this , that or the other . that be why I welcome her plan about potentially tie in graduate to the NHS . my hon . friend the Member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) have already refer to the General Dental Council , which , in my view , have not take full advantage of the regulation that come into force last March . will the Secretary of State also look at the NHS ' s own rule that far restrict the rapid supply of dentist into the NHS for our constituent ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the work she do on dentistry in the Department . I be conscious that many people have contribute to this plan ; I be grateful to she and other . again , I hear the observation on the General Dental Council , and will ensure that the GDC hear they as well . that be a fair challenge to the NHS . colleague will see that the plan be co - sign by NHS England , which share our ambition to deliver those 2 . 5 million more appointment and set up the future of NHS dentistry for our country . today ' s statement by the Health Secretary will have be listen to with great interest by my constituent in Edinburgh West , who share a lot of the same concern , face the same difficulty get NHS dental treatment and will be look for the same sort of solution as constituent in England . could the Secretary of State clarify for I , and for all those who come to I , whether there will be Barnett consequential ? if there be , will she impress upon the Scottish Government the need to ringfence the money and actually invest it in dental service ? if not , would she be willing to share with the Scottish Government how she be approach the problem in the hope that they might actually respond and do something ? I hear the frustration in the hon . Lady ' s question . this be a devolved area — as it be in Wales — and be therefore a matter for the Scottish National party . I assume the hon . Lady will continue her usual advocacy on behalf of her constituent to ensure that the SNP look at what be happen in England and try to do well for Scotland . I really welcome this plan ; I welcome the extra £ 200 million , the new patient bonus , the measure to get dentist into area that do not have they and the minimum UDA . these be all good thing that will help people in Harborough , Oadby and Wigston to get a dentist . can I ask the Secretary of State to press on with two thing ? the first be the move to a proper national funding formula . dentistry be the only part of the NHS without a funding formula , which disadvantage shire and coastal area with old population . the second be the next round of contract reform — the move to band 2b be work , and dentist be use it , but there be patient with complex case for whom a capitation - like payment would be much well , as the British Dental Association point out . I encourage the Secretary of State to start work on that difficult group so that we can get extra help for they too . I must thank my hon . friend for all his work . I know how much how much effort and commitment he have put into these plan , and it show the genuine — [ interruption . ] sorry ; the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) be be a little ungracious . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) have be part of the united work across Government to deliver these plan . I very much take on board his recommendation and encouragement . as I say , we see this plan as deliver 2 . 5 million more appointment for our constituent , but of course we want to look to the long term as well . be the Secretary of State aware that Rip Van Winkle fall asleep for 20 year ? this Conservative Government have be asleep for even long than that , as far as dentistry be concern . will the Secretary of State now wake up and talk to real working dentist , such as Phil Lucitt — one of my excellent nhs dentist in Huddersfield , who be in the Gallery with his wife today — and get something do about this crisis ? it be a crisis in Huddersfield , as in every town in this country , such as Bristol , as we hear yesterday . People be in pain , people be suffer , and for 14 year her Government have do little about it . I must admit that I do not know quite where that question be go , but I think the hon . Gentleman be urge I to speak to dentist . I be delighted to reassure he that my ministerial official and I do of course speak to dentist . in fact , only today I be at a practice in the heart of Westminster , speak to a dental manager who welcome this plan . I will veer away and resist the temptation to comment on Rip Van Winkle . I welcome this dental recovery plan , which will help to deliver dentistry in Darlington . can my right hon . friend the Secretary of State provide I with advice on what more I can do to get my integrate care board to get on with the commissioning at Firthmoor community centre , which lose its dentistry practice 10 month ago ? in look to expand the number of dental training place , I urge the Secretary of State to look at Teesside University , which have ambition to build on its exist dental technology provision and train the Tees Valley dentist of tomorrow . thank to the work of my hon . friend and other , Tees Valley be a powerhouse of growth industry , as exemplify by the Chancellor in his Budget and autumn statement recently . I will take away my hon . friend ' s word of advice about his university . on the point about encourage icb to take part in this work , as this plan be a joint document with NHS England , the expectation will be on icb to deliver the plan , because they exist to look after our constituent . this plan be one of the way we will be able to secure that help . in Bedford and Kempston , like many area in the country , we have a dental crisis . I have raise the matter of dentistry previously , include in a Westminster Hall debate . there can be no question but that under this Conservative Government there be a dentistry crisis and the people of this country have be fail . why do the Health Secretary refuse to admit that 14 year of neglect and underspending have lead we to this ? say the script . I assume the hon . Gentleman will welcome the 2 . 5 million more appointment that this dental recovery plan will deliver for all our country . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for this brilliant statement , and thank all the team for their huge amount of hard work . today be dentist day — yesterday be dentist day for I , as I have an appointment with the Minister and an appointment with a real dentist from South Derbyshire . this news be absolutely superb . will the Secretary of State get dentist to move to South Derbyshire , and ensure more free NHS dentistry there ? I have no doubt that with my hon . friend ' s characteristic joy and as an irresistible force of nature , she herself will be an advert for dentist to come to work in her constituency . a constituent recently tell I that when she try to register member of her family with an NHS dentist , she be tell that there be an eight - year wait . we know that workforce be a really big issue . on that basis , will the Secretary of State meet I and a cross - party group of Members of Parliament to talk about how we could develop a dental school at the site of the excellent Hull York Medical School to grow our own dentist for the future ? the right hon . Lady will know that part of the focus of the long - term workforce plan be to train people where they be most need . I will happily arrange for she to meet the relevant Minister . on registration , the current system be not like a gp practice where , once a family be register , they can only go to that GP . the whole reason that we have be encourage dentist to update their detail on the NHS website be so that people can move around to visit different dentist to get the treatment they need . today ' s plan will help turbocharge those effort . I welcome this recovery plan , which provide the foundation for put NHS dentistry on a sustainable long - term footing . I urge my right hon . friend to continue her negotiation to replace the exist NHS dentistry contract as soon as possible , and to provide funding to the Norfolk and Waveney integrate care board so that the University of Suffolk can open a new treatment and training facility in our area , to replicate the innovative service that be about to open in Ipswich . I understand my hon . friend ' s point , and I commend he for his work to ensure that his constituent receive the care and help that they deserve . on training , I hope he have draw out from the plan the emphasis that we be put on long - term ambition . we understand that we need to train more dentist and get internationally train dentist register in our system . we recognise the critical role that dental hygienist and therapist can play as well . if the Tories care about the NHS , we would not have 7 . 6 million people on the NHS waiting list and dentistry in crisis . the answer that the Secretary of State give to my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) demonstrate why we be in this situation . it be not about people turn up at A & E ; the inability to access NHS dentistry service lead to people be in a crisis situation and need emergency care . after 14 year of the Tory Government , why do we need a recovery plan for dentistry ? the hon . Gentleman be obviously asleep at the beginning of my statement , because I set out what I hope be a fact agree across the House about the pandemic — the real problem . People who have a relationship with a dentist before the pandemic do not face quite the same pressure as people who may have move home or whose dentist may have move practice . that be the cohort of people who we be try to help . it really would help if Labour member focus their argument a little more on the fact , rather than on the script that their whip have give out . I very much welcome this statement and the meeting I have have with my neighbour , the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) . the Secretary of State say that Northamptonshire will be include in a dental van roll - out , which be welcome , but the rest of the statement have a very rural focus . she will recall that my Prime Minister ' s question focus on shortage in Duston . be it at least a possibility that van will go to suburban area as well as rural one ? the criterion that will apply to the area cover by van be clearly set on dental need and other factor such as distance from an NHS dental practice . we have be able to identify area of particular need , where we want to get that help as quickly as we can through the dental van initiative and the other way detail in the plan . last year , about half of my constituent be able to access dental service — well below pre - pandemic level . under the plan , what proportion of my constituent can now hope to access NHS dental service within the next six month ? the dental recovery plan set out immediate - term , medium - term and long - term plan . in the immediate term , we have the new patient premium that will be live from next month , the increase in UDA value to £ 28 and the golden hello that I have describe to under - serve part of the country . there be a batch of measure throughout the plan to address the concern from colleague across the House . I have a plan to open a brand - new NHS dentistry practice in Peterborough . new financial incentive , increase UDA rate and recruitment of overseas dentist to Peterborough be all part of that plan . will my right hon . friend meet I and those who want to open new NHS dental clinic in Peterborough , so that we can take advantage of every part of her excellent plan ? I commend my hon . friend for his excellent work as a constituency MP . it be exactly that sort of drive and ambition that will deliver result for his constituent . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss his plan , and I be pleased that our national dental recovery plan will fit well with his own local delivery plan . I regret to inform the House that the situation in west Wales be quite catastrophic , and recent reform by the Welsh Government have probably make matter far bad . however , my constituent and I would like to know how much of what the Secretary of State have announce today be new money , result in Barnett consequential for the Welsh Government . the hon . Gentleman articulate the case against labour - run Wales with great power . there be £ 200 million on top of the £ 3 billion that we already spend on NHS dentistry in England . [ Official Report , 20 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 7mc . ] ( Correction ) I have raise dentistry a lot , because Stroud constituent and dentist have be really worried , so I welcome the Government ' s plan with NHS England . I give credit to gloucestershire ICB , which recognise the complexity of this issue . Post pandemic , it set about raise provision and we have decent take - up so far . my plea to the Secretary of State and to the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . Friend Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) be to continue their relentless focus on prioritise child ' s appointment , and not to let parent off the hook , because we can all do well even if it be hard to get a toothbrush in a three - year - old ' s gob every night . will the Secretary of State say more about how icb will be support to deliver the plan and integrate the work that they be already do ? the local area that be prioritise this be make a difference . my hon . friend be probably sum up this morning ' s toothbrushe ahead of the school run for many mum and dad up and down the country . that be the point — we want to work with parent . we do not want to patronise they . the overwhelming majority of parent do a great job look after their kid ' tooth . our plan be to support those who be struggle . the expectation on icb be clear . the plan be a document between NHSE and we . we want to deliver this plan at local level . expectation will be set on icb to make sure that they fulfil the potential of this great plan . I welcome this long overdue focus on dental access . I be particularly interested in the 240 golden hello that will be available . clearly , they will be inadequate to deal with the scale of the challenge . I be also concerned that the focus of the statement seem to be on put those golden hello in rural area . visibility and transparency be need about where they be allocate , because place such as Ellesmere Port have exactly the same issue as other area in the country . we get phone call every week from constituent ask where they can see an NHS dentist . we be not able to send they anywhere at the moment . be the Secretary of State able to guarantee that in future we will be able to send they somewhere ? I hope the hon . Gentleman will publicise the new patient premium , because that be one of the lever through which we will unlock place for new patient . I remember that he have take an interest in this issue . I very much understand the point about location . we have set strict criterion for how dental van will be deploy , but the new patient premium be across the country . we want as many people as possible to see nhs dentist and fill those 2 . 5 million more appointment . I particularly welcome the initiative to improve service in coastal and rural area . the Health Secretary and I be constituency neighbour , and she will know the complexity of deliver local service in what we know as great Lincolnshire , because her constituency be in the east midland and mine be in Yorkshire and the Humber . can she guarantee that the whole of great Lincolnshire , from the south of the county up to Barton - upon - Humber , will receive the benefit of the new proposal ? I be delighted to inform my hon . friend and neighbour that the new patient premium apply across England , and of course people can move to the dental practice that can offer they the service they need , so I trust that his constituent will be as happy as mine . be the £ 200 million additional , in the sense of be divert from other part of the NHS in England , or be it new money from the Treasury that would attract the Barnett consequential for Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland ? which be it ? we have finite resource . as I have say , this be additional money . I have prioritise dentistry across the board , but this be £ 200 million of additional money — in addition to the £ 3 billion that we spend in England . [ Official Report , 20 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 8MC . ] ( Correction ) I welcome what my right hon . friend have say , and I understand why some of the new resource that she have announce be direct at particular type of intervention and particular group of patient , but do she agree that one of the downside of such an approach , at least potentially , be the extra administration that will obstruct dentist in the effective delivery of that resource ? will she therefore ensure that the fund be easily accessible , and that there be no such extra administration that would make that more difficult ? do she accept that longevity and consistency of funding matter , because it enable dentist to plan properly for their patient ? my ethos be to make our NHS and social care system fast , simple and fair , and not just for patient but for practitioner . we do not want bureaucracy to get in the way of the delivery of these service , and I be impatiently keen to get they up and run in Members ’ constituency , so we will ensure that we make it be easy as possible for dental practice to use they . I be sure that fellow former teacher who be here today will have memory of the disappointment they feel when , after repeat delay and excuse , a student finally hand in some work , only for it to turn out to be not just a copy of someone else ' s work , but a pretty poor one at that . after so much delay and uncertainty , dentistry be at break point , so any progress , however late , have to be welcome . but every local professional network I have meet have stress the need for fundamental reform of the dental contract so that thing can get do . give that this Tory Government have be in place for 14 year , why will the Minister not commit herself to finally reform the contract and provide the boost to dentistry that my constituent so desperately want to see ? I think it be very courageous of any Labour Member of Parliament to talk about education , because we know just how dire the education result be in labour - run Wales . yes , I have commit to reform of the dental contract , and we will deliver these service immediately because we want to deliver result for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent as well as ours . I thank my right hon . friend for secure this vital plan , and I also thank her team for their ongoing engagement in what have be a difficult issue in my constituency since long before the pandemic . I can not wait to see a dental van in South Molton and Ilfracombe , and to welcome new dentist to Barnstaple , Braunton and beyond . however , I recognise that this will take time . we have recruitment challenge despite our staggeringly beautiful surf beach , which extend far beyond my right hon . friend ' s Department . give her success in securing today ' s announcement , might she be able to help I to promote these new dentistry opportunity to attract those who may not have previously consider spectacular , if remote , North Devon to be their future ? my hon . friend be exactly right . she be a wonderful constituency Member who speak up for her constituent , and I can assure they that she have be talk to I since the moment I be appoint . as for advertise the new service , this be an opportunity for member across the House — and I do hope that Opposition Members will be gracious — to ensure that their constituent be aware of they . we all want the good for our constituent , and the more we encourage local dentist to take up the new patient premium and unit of dental activity as well as the golden hello , the soon we will all see benefit in our constituency . for nearly a decade , I have stand in this Chamber and tell numerous Ministers that there be more chance of find gold brick on the street of Bradford than there be of get an NHS dentist when you need one . for 14 year , Ministers have make a political choice to ignore our call , but now , in a general election year , the Government suddenly want to take part of Labour ' s plan and present it as their own — frankly , it be shameless . will the Minister at least accept that unless there be proper reform , our NHS dentistry will remain rotten to the core ? again , we have hear a very loud performance from the hon . Gentleman — a typically loud performance . if only it have be as factual as it be loud . I have already set out , in response to the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , the difference between Labour ' s plan and our fully fund plan to secure immediate and long - term change . after 14 year of opposition , be this it ? as the Health Secretary will recall , we meet recently to discuss dentistry in Bracknell , so I really welcome the plan that she have announce today . will she please confirm , for the sake of absolute clarity , that a cornerstone of the recovery plan will be quick and easy access to nhs dentist , and also that they will be properly incentivise to absorb all the patient who need support ? indeed , and it be a pleasure to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue face his constituent . I hope he recognise that we will have those aim very much in mind in the delivery of the recovery plan . we will begin to see the roll - out of those 2 . 5 million more appointment in the come week as the new patient premium take hold . last month , Healthwatch Leeds submit evidence to the Health and Social Care Committee — testimony from people at the sharp end of the NHS crisis . one say : " I be really struggle to find an NHS dentist that be accept new patient at the moment . I be an apprentice and get pay minimum wage and can not afford a private dentist . " other speak of the way in which , accord to Healthwatch Leeds , " have no access to treatment be impact on their general well - being and mental health . " one of they say : " I just don ' t know what to do , who to turn to , how to get help . I just want to be able to smile again " . be it not the case that this Government ' s plan be too little too late , and that the queue snake around dentist ' surgery be testimony to the failure of 14 year of conservative government and a deliberate undermining of our valuable public service ? the hon . Gentleman have quote Healthwatch . I presume that he will also be gracious enough to acknowledge that the move to introduce 15 dental van have , in fact , be welcome by Healthwatch . we need more NHS dentistry on the Isle of Wight . I welcome this recovery plan , but can the Secretary of State tell I by when my constituent will see its benefit ? by 1 March , because that be when the new patient premium come into force . other aspect will take a little long , but we be clear about the immediate benefit , and we want to get those out to people as quickly as possible . in Devon and Cornwall last year , 57 % of dental surgery have at least one vacancy . before 2016 , more than 500 dentist register in the UK have train in european country , and they make up a quarter of the workforce . will the Secretary of State hee the call from the Association of Dental Groups for it to be make easy for qualified european dentist to practise here in the UK ? that be exactly what we be do , and not just in relation to other european nation but in relation to other country around the world . we want the General Dental Council to ensure that qualified dentist from overseas be recognise and support , and get on to our register as quickly as possible . like many other , I very much welcome the recovery plan , and I thank the Secretary of State for meet I early to discuss the issue that we face in York . however , may I press she on the subject of integrate care board ? will she ensure that they be hold to account ? will they face increase monitoring to ensure that they spend the allocate money on dentistry and on the target area in the recovery plan , and will that money remain ringfenced ? I well understand why my hon . friend have ask that question , about a matter that other member have also raise . we be explore way in which we can make the expenditure of the dentistry budget more transparent , because it be right for icb to reflect the need of local resident and deliver the service that should be available under this dental recovery plan . I very much welcome these intervention , particularly as I raise a question just a few week ago in Prime Minister ' s question about the time period . I be particularly pleased about that . on international dentist , I completely agree with what many colleague have say . I have a close friend whose husband be mexican and fully qualified as a dentist . the period between he get the right to be in the UK and become a dentist in the UK be two or three year — it be far too long and there be far too much bureaucracy . I appreciate the announcement on therapist . we have 24 new one on the new course in Suffolk , but 400 apply so I think there be room for even more therapist to play a key role . can we also make sure that the consultation period be rapid ? this be a common - sense policy and I think we should just get on with it . finally , will the Secretary of State visit Ipswich to see the new dental centre and hear the case we be make for a dental school ? we be the obvious place in the east of England , now that we have a dental centre . my hon . friend will appreciate that I get a lot of invitation , but I will do everything I can to meet he . his passion and ambition for his local area shine through , and not just in the question he ask today but in the question he ask the Prime Minister a few week ago . he be absolutely right : we need the General Dental Council to work with we — I think it will — to ensure that we can get more international dentist register as quickly as possible , for the benefit of our constituent . I welcome what the Secretary of State have say today . I also pay tribute to the ICB in Cheshire for the work that it have do to make additional appointment available in Warrington , where it have be incredibly difficult to access NHS dentistry despite there be many dentist on the high street , because so many have decide to move away from the NHS . can she explain how the change announce today will incentivise dentist to return to provide NHS service , so that constituent in Warrington South can get the NHS appointment they want ? as I have say , dentist be independent contractor but we want to encourage they back into the nhs if they have leave it , and we believe that the new patient premium and the work on the UDA be just two of the lever that we can deploy to achieve that . we also have a long - term vision for our NHS , and through the long - term workforce plan we will be train 40 % more dentist by 2031 . that be real ambition and a plan for the long - term future of our country . I completely welcome this plan , and particularly my right hon . friend ' s focus on underserved area and coastal community . this be something I have raise before in the Chamber . Southend be a coastal city with over 180 , 000 resident but only three dentist currently accept NHS patient , so we qualify on both count . please could she confirm for Southend and Leigh resident that we will also get either a van or well dental care , preferably within month , not year ? I be delighted to tell my hon . friend that those dental surgery already operate under NHS contract will have the benefit of new patient premium and the increase rate of UDA . on the dental van , she will appreciate that we be have to apply strict criterion to this , but I be delighted to see how enthusiastic she be about this recovery plan . I thank my right hon . friend for this really welcome plan . can she give any advice to patient who be register with an NHS dentist but have not be see in the last two year ? should they contact the dentist if they want an appointment or should they wait to be contact ? for those who be not register , where will they find a list of dentist that they can contact to register their interest in become a patient ? I thank my hon . friend and fellow great Lincolnshire MP for her question . in term of the mechanic of this be deliver , the new patient premium will come into force and patient can already look at the NHS website to see which practice have place available in their area . they can go there ; they do not need to have have an exist relationship with that dental practice . we will also be set out for constituent and member of Parliament how , once the new premium come in , people can get in contact and get the appointment we all want they to get . More dentist , more appointment , more incentive for NHS work and a focus on underserved area — this be exactly what Milton Keynes need . I would like to thank the Secretary of State and , in particular , her dental Minister and my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , for all the work they have do , and in particular for listen to I bang on about dentistry in Milton Keynes for so long . I seek just one more clarification , please . will the mobile dentist van be serve hard - to - reach rural area , such as my beautiful market town and village in Milton Keynes North ? I join my hon . friend in his praise for our right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) . as I say , we be have to apply strict criterion to the dental van . we want to get they out as quickly as possible to the most underserved area , but we do not want dental van to be the limit of our ambition . the idea behind they be very much to revitalise those part of the country that do not have NHS dental practice within a reasonable distance , and we be convince that dental van be just one of the lever by which we will achieve that . as my right hon . friend know , I be extremely concerned about access to dentistry for resident in Stockton South , so I hugely welcome this unprecedented investment and the place it will create locally . can she confirm that the Government be commit to tackle the situation as quickly as possible and also for the long - term , and that they will continue to consult on broad workforce and contract reform ? I be delighted to confirm that . we have want to deal with the issue as quickly as we can , but also with an eye to the future . this be the way in which the Government set out our plan for the NHS and for our social care system . I be confident , for example , about the introduction of golden hello for new dentist . we know that that work with GPs and we now want to try it with dentist to see whether we can get dentist into those area that do not have the service they need at the moment . accord to the National Audit Office , North West Norfolk have one of the low number of dentist per population . can my right hon . friend confirm that my constituent will benefit from the £ 20 , 000 incentive and from the mobile dental van ? on training , will she look closely at the proposal from the University of East Anglia for a dental training school ? that be the obvious place to have it in the east of England . my hon . friend will not be surprised to learn that I have receive rather a lot of lobbying about the location of future dental school . he will see in the plan that we be very open to the idea of train people with a view to their remain in those area . this be where golden hello come in , and they will most definitely apply in the hard - to - reach and underserved area . as I say , we be take very careful criterion - drive decision about where the dental van will be supply , but we understand the problem that Norfolk have . I welcome the statement and also thank my right hon . friend for meet I recently to discuss dental care in Harrogate and Knaresborough , where we have recently see two practice hand back their NHS contract , cause significant patient concern . I be pleased to hear her comment early about the retention of dentist within the NHS . do she agree that good oral health be a critical part of good overall health , that establish good practice early in life be essential and that that involve the very early year and support parent ? very much so . the truth be that tooth appear long before reception class , and this be why we want to focus not just on baby and toddler in early year setting but , importantly , on pregnant mum because their oral health while pregnant can have ramification for their baby . the dental recovery plan be seek to address this through a long - term sweep from the very beginning of life to adulthood , with 2 . 5 million more appointment and a long - term plan for NHS dentistry in our country . I thank the Secretary of State for answer for more than an hour . we will now proceed , but first I will take point of order . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early this week , the Government publish a write statement as a response to the consultation on their White Paper on artificial intelligence . however , this statement be very limited in detail . this be in stark contrast to both the US and the EU , both of which have set out clear response to the challenge and opportunity of AI . the Government ' s write response fail to set out the full scale of opportunity to use AI in area such as medicine , and fail to tackle concern about safety such as those raise recently about deepfake . can you advise I on how I and other member can ask Ministers to explain this very limited response , and on what opportunity there might be for we to raise this matter in the House ? yes , I can advise the hon . Gentleman , but he do not have to raise the matter with the occupant of the Chair to get that advice . we have excellent clerk in the Table Office , the Journal Office , et cetera , who would happily give he that advice . he can submit a request for an urgent question , he can apply for an Adjournment debate or he can table a question to the relevant Minister , and I be quite sure he will get further answer to his question . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s Question Time there be a distinct sense of d é j à vu when the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , whom I have notify of this point of order , ask a question about Eastbourne District General Hospital , which be nowhere near her constituency and be rather close to mine . it repeat an attack on the hospital by her leader , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , last year , when I gather that he be force to apologise to the House for misinformation — something that we do not often hear from he . the hon . member for St Albans claim — the claim be also put out by the liberal Democrat candidate who be recently on the same BBC programme as I and , again , it have to be put right — that the paediatric department at Eastbourne District General Hospital be be downgrade . this have lead to many concerned constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) , who can not be here today because she be ill , fear that paediatric be be close at Eastbourne District General Hospital and that patient would have to go a long way to Conquest Hospital . none of that be remotely true . there will be no closure . what be happen be that two paediatric department be be merge on the same site at Eastbourne District General Hospital , and child will receive urgent care under specialist paediatric nurse for seven day a week , which they do not get now . this be a scare story , and it seem to be the subject of serial scare story from the Liberal Democrats . this be really frightening for people and family live in that constituency . Madam Deputy Speaker , how can that correction be put on the record ? will the hon . member for St Albans take this opportunity to withdraw she entirely inaccurate charge ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . of course , it be not for the occupant of the Chair to adjudicate on what be accurate and what be not accurate , but he have make a very serious point . I remind hon . member that they ought to be very careful in what they say in this House because of the wide - reach ramification of any description they make of local event . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to respond to the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) . he will be acutely aware that I be the health and social care spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , and that I have raise question about hospital across the country 16 , 17 or possibly even 18 time . my concern be about the NHS and hospital service more broadly . I be sure the hon . Gentleman will also be aware that , at a hearing of the relevant county council ' s health overview and scrutiny committee in December , the local trust be quote as say : " we be substitute a consultant for an Advanced Nurse Practitioner . it might be that the ANP take a more cautious approach and send more child over to Hastings than a senior consultant . " if there be no reason for concern , why do the cross - party health overview and scrutiny committee vote unanimously for a pause ? if there be nothing to worry about , why have the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) follow the lead of campaigner by also call for a call - in ? it seem to I that local resident have concern , and they want those concern to be hear in this Chamber . I thank the hon . Lady for respond to the point of order of the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) . as I say early , it be not for the occupant of the Chair to adjudicate between different interpretation of fact . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for take the opportunity to put her point to the House , and I quite understand the point make by the hon . Gentleman . I be sure there will be further opportunity , hopefully in the near future , for they to discuss this matter reasonably on the Floor of the House . I reiterate that it be very important that fact present in the Chamber be accurate . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question , I be horrified to hear the Prime Minister , in LGBT History Month and on a day when Brianna Ghey ' s mother be in Parliament , make a transphobic joke in the Chamber . as elect representative , we come to this place to improve the condition of other , do we not ? at a time when the trans community be face unprecedented attack from people in this place , from people in the other place and from the medium , it be incumbent on we all to reflect on our language , on how we approach these issue and on how we talk about the trans and non - binary community . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you guide we on how we can ensure that the Prime Minister apologise ? he be give an opportunity towards the end of Prime Minister ' s question , and he refuse . can you use your good office to encourage he to take the opportunity to come back to the Chamber to apologise for those remark and to remove they from the record ? I do not believe his remark reflect the view of the majority of people in this Chamber who want to respect the trans and non - binary community , and who want to make it well and easy for they to live their life in safety instead of what be increasingly become a hostile environment . I appreciate the hon . Lady ' s point , but it be often necessary for Mr Speaker or the Deputy Speakers to say that point of order be not design to continue the argument of Prime Minister ' s question . the Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition and , indeed , all member be here for the time that the Prime Minister be here , and very often — indeed , almost always — Opposition Members will disagree with what the Prime Minister say . it be not for I to adjudicate , nor indeed to require he to say anything different . I will say , however , that the hon . Lady touch on a very sensitive subject , and I understand that the mother of the tragically murder teenager Brianna Ghey be present this afternoon . I reiterate , as I believe the Prime Minister do from what I hear at the end of Prime Minister ' s question , the enormous sympathy that everyone in this House have — [ interruption . ] could the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) just let I finish , please . it be not for I to comment on what the Prime Minister say or do not say . on behalf of the whole House , I reiterate our enormous sympathy and , indeed , admiration for Brianna Ghey ' s mother on the way in which she have conduct her public profile during this tragic time for she and her family . the House ought to show sympathy and understanding when a tragedy occur , rather than always make political point . state Pension Age ( Compensation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a compensation scheme for woman bear between 6th April 1950 and 5th April 1960 inclusive who have be affect by increase in the state pension age ; and for connected purpose . like so many injustice create by Westminster , the lack of resolution for the 3 . 8 million WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman be a disgrace . those 3 . 8 million woman be give the bombshell that their state pension age be go to increase from 60 to 66 just as they be about to retire and it be too late to do any proper financial planning . many be already in ill health or bad , and other have take early retirement and be plan to get by until age 60 , when they think they would receive their state pension . for nine year , this place have debate the matter , hear harrowing individual story , with many mp , from across the Chamber , pledge they would do all they could to help those woman . but for nine year the Government have ignore the plight of those woman . they hope the WASPI woman would go away , but they have not , although , unfortunately , 40 , 000 be die each year without get any form of compensation , with some 240 , 000 have already , tragically , pass away without receive compensation . for those now try to make the good of their retirement , while face a cost of living crisis , polling have establish that half of WASPI woman have struggle to pay essential bill in the past six month and , bad , a quarter have struggle to buy food . we know that this be an injustice ; indeed , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman judge as far back as July 2021 that the Department for Work and Pensions be guilty of maladministration due to lack of direct communication . yet here we be , still fight for compensation . the majority of the Tory Back Benchers who previously be very vocal in support WASPI woman , include the leader of the Tories in Scotland , have all go quiet , as have the Labour party . astonishingly , the good I can find from the current Labour leader be : " we ' ve meet many of these woman and campaigner . and our heart go out to they … it ' s a huge injustice . " he also say he would need to hear the outcome of the court case he believe be ongoing — that be back in April 2023 . just say " our heart go out to they " be as bad as say nothing . it be completely vacuous , and there have be silence in the 10 month since , when the court case have already conclude . I urge the leader of the Labour party : instead of let the Tories move his political dial and political compass , find a moral backbone and make a commitment that if this fag - end Tory Government will not deliver some form of compensation , a future Labour Government will . have say that , give that the current labour shadow Work and Pensions Secretary have never utter the word " WASPI " or " 1950s woman " in Parliament , and neither have Labour ' s Women and Equalities spokesperson , I do not see much pressure be put on the Labour leader from within his shadow Cabinet . this be a shocking dereliction of duty from what be suppose to be the main Opposition party at Westminster . it be not just the main party here at Westminster let down the WASPI woman ; the ombudsman have take way too long and be still drag its foot , have give the woman hope and dash it time and again . it be hard to believe that in the almost three year since the maladministration assessment , a solution be still to be recommend by the ombudsman . it be a scandal in itself that the WASPI woman have to go to court to confirm the flaw in the second ombudsman report . this process should have be close out a long time ago , and I know from deal with constituent affect by this that they find this drag out of the process stressful and frustrating , and be rub salt in their wound . as we head towards another general election , it help the Government hide behind the myth that they can not do anything until the PHSO conclude . we also know that when the PHSO do conclude , the DWP still will not admit its failure to communicate adequately and its maladministration , so parliamentary intervention will probably be require to force the Government ' s hand . the purpose of this Bill be to bring forward parliamentary intervention to stop those affected woman have to wait any long . fair and fast compensation be the simple scheme that the WASPI woman be look for , use , as a minimum , level 5 of the ombudsman scale — realistically , however , level 6 of the PHSO banding be the most appropriate — and this Bill could deliver a simple framework . we be talk about a practical resolution , one that do not result in astronomical sum per person . it be not ask for a reversal of pension age to 60 , and it be not a full restitution of pension for those affect by the maladministration — no matter how nice an outcome that would be . the WASPI woman understand there be no blank cheque from the Treasury ; they be practical and they want to get on . that say , we can not lose sight of the fact that the UK Government have save £ 200 billion from the decision to equalise the state pension age at 66 . if we look at funding in the round , change non - dom tax status could bring in £ 3 . 6 billion a year to the Treasury , and change the capital gain rate to that of income tax could bring in a furth £ 10 billion to £ 15 billion a year . two simple tax change would easily pay for compensation in a couple of year and create long - term additional income for the Treasury . if the Government properly tackle the personal protective equipment and covid support fraud , they could bring in even more money to pay out . there have never be a vip lane for the WASPI woman , and no Minister have ever agree to meet they . can the difference in attitude be any starker ? be that because minister do not want to hear the real story of constituent ? my constituent Ann contract viral meningitis at age 59 and a half . follow consultant advice , she opt to stop work and give she three month ' notice , in order to retire at 60 . literally day before her retirement date , she get the news that she would not get her state pension until age 66 . she be too old - school to try to change her agreement and go for ill health retiral , which would have be the most appropriate outcome , so she endure six year without employment or pension , and the associate stress of that impact on her health recovery . my constituent Marie ' s husband get cancer and have to stop work when she be age 59 . she be force to work on for another seven year , do work that require physical effort while do caring duty , in order to survive financially . my constituent Mary go part - time at age 55 , due to health condition , and then get the pension age increase bombshell at aged 59 and two month . that force she to work on for several year , even while have cancer treatment in her 60 . my constituent Pamela be give the news at age 60 , just as she retire . she could not get back into the workforce and suffer ill health . she be force to downsize her property twice , and she still have a financial hangover . my constituent Violet be widow at age 53 . she have be work since the age of 15 and have be pay national insurance contribution for 45 year , but be force to wait another six year due to that lack of notification . my constituent Lynn be exhaust after work for 34 year in the NHS and agree early retirement at 55 . however , she find out on her very last day at work that it would be 11 year before she get her state pension , not the five she anticipate . my constituent Nancy be widow at 54 , while she be work part - time . this be traumatic emotionally and then financially . she suffer umpteen chronic health condition , while care for parent and still be force to continue take NHS bank work to survive . my constituent Lesley be sometimes work three job to make end meet and put money away for the future . she be the carer for her partner when he have cancer and for her dad when he have cancer . she then have a period of travel to Southampton every weekend to visit her aunt . her superwoman effort would exhaust anyone , and it be little wonder that she take early retirement at age 56 , only later to discover she would have to get by for a further six year before get her pension . I have countless example of constituent who would have put more into private pension and who would have top up NI contribution . I have example of those who have have to use their saving , who have miss out on holiday and who have generally struggle to get by because of that lack of notification . let we not forget that many of these woman be well - qualified . they be intelligent , yet they be make to feel that it be somehow their fault that they do not know . the DWP ' s denial make it bad for these woman . Westminster need to make amend for its mistake . let I give a reminder , however , of how it operate : the miner ' strike miscarriage of justice , the Hillsborough cover - up , the infected blood scandal go back to the late 1970 , and the ongoing sub - postmaster scandal . those be all issue that the three UK - wide party have be complicit in at some point or another . it seem this place never learn . however , on a positive note , I be grateful for the cross - party support for this Bill . I pay tribute to the tireless campaigning of the WASPI woman , particularly locally , include Ann Hamell , who first bring this matter to my attention and have keep fight for justice since . by stick together , we will get some form of compensation . even that will not undo the wrong , and the emotional and financial distress for the woman , but it will finally be an admission of guilt and a small financial redress that can bring some relief to woman who be prejudice against in term of work pay and pension pot , and then prejudice against in retirement since . question put and agree to . order , that Alan Brown , Steven Bonnar , Patricia Gibson , Jim Shannon , Marion Fellows , Grahame Morris , Amy Callaghan , Colum Eastwood , Peter Aldous , Wendy Chamberlain , Gavin Newlands and Chris Stephens present the Bill . Alan Brown accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April , and to be print ( Bill 164 ) . Police Grant Report I beg to move , that the Police Grant Report ( England and Wales ) 2024 - 25 ( HC 482 ) , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . police officer , police community support officer , special constable and police staff up and down the country do great work every single day of the week , keep we and our constituent safe , very often put themselves in the line of danger to protect the public . I be sure member across the House will want to pay tribute to those officer and staff , and thank they for the work they do . the vast majority of officer be decent , hard - work and brave , and we owe they a great deal . the police look after and support we ; it be important that we support and look after they in return . the funding settlement that we present to Parliament today do that . we be increase the funding available for police by £ 843 million compare with last year . last year ' s funding have already be increase by £ 330 million , account for the police pay settlement , effective from 1 September , so next year ' s envelope in total will be £ 18 . 4 billion . within that , we be prioritise the frontline . we be get more money than ever before into the hand of police and crime commissioner , who spend money on frontline policing . presume they use their precept flexibility , which I think they will , police and crime commissioner will receive an extra £ 922 million next year , which be a cash increase of 6 % compare with the previous year . rise — I thank the Minister for Policing for those increase he mention and for his help on section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2002 and deal with illegal motorcycle in my area . the issue be that Bedfordshire police survive on a series of top - up grant because the national funding formula be not very fair to we . do the Minister foresee a time when we can get rid of those grant and have our core funding bake into our core funding , so we do not rely on special grant ? my hon . friend campaign tirelessly for Bedfordshire police and to combat the scourge of antisocial motorcycle use . I believe we will shortly be organise a meeting to discuss that issue . he be right that Bedfordshire receive special grant support in order to fund its activity , particularly in relation to gang violence in certain urban part of the county , but he be also right that we need to change the underlie funding formula because it be over 10 year out of date . it need to well reflect population change and change in crime , and well reflect issue of sparsity and rurality . the Home Office be actively work on that . rise — I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the very good meeting he have with Lincolnshire MPs yesterday . as he be an outstanding Minister , he will appreciate that Lincolnshire , even take account of the extra money , be the worst fund authority in the country , with the low staffing level , and face particular challenge because of its sparsity . deliver any public service , include policing , over a sparsely populated area be a challenge . so , will he take a close look at what extra he can do in anticipation of the much - need change to the funding formula , which he be advocate today ? I meet my right hon . friend yesterday evening and he make a powerful case on Lincolnshire police , and for update the funding formula , as we have discuss . he also make the case on Lincolnshire ' s need over the come financial year , which I undertake to go away and look at . as he say , the issue of sparsity and rurality that affect Lincolnshire , as well as other county , need to be properly account for . he speak extremely powerfully and compellingly in our meeting yesterday . the funding picture that the Minister paint be not entirely accurate . in West Yorkshire , direct funding from Ministers fall by £ 25 million between 2015 - 16 and 2019 - 20 . what be more , the cumulative total of Government funding cut from West Yorkshire police since 2015 - 16 be more than £ 100 million . once the figure that the Minister be announce be compare to that cumulative amount , it will surely change thing , and the picture will not look as rosy . on long - term funding trend , the total cash funding for police in 2010 - 11 be about £ 13 . 1 billion . as I set out , it be now £ 18 . 4 billion , so it be £ 5 . 3 billion high in cash term . it have essentially keep pace with inflation , although crime be low . he mention West Yorkshire ; the central Government grant for West Yorkshire in the financial year 2023 - 24 , with the extra money for pay that I mention , be £ 415 million . next year , the Government grant for West Yorkshire will go up by about £ 31 million , which be well above inflation , to £ 446 million . if we add in the police precept , which may go up a little bit as well , West Yorkshire ' s funding next year will be 7 . 1 % high . if we look at police as a whole , frontline policing will be up by 6 % next year . can I ask the Minister about the precept ? in just a moment . overall , next year , police funding will be up 6 % on this year for frontline force . inflation be currently only 4 % and be forecast to fall far . far to the intervention by the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , be it not the reality that the contribution of the police precept to the overall cost of policing have increase substantially ? in the case of Dyfed - Powys police , the precept be 37 % of total funding in 2010 - 11 , but this year it be 54 . 4 % , so the burden be be push on to local taxpayer via the precept . overall , across England and Wales , around two third of the total funding come from central Government . as the hon . Gentleman say , that vary by police force , but on Dyfed - Powys police , the Government grant be go up next year by £ 6 million , which be nearly 10 % , whereas the precept component be only go up by about £ 3 million . the Government grant for Dyfed - Powys will go up by double the amount of the precept increase . I say again that frontline police force next year will have a funding increase of 6 % , at a time when inflation be only 4 % and fall . Donna Jones , the police and crime commissioner for Hampshire and the Isle of Wight , have launch a consultation . my view be that if constituent attach great importance to policing — certainly , my correspondence tell I that they do — then they will be prepare to pay for it . my right hon . friend be quite right . of course , all police , whether fund from central Government or via the precept , be ultimately pay for by taxpayer . in the most recent spending review a few year ago , the precept limit be set at £ 10 — that is , english force could put up the precept by only £ 10 . we have give more flexibility — this year it be £ 15 , and next year it will be £ 13 — so that PCCs can decide to increase the precept by a bit more if they choose to , which be their democratic right . on the issue of police and crime commissioner , I do not know whether the Minister be aware of the appalling comment make by the Cheshire police and crime commissioner about schoolgirl wear very short skirt . this raise huge question about whether victim can have confidence in the justice system in Cheshire . will he take the opportunity to distance himself from those comment and join we in call on the pcc to resign ? I be afraid that I have not see those comment , so it would not be right for I to remark on they , but I will say that the Government be completely committed to combat violence against woman and girl , to increase rape prosecution and to increase prosecution for serious sexual assault . the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) and I have a meeting with police leader on that very topic just in the past few day , and those be action to which we be committed . in addition to the substantial funding increase of £ 922 million — nearly £ 1 billion — for frontline policing , an above inflation increase of 6 % have be announce today . we have of course increase total police expenditure by about £ 2 . 7 billion since 2019 , which have fund the police uplift programme . it be worth reiterate that in March last year , we exceed our target , deliver 149 , 566 officer — about 3 , 500 more than we have see at any time in the history of police in England and Wales . that be an important commitment , and our intention be to maintain those officer number go forward . we have construct the police uplift ringfence and the financial arrangement for this come financial year to enable police force around the country to maintain those high officer number . as the Minister say , police force across the country do some great work . that apply to Leicestershire police , particularly those in Loughborough who have to deal with county line . many of the new officer be base in Loughborough and be do an excellent job . the increase in the precept be also excellent and very welcome in Leicestershire , but can we do more — that is , not just increase the value of the precept , but ensure that what police be ask to do be more efficient ? redaction be one example . Police should not have to redact evidence when 25 % of case that go to the Crime Prosecution Service be not take far forward . my hon . friend raise an important point . the issue be not just about provide more resource , but make sure that the police can operate efficiently . for example , we be roll out the " Right Care , Right Person " initiative , which start in Humberside , to make sure that when a mental health case be purely medical , and there be no threat to public safety and no criminality , it be handle medically by the health service . implement that across the country will save about 1 million hour a year of police time . there be other administrative change that we can make , and the redaction issue be one of they . I discuss that with the new Director of Public Prosecutions , Stephen Parkinson , early this week , and I will discuss it with he again in March . change the rule around redaction will save very many hour of police time . there be also technology solution that will help , not just in those 25 % of case in which the CPS decide not to charge , but in the 75 % of case in which it do charge . automate redaction tool drive by artificial intelligence will save many ten of thousand — probably hundred of thousand — of hour of police time . I be encourage police force up and down the country to adopt that technology to save a huge amount of time . before the intervention , I be say that record police officer number and record funding be all well and good , but what the public want be result . as the Office for National Statistics have tell we , the only reliable source of long - term trend datum for high - volume crime be the crime survey for England and Wales . that show that overall crime , exclude fraud and computer misuse , which only come into the figure recently , go down from 9 . 5 million offence in the last year of the previous Labour Government to 4 . 3 million in the past year — a 55 % reduction . violent crime go down from 1 . 8 million offence under the last Labour Government to just 900 , 000 — a 51 % reduction . theft be down from about 5 million offence to 2 . 7 million — a 46 % reduction . robbery be down 74 % , theft from the person down 40 % , domestic burglary down 56 % , vehicle - relate theft down 39 % , criminal damage down 72 % , and even bicycle theft be down under this government . the plan be work ; let we not go back to square one . as for homicide , the most serious crime of all , in the last year of the last Labour Government , there be 620 homicide . we have manage to get that down to 591 . every one of those crime be a tragedy ; every one of they be one too many . none the less , I be sure that all of we can welcome that reduction in homicide — rise — — and I be sure that the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) be about to join I in do just that . may I offer my support to our local police and say what a wonderful service they provide to our community ? I be curious about what the Minister say about bureaucracy . it appear that what the Government have actually do in the past 14 year be cut police number very substantially and then replace some of those police officer with new officer who need to be train . what proportion of those new officer be still undergo some form of training or receive support ? to be clear , there be a reduction in police officer number in the coalition year — the year immediately after 2010 — owe to the appalling financial condition that we inherit . however , those police officer have be more than replace . the total number of officer in England and Wales last year be about 3 , 500 high than it be in 2010 . it be therefore true to say that many officer have join relatively recently , which mean that there be a training and supervision job to do — and police force be do it . retention rate be quite high . the staff survey show quite high satisfaction rate , so with each month that pass since the influx of the past three or four year , those officer become more experienced . that will benefit our constituent and make sure that the trend of fall crime continue . we be take action on drug , have close down more than 2 , 000 county line since April 2022 . we be also tackle knife crime , which we discuss extensively yesterday . we be remove more than 130 , 000 knife through stop and search , which be important . we need to use stop and search and surrender programme with confidence . we be invest in violence reduction unit , and today we renew our commitment to fund those unit and do prevention work . we renew our commitment to hotspot patrolling against serious violence , knife crime and antisocial behaviour . this funding settlement include £ 66 million of extra money that will go to every single police force in the country for hotspot patrol in area where antisocial behaviour and serious violence be a problem . where we have trialle that — for example , we trialle antisocial behaviour hotspot patrolling in part of Essex , and serious violence patrolling in place such as Brighton — we have see a reduction of approximately 30 % in antisocial behaviour and crime such as robbery . we know that it work . from April this year , every single police force will get that funding . I urge member from all part of the House to talk to their local pcc and make sure that those hotspot patrol take place in town centre , on high street , or wherever else , so that the public can see that the issue be be deal with . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . during the year of austerity , which hit our police force hard , we lose 21 , 000 police officer . he have talk about the uplift in number since then , but over the same period , police station across the UK close at the rate of one a week , which result in four in 10 police station be close during that period . what be his plan to reopen those police station in the heart of our community ? that will be need if community be truly to take back some of the street that have have massive problem with antisocial behaviour . it be up to police and crime commissioner how to spend the money in this record funding settlement . some police force be be creative by , for example , co - locate with fire station . good police and crime commissioner avoid close police station . for example , the former Conservative Mayor of London , Boris Johnson , manage to largely avoid police station closure — closure that his predecessor , Ken Livingstone , have plan , and that his successor , Sadiq Khan , have in some case carry out , or at least threaten to carry out . in the west midland , the current Labour police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster , be plan to close 20 police station . there be way of avoid that by well manage the budget . there be a record funding settlement here . these be choice make locally , and they be often avoidable . we be also provide £ 1 billion for national policing priority and capability , include various form of technology , new national database and so on . it be important that we continue to use technology to innovate . that include invest heavily in such thing as robotic process automation , which save a lot of manual work . I mention automate redaction tool . facial recognition can be use retrospectively , to identify suspect who have commit an offence and whose picture have be catch by CCTV , and use live , to spot people who be want by police , for example when they walk down a high street or through a train station . in recent week , we have be deploy live facial recognition technology in my south London borough of Croydon . People who be want for rape , grievous bodily harm , drug offence , or fail to attend court have be catch wander down the street . our local superintendent think that , over about 10 deployment on Tuesday and Thursday afternoon in central Croydon between December and January , the police will end up arrest about 100 people who be want for really serious offence or do not turn up at court . those people would otherwise never have be arrest . again , member should ask their local pcc and chief constable what they be do with retrospective and live facial recognition . those technology can catch dangerous criminal who would otherwise go undetected . it be a really important area . we continue to invest in various crime programme . I mention violence reduction unit and hotspot patrolling . project ADDER — addiction , diversion , disruption , enforcement and recovery — continue , deal with drug , and the safe street fund continue as well . we also continue to fund counter - terrorism police at around £ 1 billion per year , in addition to our support for rocu — regional organise crime unit — of around £ 25 million per year . this be record police funding . it be go up by more than inflation as far as police and crime commissioner be concerned . we hit record police number last year . crime overall be 56 % low than in 2010 , and be continue to fall . there be , of course , more work to do , but we be here to fund and back the police , and to keep our constituent safe . that be what this financial settlement do . I call the shadow Minister . our thank go to police officer , police community support officer and police staff across the country for their work . it can be dangerous , but it be always important . our community value it greatly , and it be essential to british life . we be grateful and lucky to have they . I also thank police and crime commissioner . they be 85 day away from the next set of pcc election . some will not stand again , some might not be return , and some will be re - elect . again , our thank go to they all for do a very difficult job , often across huge geography , represent and step up for their community . as I say , we be lucky to have they . police force across England and Wales be still live with the impact of 14 year of failure by the Government . rate of serious violence be up , and charge rate be plummet . I be amazed by what the Minister say about morale among rank and file officer , which we know be at low level . the loss of staff have be significant in the last year , and it be very strange to hear that that be not a problem . we know that chief constable and police and crime commissioner be grapple with limited resource and try to deal with the crisis in public confidence , which be frankly disconnected from what the Minister just say . all the while , the real , everyday problem that our constituent see in their community be get bad , not well . we have witness a collapse in neighbourhood police in recent year , with 10 , 000 few officer on the beat . police force be still reel from the year of experience and expertise that be lose when the Government cut police officer by 20 , 000 . of the new recruit bring in when the Government realise that grave error , an estimate 6 , 000 officer be not on frontline duty but be instead cover role that be traditionally do by vital civilian staff . be it any wonder that 50 % of people say that they no long ever see police on the street ? I ask colleague whose case well marry up with what their constituent say : the Minister ' s or mine . I know the answer . my hon . friend be make an excellent case . he be right that during the last decade , due to austerity , there have be substantial cut to neighbourhood policing . in West Yorkshire , we have lose 1 , 000 neighbourhood police officer . do he agree that neighbourhood policing be the essential link between the police and our community ? not only do it increase confidence in policing but it make the role much easy by prevent antisocial behaviour and in many other way , because of the bond between the community and the police . my hon . friend make an important point , and I absolutely share his view . neighbourhood policing be the bedrock of policing . a lot of the problem that we be try to deal with — I will speak about they in a second — have grow and fester because we have give up on neighbourhood police for well over a decade and have lose control of our street . whether it be antisocial behaviour , shoplift on high street , the epidemic level of violence and abuse against our retail worker , community where there be drug deal in broad daylight , or the horrific level of knife crime — up 77 % since 2015 — the experience of our constituent under this Government be that criminal get let off and victim get let down . after 14 year in government — the Minister do not use this in his statistical run - down — over 90 % of crime go unsolved , mean that criminal be less than half as likely to be catch than they be when the Government take office in 2010 . that be the Government ' s record on law and order . the Government and the Minister want we to believe that we have never have it so good , but everywhere we look there be serious problem , which be compound to a degree by the settlement . this be an unamendable motion about more money for our policing , and of course we will support it , but the detail that sit beneath it deserve serious scrutiny . colleague will have see the dismay across police at the 6 % cash increase , set below the level of the pay award . that be before on - cost , and before inflation . the settlement exacerbate rather than resolve some of the funding challenge . particularly challenging — the Minister say this himself — be that a third of the settlement be base on the assumption that police and crime commissioner will increase council tax for local ratepayer to the maximum . yet again we see a shift from central Government funding to local community for vital everyday service . as the Minister say , the Government have lift the cap on the precept so that PCCs can raise it by £ 13 next year for band d property . that in itself be a challenge for people ' s finance , but it also create differential challenge across the country , as the money be not then spread equitably . the most deprived area of our country , which have the few higher - band property pay high rate of council tax , get the least return from a local precept . well - off area will get more funding because their tax base be high . that be not level up , which I suspect have long since be put in a drawer somewhere , but drive a wedge between different part of our country when the safety and security of our constituent be at stake . that failure of leadership have consequence for less well - off area — the part of the country more likely to suffer from antisocial behaviour , violence , sexual offence or robbery . the shadow Minister say that the balance of funding be be shift on to local area . to be clear about the fact , the increase in the central Government grant go to police and crime commissioner be just over £ 600 million . the anticipated increase through the precept be about £ 300 million . the Government grant increase be about double the precept increase . the central Government finance line be bear by far the lion ' s share of the increase — about two third of it , in fact . I be grateful for that intervention . I do not think that it be revelatory — indeed , we will decade if not a century and a half ' s worth of precedent — that central Government fund police in this country . what I be say be that , year on year , the share provide by the local ratepayer be increase , and this be a continuation of that . it be legitimate to ask whether that be the good funding model . I will get to the funding formula shortly , but , as I say , that differential impact be not a serious way to bring down crime rate across the country . to add insult to injury , the Minister say in his write statement : " when set their budget , PCCs should be mindful of the cost of living pressure that householder be face . " be the Government for real ? give the Minister ' s role in the previous Government , and give the Government ' s indifference to the challenge that people across the UK face , that be front beyond imagination . tell our pcc that they should be mindful ? I say , " physician , heal thyself . " the public will not be take for fool by the Government , though . just as , when they open their mortgage statement , they know what have happen , when they open their council tax bill , it will tell they all they need to know . I turn now to the funding formula , which other colleague have raise . Countless Ministers , include this Minister , have stand at the Dispatch Box or answer write question over the year , pledge to do something about a system that be badly overdue for renewal . member across the House have be raise this for many year with the Government . in December , the Treasury inform the Public Accounts Committee that a new formula would be introduce as soon as possible . in January , the Minister say , in response to a question from my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) , that he would update the House on work to update the formula " as soon as I can . " — [ Official Report , 15 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 569 . ] yet , two week ago , we see in the press that the can be to be kick down the road again , because no . 10 be worried about police funding cut in a general election year . I start by express my thank for the fantastic work undertake by local police officer right across Bedfordshire . however , with the Conservatives ' own police and crime commissioner agree that the current unfair funding formula leave no meat on the bone at all for local police , do my hon . friend agree that it be police officer and local resident who be be let down by inaction on this issue , and that minister owe it to they to live up to their previous commitment to ensure that a fair formula be deliver within this Parliament ? I be grateful for that contribution from my hon . friend . yes , I think the public would expect not only that the formula reflect the need across the country , but that when promise be make repeatedly over multiple year , those promise be keep ; even if the upshot be difficult political question , the Government ought to rise above that . instead , it just look as though they be try to dodge responsibility . I hope the Minister will be clear in his summing - up about the status of that formula . have no . 10 Downing Street tell he to put it on hold ? if not , when will it be announce ? the public deserve to know . may I ask the hon . Gentleman kindly to take a look at the recommendation of the Welsh Government ' s own independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales , which report early this month ? the commission strongly argue in favour of devolving policing and criminal justice power to Wales , a position that be support by the Welsh Government and the current First Minister . that would make a huge difference to funding for police in Wales , because it would be base on population share and Barnett consequential of spending in England , unlike the funding formula at present . I have have conversation with my colleague in Wales on that matter . there be something to be say about the funding formula and Barnett — I be not conflate they , but I think that show how badly break the formula be . that point be well make and , as I say , I have have conversation with colleague in Wales about it . I will move on to the Minister ' s priority , as outline in the settlement , and the police uplift programme . as I say early , 6 , 000 of the new recruit be not where the public would expect they to be . I have have a front - row seat , over my few month in post , as the Government have go through all the contortion on this issue . last autumn , they tell we we have record number of police on the neighbourhood beat , but that have long since be disproven . early this year , the Minister try a new tack and say the Government would rebadge response police as neighbourhood police , so they could add those number together to would match up with the rhetoric . the public have see right through that as well . last week , the Home Secretary try another approach , demand that police chief put more officer on the beat as part of his " back to basic " campaign — as if those chief be not work in overdrive to do that all the time , all year round . we respect and recognise the huge amount of work they be do to get police out where community want they . that be another approach by the Government , and another one that will fail ; I be in short trouser the last time they do a " back to basic " campaign , but I do not think it have a very good history and I be not sure it be the right approach for they . what we see , as always , be denial and deflection ; it be always someone else ' s fault . Labour have a well plan . our community policing guarantee would rebuild neighbourhood policing . it would put 13 , 000 police and police community support officer back on the beat , embed in our community ; not count crime , but solve problem and work with local community to tackle and deter crime . that would be fund through a police efficiency and collaboration programme , save £ 360 million through centralised standard - set for procurement and increase collaboration on share service and specialist function . the Minister say in his statement that he want to reduce inefficiency , so that be a two - for - one for he : more efficiency and more officer on the frontline . why be we not see those plan from the Government today ? to conclude , if the Minister expect garland from colleague , he will not get they from Labour . he tell the british people repeatedly that they have never have it so good on crime and policing . that rhetoric do not match reality or the public experience . as a result , this settlement be in line with those that precede it for more than a decade . it will not deliver . the Government be wrong and the public know it . I know that sometimes the public and people in the police family lose hope ; all I would say be that , if we all pull together , we can make sure this be the last police grant settlement that this Government make . I be delighted to be able to contribute to this debate . in the interest of transparency , let I first make the House aware that an immediate member of my family be a serve police officer with Devon and Cornwall Police — and very proud of they we be . I also put on the record my huge thank and appreciation to all police officer across Devon and Cornwall , particularly those who work out of St Austell and Newquay police station . I have see at first hand their dedication and they have help I a number of time when I have need it . they do an incredible job and I be very grateful to they . I very much welcome the uplift in funding that have be make available to police across England and Wales today , and I be particularly grateful that the funding make available for Devon and Cornwall Police be be increase by 7 . 1 % , which be high than the national average and go some way to close the historical funding gap for our police . we be use that money incredibly well in Devon and Cornwall , particularly in recruit more police officer . the number of police officer in Devon and Cornwall be now at an all - time record of 3 , 610 , an uplift of 470 above the 2019 figure . I have also be make aware that , as oppose to some other part of the country , we have do so well in recruitment that more funding have be make available to enable we to recruit an additional 71 officer , so the number be only go to get high . that be hugely welcome , and I pay tribute to the hard work of our police and crime commissioner , Alison Hernandez , for the leadership and work that she have put in to get we to such healthy police number . however , one thing that continually concern I whenever I go out on patrol and observe the police on the frontline be the amount of time they spend deal with issue that be not police matter . far too often they have to pick up the slack for other part of the public sector that be not step up and fulfil their role , be that mental health support , other part of the NHS or social service . one thing the Minister could do to support our frontline police officer across the country be to work with other part of the public sector and other Government Departments to ensure that they be do everything they can to fulfil their duty , and not just take the default position of fall back on the police to pick up the slack every time . that be one thing that I know be put huge pressure on frontline policing , take officer away from the job that the public actually want and expect they to be do : keep we safe . Devon and Cornwall Police actually police the large force area , in term of land mass , of any force in England . we also have the long coast and the long road network , at 13 , 000 mile , of any police force in England . for all those reason , Devon and Cornwall Police face a hugely challenging job police two of the most rural county in the country . in Cornwall , over 40 % of people live in community of few than 3 , 000 people , and we have no town with population above 25 , 000 people , which demonstrate just how rural and sparsely population our force area be . that have an impact on the police ' s ability to deliver the service that we expect of they . tourism have an additional impact on Cornwall and Devon . our average population in the tourist season increase by 7 % , although that rise be concentrate in a relatively small number of area . town such as Newquay see their population go up by six or seven time the resident population in peak tourism season , so the number of incident to which the police be expect to respond inevitably go up significantly . the situation in Devon and Cornwall be similar to that in Sussex , where an influx of people to Camber Sands can mean that there be 25 , 000 people on the beach . that obviously make police resource difficult . do my hon . friend agree that , when it come to police funding , we need to consider the geography of the area and the specific and absolute need , not the relative need ? my hon . friend make precisely the point that I be about to make . in Devon and Cornwall , our geography and the number of tourist we welcome every year mean that our police force face a unique challenge in deliver the service that we require of they . another point that I continually make be that in Cornwall , a narrow peninsula with only one neighbour mainland county , we have to build in our own resilience as we can not rely on other area to turn up quickly to help we out . that need to be reflect in the funding formula . I be greatly encourage that the Government have recognise that and have commit to review the funding formula by take into consideration geography , sparseness , rurality and the impact of tourism . I urge the Minister to do all he can to get the review carry out and in place in order to adjust the funding . we will certainly take no lesson from Labour about fund police in rural area . it be under the last Labour Government that rural area be virtually abandon by the funding formula . the formula be tweak so that all that money would go towards densely populated urban area , even though deliver service in rural area cost far more , so we will take no lesson from Labour on that . I urge the Minister to do all he can to ensure that the police funding review be carry out and implement as quickly as possible so that the funding gap with which we have have to deal for so long be narrow , and rural area such as Devon and Cornwall get the police funding that they rightly deserve . rise — Order . before I call the next member to speak , I should clarify something . as the House will have note , the Order Paper note that the police grant report and the local government finance instrument have not yet be consider by the Select Committee on Statutory Instruments . I have now be inform that the Committee meet a short time ago . it have consider the instrument and have not draw they to the attention of the House . to interpret what I have just say for the sake of anyone listen , that mean that we can proceed as normal and do not have to take any further step that we be not already plan to take . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be most grateful for that clarification . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire for set out the Government ' s proposal for the police fund settlement for 2024 - 25 . Suffolk be due to receive an increase in core funding of 6 . 7 % , and hotspot response finance of £ 1 million . those settlement be welcome , but I will briefly raise three issue , two of which have already be address in some detail . the first of those issue be the funding review . at present , Suffolk constabulary be the fourth low fund force in the UK , and as such , we be look for the long - promise funding review to be carry out as soon as possible . many of the challenge that we face be similar to what we have hear be happen in Cornwall . at Home Office question on 27 November , I ask my right hon . friend for an update on the progress of the review . he respond by state : " I completely accept the need for a new police funding formula " and say that his team have be " work on it extremely hard , with colleague across government " and that he hope " to have something … to say on the topic shortly " . — [ Official Report , 27 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 545 . ] it be in that context that I would be most grateful for a further update on the progress of the review and on when we can expect the draft proposal for the new formula . there be a worry , as we have hear , that the review be be kick into the long grass . I hope that the Minister can allay that concern in sum up . let I come to my second point . for police and crime commissioner such as Tim Passmore in Suffolk , budgeting present considerable challenge . he and other pcc be entitle to expect consistency in Government commitment . in that respect , the change in funding for the safe street initiative be disappointing . initially , the Home Office offer Suffolk £ 1 . 4 million . it then reduce that by £ 400 , 000 , and it be now take away a furth £ 180 , 000 . that approach be , I suggest , unfair , and it penalise small force such as Suffolk constabulary , which , through no fault of its own , now face a funding gap without any explanation or justification be give . I therefore ask my right hon . friend to review that decision , which affect not just Suffolk , but force all across the country . finally , as we have hear , this be not just about money . a policeman ' s lot can be make considerably easy and , I hope , happy , if red tape be reduce . in that regard , I applaud the work of Ben Hudson , the secretary and treasurer of the Suffolk Police Federation , who be ably support by my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) in their campaign to amend the Data Protection Act 2018 so as to mitigate the impact of the bureaucratic burden of evidence redaction that be impose on police officer when they seek charge decision from the Crown Prosecution Service . a further amendment to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill be be table in the other place by the noble Baroness Morgan . I urge the Government to consider this matter closely and do all they can to accept those measure . do so would free up thousand of police hour every year , as pre - charge redaction would not be require , and would enable chief constable to well utilise allocate budget , which , as we have hear today , be restrict and not quite as bountiful as we would all hope . I hope that , in wind up , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , can allay the concern that I have express : we need that long - overdue funding review ; we need funding commitment to be adhere to and keep ; and finally , as I have say , please , let there be less red tape . it be a pleasure to wind up this short but perfectly form debate on police funding , and I be grateful to the member who have speak in it . before I respond to the point that have be raise , I want to offer my own personal word of thank and appreciation for the police officer , all the staff and the volunteer who work tirelessly to keep we safe and run towards danger when everybody else be leave the scene . we be fortunate to have they on our side . I do not propose to repeat the headline part of the settlement that we be debate today . I will simply say that our investment of £ 11 . 4 billion be a significant commitment to policing , which go to the heart of our three priority for the police . the first be personnel : we have deliver ahead of time on our commitment to recruit 20 , 000 police officer in this Parliament , and today ' s funding will continue to support and properly resource the 149 , 000 police officer who be employ in England and Wales . it will also allow we to give they a 7 % pay rise on average , which be consistent with the recommendation of the Police Remuneration Review Body . the second priority be , of course , public protection . whether shadow minister like it or not , we be proud of the progress that , accord to the crime survey for England and Wales , we have make since 2010 . I know that they do not like that survey , but the Office for National Statistics — which the public be entitle to rely on — have describe it as " the good estimate of long - term trend in crime against the household population . " Shadow Ministers can not get away from the fact that that survey say that overall crime level have more than halve since 2010 . all offensive weapon crime have come down by more than 52 % , and theft , include domestic burglary , have halve — in fact , domestic burglary be now at the low level on record . I listen carefully to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) . I say this with respect : he give three example of where he assert the Government have fail , but two of those concern the retail environment . I accept that there have be an issue with retail theft , but he have to give two example that be focus on retail crime because he do not want to get into domestic burglary . be it not serious , then ? of course it be serious , but it have fall so much . my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) quite properly talk about homicide , the maximum high - harm offence . homicide rate have fall since 2010 , but we be make progress every year : they have fall by 10 % in the past 12 month alone . our third priority be performance . the Government make no apology for seek to drive improvement and efficiency ; one such efficiency be the partnership between the police and the BlueLight commercial exercise that have already save over £ 170 million , but we be continue to drive efficiency through technological advancement in area such as detection . my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South give the example of facial recognition technology , which have be so successful in his own constituency . there be also imagery and well intelligence , and we be improve the performance of police officer themselves through the deployment of specialist train officer for the most sensitive crime , such as rape . More than 2 , 000 specialist train officer will be deploy across all 43 force in England and Wales by April of this year . I will now address some of the point that be make by hon . member , start with my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) . first , he be correct , and it be good to see , that police number in his constituency have rise : they be north of 3 , 650 in Devon and Cornwall . he be also right to mention the fact that so much police time have historically be consume by deal with mental health problem , and I hope I can provide he with some reassurance . there be now a national roll - out of a scheme call Right Care , Right Person , which be effectively a toolkit that be very successfully pilot in 2021 by Humberside police . it mean that police will not ordinarily attend a mental health incident : there be an exception when there be a possibility of a referral under section 3 of the Mental Health Act 1983 , but other than that , they will not be involve . it be estimate that on a nationwide basis , that could save 1 million hour of police officer time in any year . my hon . Friend also make some very valid point about geography and the special requirement of police in rural area , which Labour have never fully or adequately deal with . the reason — I say this very respectfully — be that very few Labour mp represent rural area , and there be a consistent ignorance of the kind of crime that be specific to rural environment . in his very good speech , my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) acknowledge that Suffolk constabulary have receive a percentage increase . I listen carefully to what he say about the safe street programme and the £ 500 , 000 reduction , but I would gently point out to he that overall , Suffolk constabulary be get an increase of £ 11 million in its budget . what he have refer to involve only a small number of officer , but I promise to take his point away and get back to he on it . to conclude , we could not be clear : public protection be our priority . we have deliver on it , and we will always stand on the side of the law - abide majority and support the police . we will take the fight to the criminal again and again , even as their nefarious practice evolve . this government will always ensure that police have the resource , power and capability to do their crucial work , and this settlement underline our endure commitment to strong and effective policing in England and Wales . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Police Grant Report ( England and Wales ) 2024 – 25 ( HC 482 ) , which be lay before this House on 31 January , be approve . local Government Finance [ Relevant Documents : Third Report of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , financial distress in local authority , HC 56 . ] I beg to move , that the Local Government Finance Report ( England ) 2024 – 25 ( HC 318 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . with this we shall consider the follow motion : that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Principles ) ( England ) Report 2024 – 25 ( HC 319 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Alternative Notional Amounts ) ( England ) Report 2024 – 25 ( HC 320 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . today , we be confirm the major part of the settlement announce in December , as well as reiterate the £ 600 million additional funding boost announce in January . local government have welcome the extra money as important in offer the ability to provide further support to child , particularly those with special educational need and disability , while also be mindful of the increase demand for social care . government always need to take tough decision , and despite the suggestion of some in this place , there be always a balance to be strike : infinite worthy demand , but finite resource . none the less , we recognise that it be important to support local government in the face of increase demand for service and the rise inflation and cost that be the legacy of the war in Ukraine and instability in the middle east . that be exactly what we be seek to do . in recognition of those challenge , I be pleased to announce a settlement total nearly £ 65 billion for local authority in England for the next financial year . the settlement include an increase in core spending power of up to £ 4 . 5 billion compare with 2023 - 24 ; a £ 1 . 2 billion uplift to the social care grant , which can be use for child ' s or adult service subject to individual local priority ; an increase in the funding guarantee , which will ensure that all authority see a minimum increase in core spending power of 4 % before any local decision be make on council tax rate ; additional support for rural council through a £ 15 million increase to the rural service delivery grant ; fund worth £ 3 million to support authority experience significant difficulty because of internal drainage board levy cost ; and additional funding for the Isle of Wight and the Isles of Scilly , in recognition of their circumstance and their physical separation from the mainland . as a result , available funding for local government in England will rise by 7 . 5 % in cash term for 2024 - 25 . I be most grateful for the Minister ' s statement , and I be also grateful for the uplift in funding for the Island . as I understand it , that be high than average — we be most grateful — and that take place after meeting between I and Ministers . I be also grateful that they have specifically mention and accept the additional cost that the Isle of Wight face by dint of be an island , and that we be in effect now catch up with other part of or other island in the UK . I be very keen for this uplift to be see as permanent , and then to be build on . will Ministers meet I to discuss way in which we can ensure that the uplift for the Island and the recognition of island status be now fix ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for , while I have be in post look at this portfolio specifically , his invite to the Isle of Wight , his support in facilitate that and his continued work on behalf of the Island . the change , which have be bring forward today by the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , and the Secretary of State , be in direct recognition of the work he have do , and I be grateful for it . I know that the Under - Secretary will meet my hon . friend to continue that discussion . very briefly , be the Minister comfortable with our persist in protect our constituent from the local council they elect with the referendum threshold ? when be we go to allow local authority to govern , and to suffer the consequence if the electorate disagree with what they have do ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise a very philosophical important point , which be about the balance between local and national Government , and he be absolutely right to raise it . it be a long - stand principle of our local government settlement that we allow local council the flexibility to be able to make decision about the finance in their local area , while also take a general view that there be cap in place on how far they can go . I will come on to say more about that in my speech , but he raise an important point , and I know it will have be note by my hon . friend the Under - Secretary . with available funding for local government in England rise by 7 . 5 % in cash term for the come financial year , that significant increase will allow council to continue to deliver local service . thank to the funding guarantee , all authority will see an increase of at least 4 % , before any council tax increase be take into account . we continue to monitor the financial health of all council on a regular basis , use a range of datum as well as extensive direct engagement . example of significant financial failure in local government remain low , but we will take action where necessary . we will always be ready to speak to council should that be necessary , and should any have concern about their ability to manage their finance or pressure that they have not plan for . we do not just provide funding through the settlement . separately , we be proud that there be £ 15 billion of taxpayer funding in a suite of complementary levelling - up project that will help grow local economy , create local job , improve local transport , provide local skill training and support local business , make real difference to real people ' s life in community all across the country . since 2021 , the levelling - up fund have be change community across the United Kingdom , with £ 4 . 8 billion of taxpayer fund allocate to 271 project , kick - start regeneration and fund vital project across the UK . our levelling - up partnership be deliver regeneration , and 12 investment zone be drive innovation all across the country . in addition , there be £ 1 . 1 billion for 55 leave - behind town through the long - term plan for town , which be revive high street and tackle antisocial behaviour , and more than 250 venue be to be save through the community ownership fund . I know I speak for the whole ministerial team when I say that we cherish our close work relationship with local government partner . every year , we have the opportunity , through consultation on the provisional settlement , to listen to they even more keenly , along with the public and right hon . and hon . member , on the funding proposal for the come financial year . the number of response be particularly high this year at 267 . the Under - Secretary , who be the Minister for local government — he be sit beside I — engage personally with over 90 member and local government leader . we be grateful to all who respond , and I pay tribute to the work my hon . friend do in listen . it be after listen to these view that the Secretary of State announce in January an additional £ 500 million to bolster social care budget , which be a key concern for council . we have hear about and listen to council in relation to pressure on social care service , particularly for child , which we know have increase . the £ 500 million uplift to the social care grant , announce on 24 January , can be use for child ' s or adult service , subject to local priority . that be on top of the £ 1 billion in additional grant funding for social care in 2024 - 25 confirm at the provisional settlement in December . overall , this mean that , in the next financial year , local authority with social care responsibility will receive £ 5 billion through the social care grant , £ 1 . 1 billion through the market sustainability and improvement fund , £ 500 million through the discharge fund and £ 2 . 1 billion through the improved well care fund , and that be on top of their local decision about funding for social care in their area . we recognise that some council can generate more income from council tax to fund social care , so we have equalise against the adult social care precept since it be introduce , and we will continue to do that in the come financial year . as my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) indicate , we have hear through the consultation — we know this from our constant contact with local government partner — that the sector be keen for progress across the board , not just in authority with social care responsibility . we will support all tier of government , so we have announce an uplift of the funding guarantee propose at the provisional settlement . this mean that every council will see a 4 % increase in its core spending power before any local decision be make about council tax . we have also hear about the particular impact in rural area , which be why we have announce a £ 15 million increase to the rural service delivery grant . that be make available a total of £ 110 million of taxpayer ' money , in the second successive year of above inflation increase . in recognition of the unique circumstance face our island authority and their physical separation from the mainland , we be increase funding to the Isle of Wight and the Isles of Scilly . however , we be clear — I do not hesitate to repeat it today — that this money be for the frontline service on which our community rely . it be not to be put aside for later use , nor waste on myriad council hobby - horse and scheme . taxpayer deserve value for money . so many of those involve in the settlement — so many part of the community and so many part of the local government sector — do that brilliantly already . the small number that do not are on clear notice this afternoon that they must do so . to ensure that , we be ask all local authority to produce productivity plan , which will encourage they to set out how they will improve service performance and reduce wasteful expenditure . turn to council tax , we continue to strike the balance between give council flexibility to make local decision , to meet local pressure and support the most vulnerable , and continue to seek to protect council tax payer from excessive increase . in any constitutional settlement that divide responsibility between central and local government , it must follow that local government have the ability and the responsibility to raise some of its own fund , and that it be hold to account for the decision it make to do that . so this year , as in previous year , we have set core referendum principle of up to 3 % , plus 2 % for the adult social care precept . at the same time , it remain the case that some council reserve be significantly high than prior to the pandemic . for some , that will be for good reason , but a number of council have reserve well in excess of 100 % of their core spending power , and the late datum show that about half of all local authority have see their unallocated reserve grow since the 2019 - 20 financial year . it be for those council to decide the appropriate balance between council tax increase and the use of reserve to fund service , depend on their local context . however , I very much hope that they will consider their unallocated reserve , and I hope that appropriate question be ask in each locality where that apply by those who be interested . at the provisional local government finance settlement , in consideration of the significant failure of a number of council — Thurrock Council , Slough Borough Council and Woking Borough Council historically — and their need for ongoing exceptional financing support , the Government propose that bespoke council tax referendum principle should apply . we be today confirm those principle , with a core council tax referendum of 8 % for Thurrock and Slough and of 10 % for Woking . as council with adult social care responsibility , Thurrock and Slough will also be able to use the 2 % adult social care precept , and the council can make use of the additional flexibility provide to support their financial recovery . at the provisional local government finance settlement , the Department set out that council could seek additional support from the Government via the exceptional support framework . as part of that process , the Government be prepared to consider representation from council on council tax provision . in recognition of the scale and nature of the council ' s failing , and its precarious financial situation , the Government have decide not to oppose a request from Birmingham City Council for the flexibility to increase council tax by an additional 5 % above referendum principle , to start pay for the historic failure of the Labour council . we have hear request from devolved authority about the benefit of tax be retain in the area where it be raise . the trailblazer deal with Greater Manchester and the west midland be unprecedented in their reach , and include a significant transfer of fiscal power . sixty per cent of England be now cover by a devolution deal , which be up 20 % since the levelling - up White Paper be publish . we will continue to expand and deepen local devolution in England through the devolution framework and the work of the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) . finally , I wish to make a general point about how local government be finance . many right hon . and hon . member , as well as colleague in the sector , have emphasise the need for reform in the system — I hear that when I be cover this brief — particularly of the funding formula . we have hear those concern loud and clear . today we continue to restate our commitment to reform and modernise the local government finance settlement and system in the next Parliament , to deliver the most effective financial settlement for council — [ Laughter . ] I hear noise from the Opposition Benches . if Opposition Members have want to say that at the beginning of this Parliament , when covid start and when we ask our local authority to do the most extraordinary thing , that would have be an interesting position for the Labour party have it be in government at the time . we take decision that be necessary at the time . we be restate our commitment to reform . that be what a sensible , proportionate and reasonable Government do , and it demonstrate yet again the difference between a Labour party that be seek to play at be a government and will be unsuccessful , and the actual difficult decision that be be take every day on the Government Benches . in a year that have see unprecedented increase in demand for social care , housing and other vital local government service , the Government have listen and be provide more support . the above - inflation funding increase will allow council to carry on deliver the local service on which we all depend . because local authority must be accountable to local people , we be put in place way to ensure that they be work effectively and efficiently . we have a long - term economic plan that be work . we be support local council with what be need , and ensure that they spend wisely . that be exactly what the Conservatives have do throughout this time and what we will continue to do , and I commend the settlement to the House . today should and could have be the day when the Government , after 14 year in power , finally fix the crisis in local government . after a lost decade , they could and should have use today to turn the tide on the unsustainable and grow crisis in adult social care , child ' s service and homelessness service , and finally to end the postcode lottery for those vital service that create the clean , green and safe community in which work people deserve to live in return for the now record taxis that they pay under this Conservative Government . after six year of single - year settlement , which start well before covid , today could and should have be the day when the Government bring forward a sustained multi - year settlement , but the Government have fail on every test . council of all political stripe up and down the country , cover city , town and county , be be force to the edge of survival . we know that council be the first responder , and often the last line of defence for our community . that they have manage to keep thing go for so long be testament to their duty and public service . I thank each and every one , every councillor of every party and every council worker , for the work they do for million of people up and down the country . we owe they a debt of gratitude . from waste management to maintain road and park , from provide housing assistance to support local business , council be at the forefront of ensure that community can thrive and realise their full potential . contrast that civic responsibility with a Government who seem happy treat local government as a political scapegoat than as an equal partner . what support be council receive in this settlement ? six hundred million pound recycle from elsewhere , and a continuation of the begging - bowl culture that continue on a never - end loop , like groundhog day . in one of the bad cost of live crisis for generation , it be a shameful indictment that the council tax bill be set to top £ 57 billion under the Conservatives , which be more than twice than under the last Labour Government . it stand as a matter of fact that people be pay more and more for less and less . alongside the big tax burden in peacetime , that add to the struggle household already feel when manage mortgage , food and energy bill . on top of that , work people will be slap with yet another Tory bombshell . in fact , council tax bill under the Tories be set to rise by £ 13 billion over the next five year . it be clear as day that council have be hollow out , and they be now be tell once again that the only solution be to raise council tax more and more . the Institute for Government show that core spending power will still be 10 % low , even after today ' s uplift , than before the Tories come to power . that do not even take into account the rocket demand in social care , child ' s service and homelessness service . ad hoc injection of cash , while perhaps offer modest relief , be a painful repeat of the stick plaster politic that have leave the country , our politic , and our public service much weak . the Government ' s reckless approach be undermine the fundamental of local public service . stability be need to ensure that old people get the high - quality care they deserve and that council be in the good place to give child the protection they need , to help put an end to the crisis in homelessness that the Government be perpetuate , and to keep our public service run where this Government have hollow they out elsewhere in the system . this Government ' s approach be short - term and reckless , and it save nothing . in the end the cost be huge , and we can see the consequence today . it can not be right that there be more section 114 notice last year than in the previous 30 year combine . that be not a coincidence ; it be the result of a toxic mixture of the Government ' s financial mismanagement , and a deep and worrying lack of accountability . to make matter bad , the early warning system that could have raise the red flag early have be dismantle . in 2010 , the coalition Government announce the closure of the Audit Commission . it be not without its fault and certainly be not universally well receive , but remove the early warning system in its entirety be clearly go to set up problem for the future . council be leave to inspect financial risk themselves , rather than seek value for money or even address issue of what be now clearly a broken audit market . the fact speak for themselves : in 2022 - 23 , just five of the 467 council deliver their audit account on time . that be just 1 % of council submit audit account before the deadline . the hon . Gentleman mention audit account . do he have an opinion on the audit of Plymouth City Council ' s account ? I be delighted to go to Plymouth on Friday , and debate the matter with the labour leader of the council . it be clear that the Labour council ' s account have not be able to be audit , because there be a question mark over £ 70 million be move from capital spend to a pension pot . do he have a view to share on his party ' s situation in Plymouth ? I thank the hon . member for invite I to celebrate the success of Labour in Plymouth , and the work that our councillor be do , after take back control , to show leadership to the city . Plymouth be a proud place , and the Labour party there be make a huge difference . he may want to consult those on his party ' s Front Bench when it come to the submission of audit account , because there be an issue to reconcile here . only 1 % of council have submit account ; how do we break through that bottleneck , give that the market be not respond ? the Government will have to respond to that soon rather than later . I politely advise he , if I may , to withhold his criticism , and to wait to see what his government ' s approach will be . I suspect he may be slightly embarrassed . the Select Committee have write a report recently on local authority audit , which be a complete mess , with only 1 % of account do on time . this be not a party political matter , as council right across the country be struggle with this issue . one factor be low audit fee . another be the complication of pension fund valuation , which be hold many account up . the likelihood be that the only way to get through that will be to agree account that be qualified because it have not be possible to confirm pension fund valuation . I hope that party political point be not make about council and the qualification of account . first , I thank the Select Committee for the work that it have do in this area . last week , we receive the report " financial distress in local authority " , and a great deal of work have be do to understand the detail and the contribute factor . there be no doubt that the accountancy regime for pension fund be a contributory factor to the delay in some case . we need to know that council be financially resilient , and that the financial settlement be robust . where there be issue , an early warning system should allow they to be pick up early , so that if an intervention be require , it be make at the right time and in the right way , whereas now , section 114 notice be be issue at a rate not see for the past three decade . that can not stand , and it be not sustainable . we look forward to the Government ' s response on that . on the wide point about cross - party agreement , I think all of we and the Local Government Association , which be cross - party , would welcome with open arm the day when party politic be take out of local government finance , and when there be consensus on how to fund local public service . I sincerely hope that after the next election , when those on the Government Front Bench be in opposition , they join we in that call , but let we wait and see . the Government will know , as we do , that because of the financial fragility of local council and the lack of an early warning system , it now take only a small shock to send town hall into financial meltdown ; the resilience just be not there . the Local Government Association have do a fantastic job in lead from the front and ensure that adequate support be supply when need , but it can not be expect to lead the charge on its own , nor should it be expect to . council need certainty and stability . they need to have the fear and anxiety of financial bankruptcy remove , so that they can continue to deliver for local community . council need to be give adequate time to plan ahead for the fiscal year . labour would support local council where the Government have fail . single - year settlement do not provide the certainty or stability need for plan ahead . we recognise that council need something more than that to end this disjointed approach . labour will embed transparency in the relationship between local and national Government , and move towards multi - year funding settlement for council that allow they to plan well ahead . we will give town and city the tool that they need to foster local growth and deliver well public service . should we be privileged enough to form the Government after the next election , Labour will empower council to get on with the job that they have be elect to do . finally , we will see a radical transfer of power away from Westminster and into the hand of the british people through the landmark take back control Act , but we will not wait ; where we can accelerate improvement , we will . we want a new relationship between central and local government as genuine partner in power . we want to see the right power in the right place . our community be resilient , and so be our council , but we need to do far more to work , hand in hand , as true partner go forward . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate , which for I be the highlight of the parliamentary calendar . relentlessly , year after year , I have contribute to the debate with great fondness . last year , I remember vividly the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend and next - door neighbour the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , advocate , from the Back Benches , for a great rural tsar . of course , nowadays we have the great rural tsar sit on the Front Bench ; I be pleased about that . I be also pleased that the debate have three hour of protect time , which be valuable . none the less , I will try not to take up too much time , Mr Deputy Speaker . each year , I stand up in this place to make the case not just for rural West Dorset , and Dorset as a whole , but rural Britain , in what I believe be some of our most important discussion and decision about enable the capability of local government . Most year , I have stand here and protest that we in Dorset have be in need of our fair share of government finance ; indeed , in many previous year , we have not receive that . but today be not d - day . today be S - day , because my hon . friend and neighbour — knight in shine armour that he be — be charge over Bulbarrow hill and through the Chalke valley to Dorset Council in Dorchester , to deliver a £ 4 million boost to its finance . that be to be greatly welcome . my other neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Richard Drax ) , who can not be with we as he be away on parliamentary business with the Defence Committee , have ask I to reflect his view , so that my hon . friend the Minister understand full well that we very much appreciate this in Dorset , after many year of campaign for a great and fair share . however , it be important to note that we still need to address the fundamental structural issue that we face in local government funding . I recognise that that be a vast task , which will take considerable work . I hope that , in wind up , my hon . friend the Minister can give not just I but a number of colleague who be in their place real confidence that the Government intend to achieve that in relatively short order , and that we will ensure that a fair share of taxpayer ' money be allocate to where it be require . the £ 110 million through the rural service delivery grant be much welcome . that funding of up to £ 3 . 2 million for some area — include Dorset — be much well , but be that enough to deal with the issue we have to face ? from discussion that I have have in the House before the debate , I have a real sense that it be not . the additional £ 1 . 5 billion for social care be enormously welcome . a third of the community that I represent in West Dorset be over 65 , so it have additional social care requirement . be we in Dorset really get our fair share of £ 1 . 5 billion , give that we be talk about a few million pound ? that be a question for we to ask . in the wide context of make the case for rural Britain , I remind my hon . friend and neighbour the Minister , and the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , that we have have high - energy debate , it be fair to say , about local government finance with both of they . I would like to reiterate some of the unfairness that remain in the " urban versus rural financing " debate . rural area still receive some 59 % less per head in settlement funding than their urban counterpart ; in real term , that be about £ 111 . rural resident will also pay on average 20 % per head more in council tax than their urban counterpart — although we should probably take Somerset to one side in that assumption . rural resident receive on average 13 % less per head in social care support overall than resident of urban area , which be very important when it come to provide that care in constituency such as mine and those of my hon . friend . West Dorset constituency , which I be proud to represent , have an enormous county boundary with the county of Somerset . many of my constituent use service and facility in Somerset , and vice versa . it be fair to say that over the past month , many of my constituent and people in Somerset have look with absolute horror at how the propose council tax increase will affect they . for the benefit of the House , I would like to clarify the extent of those increase in real term . those live Yeovil can expect a 90 % increase in the town council precept , while those live in Taunton , the county town of Somerset , can expect a 200 % increase . in real term , that be an increase of between £ 109 and £ 277 per annum in the town council precept alone . I be well aware of this matter because a Somerset councillor , a liberal Democrat , work in my constituency and contribute frequently to the liberal Democrat leaflet that be share in West Dorset . I should say that he be the head of the Somerset Council audit committee , of all committee ; I can confirm that his mantra be " raise taxis and cut service " , which be definitely what be happen in Somerset . in November 2022 , the Somerset Liberal Democrats say that they need an additional £ 35 million because of a financial difficulty that they have experience . there be no reporting of any finance to the council for five month , and then , all of a sudden , out of nowhere , come a black hole of £ 100 million . I be a proud serve Somerset councillor and be fully aware of the issue Somerset be face . however , those issue have occur not just over the last nine month , under the new Somerset Council ; they have be very long draw out . indeed , between 2010 and 2016 , Somerset face one of the long council tax freeze — I think it be the long for any council across the country — under the last conservative administration , which lead to huge pressure on funding in Somerset . indeed , under conservative administration , the council be nearly draw into bankruptcy in 2019 due to pressure on adult social care . would the hon . Member agree that the issue be not a party political stance , as he be try to make it , but the legacy leave by a previous Tory administration ? the issue that we face in local government go across all colour . I thank the hon . Lady very much for her intervention . she and I be frequently in Westminster Hall debate these matter with great passion and vigour . I know that she feel as strongly as I do about these matter , but it will probably come as no surprise to she to hear that I do not agree with her conclusion . previous conservative administration who run Somerset Council leave a considerable legacy in term of reserve . since the Liberal Democrat Council be elect and start serve last year , a number of decision have be make across the board that have end up in the lap of council tax payer in Somerset . I be alarmed about that , because ahead of the Dorset local election , a number of constituent in West Dorset look with great horror at what be happen in Somerset , and wonder what be truly the case . rise — I have not quite finish reply to the hon . Lady ' s previous intervention . I would like far to put into context the contrast between the finance of Somerset and Dorset . last year , we in Dorset receive just £ 700 , 000 in revenue support grant ; Somerset receive £ 8 million . our social care grant last year be £ 22 million ; in Somerset , it be £ 39 million . the high need block funding be just £ 48 million for Dorset ; it be £ 74 million for Somerset . the school block funding be £ 76 million for Dorset , but £ 122 million for Somerset . I could go on , but I will not . there be an enormous contrast , which have happen in relatively short order . that be what happen when the Liberal Democrats run the council in Somerset , compare with a long - stand and financially well - run conservative council in Dorset . I thank the hon . member for allow I to intervene again . he be make some unfair point that need some context . as a Dorset Member , he will know that the council tax in Dorset be vastly high . in the local government reform back in the 1970 , Somerset be leave with most of the rural county , and follow the 1991 council tax change most of the high banding be take into Bath and Avon . we have few property in the high banded rate , so the council do not generate as much in council tax . he say that that be an issue for the Liberal Democrats , but he should remember that we be deliver on a plan to change to a unitary council that be implement by the Conservative Government against the will of people in Somerset . we have deliver more than half the £ 18 . 4 million of saving within nine month , when the full saving be expect to be deliver within three year . the Liberal Democrats in Somerset be deliver . the reality be that the liberal Democrats be not deliver on the conservative legacy . that be clear for all to see , especially those who live in Yeovil and Taunton . it will hurt people financially , as they will see hundred of pound extra on their council tax because of have a Liberal Democrat administration rather than a conservative one . my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset , be save the people of Somerset from a further 10 % council tax hike that the Liberal Democrats want to pile on they . I be very grateful to he , as be a number of colleague who be not able to be here , for say that the liberal Democrats have to be hold accountable . they have to find solution and carry through on what be a very good proposal several year ago . I hope that the people of Somerset will benefit from his good work and , in the mid to long term , the people of Dorset will benefit , too . I call the Chairman of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . let I begin by thank a few people . the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , refer to the report " financial distress in local authority " , which the Select Committee publish last week and on which I make a statement in the House last Thursday . I want to thank the staff of the Committee and our special adviser for all the work that they do in help to put the report together : it be much appreciated . I also want to thank the Local Government Association — I declare my interest as a vice - president — for all that it do for local government throughout the year , and for help we and advise we on the challenge that local government be face , not least with regard to finance . the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , be sit on the Front Bench . I want to thank he as well , not for provide enough money on this occasion — I would not go as far as that — but for be genuinely helpful and open in his willingness to be approach by member on both side of the House and to engage with local council across the country . he have also be open to discussion and an exchange of view with I , in my capacity as Chair of the Select Committee , so I thank he for the way in which he have approach this matter on a personal basis . the difficulty for council be that they be not just deal with what be happen this year ; they be also deal with the problem of the year upon year of austerity that we have see since 2010 . there be now a funding gap of £ 4 billion , which £ 600 million go nowhere near fill . in fact , the Institute for Fiscal Studies say the other day that the gap be £ 7 billion , but either way it be a much large sum than the £ 600 million that the Minister have make available . I be a little disappointed when the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety , the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Lee Rowley ) — who open the debate — begin refer to reserve again . when local government finance get into difficulty , minister always resort to say , " Councils have all this money , so why don ' t they spend it ? " I remember that when Lord Pickles be Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government , he be berate council back then for not spend all their reserve . I think that most of they be quite grateful for not have do so , in view of what have happen subsequently . some council have simply run out of money and have issue section 114 notice , while other be wary of what be come . they can see thing get bad rather than well because that be what have happen year on year , and , rightly , they be not rush to spend all their reserve at once . they be be prudent to a degree , but they can see those reserve run out in two or three year ' time , even if they be not face section 114 notice immediately . we have hear from the LGA that about 20 % of council could be face they in the next 12 month . it may not be as many as that , and everyone hope it be not , but it could be a significant number . in the last six year eight council have issue section 114 notice , effectively declare bankruptcy , whereas in the previous 18 year , none do so . it be not only individual council that be experience difficulty . the whole system be now break . that be the evidence that we be give : the Committee do not pluck the information out of thin air . we hear from council of every kind — county council , district council , metropolitan council , unitary authority and London council — and the problem be now widespread across all of they . yes , individual council have make mistake , some of which have cause they to get into difficulty , but as we look forward , we see that it be not only the council that make mistake that will get into difficulty . many will simply run out of money , and they will have no leeway to deal with any adverse consequence because their reserve will have be run down . in fact , for the most part , council have do brilliantly to survive this long . credit be due to council and councillor throughout the country who have manage to keep themselves go , and manage to make efficiency saving on a scale of which any central Government Department would be proud . local government have see big cut in its budget than any other part of the public sector . the temptation for Ministers be always to pick on council , because they can blame they from the Front Bench for the difficult choice that have be make , and do not have to claim responsibility for the cut . my own city of Sheffield have experience a 30 % cut in its spending power , and of course it have cut service . library have close in my constituency , there have be less funding for tender bus service , the grass be cut less often , and the planning department have few resource and want more because of the number of planning application be submit for the redevelopment and regeneration of the city . those be all consequence of the spending cut . this be about the two thing come together : the cut to resource and the pressure from all the thing that everyone talk about , include social care . adult social care be see as a develop problem , and it be . another way of look at it be as a great benefit , because people be live long and they be here to need the care , which be absolutely wonderful , but now child in care as a demand be rise fast even than adult social care . the Select Committee look at child with special need , their education and the cost of transport they , and there be thing that can be do there that be not just about more money . it be about look at the provision of care for child and look at council collectively provide that . we could get cost down in that way . this be also about look again at education , health and care plan . there be a feeling that sometimes the more well - educate , knowledgeable and affluent parent see the benefit of demand an almost unconstrained amount of money for certain educational provision for their child . the cost of that be go up exponentially , and those plan have to be review . of course we have to give kid with special need the education they deserve , but perhaps we ought to look at the system that be cause such a massive increase in the cost that be now occur . at the other end of this be the fact that the overall budget have be constrain as demand have go up . what about ordinary council tax payer ? they be pay 5 % extra every year . for the most part , those council tax payer do not receive adult social care , do not have a kid with special need and do not require homelessness service — another area of increase demand — yet they be be ask to pay 5 % extra . they be also see their library and bus service disappear and their street not be sweep as often . they be say , " but I ' m pay more every year and I ' m get less . " the system can not continue in the way it be . it be a challenge to the basis of democracy , which be that people feel they be pay for something and get it . here , they feel they be pay more and get less . that be not sustainable in the long term , as I think we can all see . another problem with the settlement be that it be for only one year . local government have ask repeatedly for multi - year settlement , and we get there in 2016 . Covid interfere with that , but there be no reason they could not have come back since then . we be also promise fair funding in 2016 . what have happen to it ? this settlement be base on datum that go back to the last century . that can not be right either , can it ? it really can not be right that we be allocate money base on how many people live in area so many year ago that it now make no sense because of the demographic change that have take place since . these be all issue that could have be address . they be big challenge but they could have be meet . we have not mention the public health grant today . when public health go over to local government , it be pretty well fund because it be link to NHS settlement increase . public health be really important because it look at prevention in our most deprived community , but there have be a 27 % real - term cut since it go over to local government . we do not use it enough . during covid , we should have use the expertise of the director of public health for track and trace , instead of the phone bank that be set up at national level at a cost of billion of pound . the director of public health in Sheffield , Greg Fell , have send I information about the cut that he be deal with . this be a fundamental issue of equality . public health be about help the poor community disproportionately , and that be now not happen because of those cut . yes , there be some welcome extra money for smoking cessation and for deal with people with alcohol problem , but it do not fill the gap that have be create by the cut . perhaps the Minister could have a word with the Chancellor . he probably can not offer we any more than the £ 600 million today , but perhaps he could have a look at the household support fund , which our Select Committee have just write about . in Sheffield , the fund provide 32 , 000 child who have free school meal during term time with voucher to compensate in the summer holiday . have a look at that , as local authority can not compensate for it in the current crisis . it would not take a lot simply to keep the fund go from March , when it come to an end . this be the last school holiday in which kid will get the funding . it be a small issue but , if the Minister add his voice to those of the Select Committee and many other in this House , we might be able to get a bit of movement in the Chancellor ' s upcoming statement . thing be bad , but they could get bad and probably will . the Minister say it will be for the next Parliament and , yes , it will . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities announce more than a year ago that he would ask a Minister to review council tax , and I understand that nothing have happen yet . council tax have not be touch for 30 year , and we can not explain to people move into a new build home how their council tax be calculate . it be base on the value in 1991 , before their home have not be build . we can all see that it be nonsense , so we need reform . the Minister suggest the other day , and I agree , that whoever win the election have to make local government funding , and certainly social care funding , stick for the long term . we have cross - party agreement on pension reform , and it have stick for the long term , so let we look at both those issue . I hope we can then move on . finally , what on earth be the productivity plan ? do local government not have enough work to do without have to produce another set of plan for a purpose that only the Secretary of State seem to understand ? I have read that council apparently have to stop spend on " discredit " equality , diversity and inclusion programme . can anyone tell I what a discredit equality , diversity and inclusion programme be ? who be go to decide ? do the Minister have a little list of criterion and tick box ? be he go to review all these programme , or be it just another attempt to say that council obviously have plenty of money if they be engage in these sort of programme ? they have not . in my view , council be engage in provide proper , decent and need service for their community , and there be not enough of those service because of the spending cut . I hope that in due course we can move forward to a well time for local government . our council deserve it and , even more importantly , our community deserve it too . I be grateful to the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , and to the Chancellor for listen to our concern about significant pressure on local authority , especially those with responsibility for child and adult social care . I welcome the recently announce £ 600 million of extra funding , include £ 500 million for local authority with child and adult social care responsibility . East Sussex County Council have welcome the extra £ 5 . 386 million it will receive . however , despite this extra funding , East Sussex County Council , a well - run conservative council , have report that , due to the significant pressure arise from the current economic situation and change demography and need , the financial position for the come year be the most challenging it have see in recent year . this be in direct contrast to labour - run Hastings Borough Council , whose independent auditor , Grant Thornton , say : " we have identify significant weakness arise from fund gap and unidentified saving and the council ' s approach to due diligence when undertake commercial investment which have result in a failure to achieve expect financial return . " the borough council be teeter on the brink of bankruptcy , so the Labour leader and six Labour councillor resign from the Labour party and set themselves up as the Hastings Independent party . their change of name will not absolve they of their failure and their refusal to take responsibility for the mess they get the council into . although welcome , the additional funding do not bridge East Sussex County Council ' s financial gap for 2024 - 25 , and it be for one year only . that mean that , despite previous careful budget management , the budget for the come year will still be support by a significant withdrawal from limited reserve and there remain considerable uncertainty about funding for future year . that be not a sustainable position , at both a national and local level , because available reserve would be deplete by the end of 2025 - 26 . in its budget and 2024 - 25 council plan , East Sussex County Council agree proposal to spend its £ 538 . 1 million net revenue budget on service and activity that will deliver its priority outcome , include funding to cover a range of significant demand and cost pressure be experience by service . those plan be support by a 2 . 99 % increase in council tax and 2 % adult social care levy . that decision be not make lightly , give the current pressure on household budget , but in the light of the very significant deficit the council face in the come year and beyond , it need to apply those increase in order to safeguard service as far as possible . East Sussex County Council also agree an £ 837 . 9 million , 10 - year capital programme , which include badly need investment in local road and highway structure , in reduce the council ' s carbon emission and in school place , include for child with special educational need and disability . deal with our pothole in East Sussex , especially those in Hastings and Rye , desperately need more funding from national Government , and I must emphasise that with a view to the March Budget . so we must look at how we fund the particular need and characteristic of East Sussex . there be an urgent requirement for sustainable , long - term funding to meet these need , and that must be understand by the Government , so that our resident benefit from high - quality service in the future . that mean review , develop and implement a fairer funding formula for local authority , and for the police , that reflect the actual need , as well as deprivation , geography , demographic and so on . that be especially important for local authority with coastal community , which , due to a lack of granular datum , be often leave behind . Fairer funding do not necessarily mean more Government funding — as we have hear , it have be focus on more urban area — but a redistribution or reallocation of exist resource more equitably . it be very encouraging to hear the Minister outline the plan for a fair funding formula to come soon , in the next Parliament . coastal community face unique challenge relate to their geography , demographic — often they have old population — population density and economic activity . a fair funding formula would consider those specific need , rather than apply a one - size - fit - all approach . coastal area often have diverse population , include seasonal resident and tourist . these fluctuation have an impact on service demand , infrastructure maintenance and social service . a fair formula would account for population dynamic and deprivation level in these region . coastal community be often more isolated due to their geographical location , which affect transportation , healthcare , education and access to essential service . a fairer formula would address the challenge of sparsity and ensure adequate support . coastal area require investment in flood defence , coastal erosion management and environmental protection . a fair formula would allocate fund to address those critical issue . coastal economy often rely on tourism , fishing and maritime industry . a fair funding formula would recognise the need for economic resilience and support diversification effort . a fairer funding formula be essential to ensure that local authority , especially those in coastal community , receive adequate resource to address their unique challenge , focus on actual need and serve their resident effectively . in common with many member of the House , include 40 member of the Government Benches who sign a County Councils Network letter a couple of week ago , I can report that my local council — Shropshire Council — be cut service because it be chronically underfunde . I declare my interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . it be disappointing to try to score political point about an issue that be so important and directly affect the life of so many people . Shropshire Council be run by the Conservatives and , while undoubtedly the liberal Democrats would make different political choice about how money be spend , there be no get away from the fact that the issue affect council of all type , under all party , because there be a chronic structural funding issue that we need to address . Most people in Shropshire be pay more for less because of our social care cost , which amount to 85 % of the budget . no political party will be able to solve that issue without additional help from central Government . there must be recognition of the social care crisis that be overwhelming council such as mine . it be worth reflect on the amount of central Government funding that have be award to council since 2016 - 17 . accord to the House of Commons Library , there have be a £ 5 . 75 billion decrease in real - term funding — in Shropshire , that be about £ 37 . 3 million — and compare to 2015 - 16 there be 51 . 3 % less funding per person in Shropshire from central Government . how be we go to stop people pay more for less ? I do not have the answer , and I know the leader of Shropshire Council do not have the answer either . what do that mean for people across the country ? provide few service drive inequality of all type . let we think about the example of swimming pool . the Government have say 276 local authority pool have be close since 2015 , include the Whitchurch swimming pool in my constituency , although we be lucky because that pool be be rebuild . many place be not so lucky ; people in my constituency may be without a swimming pool for year , but in some place it will be forever . if they can not get to a neighbouring town , have access to a car or pay to go to a nice private swimming pool , their child will not learn to swim . that fundamental and deep inequality , which we should avoid , be a direct consequence of poor council funding . another example in my constituency be that the civic centre in Whitchurch have have to close recently because of issue with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and asbestos . the council can not afford to either rectify or rebuild that civic centre because of the interest on the money they would have to borrow . the amount to be borrow would be about £ 7 million , so the interest would be about £ 750 , 000 a year . the council should not be in a situation where it can not provide cultural enrichment or generate economic benefit by bring people into the town centre because it can not afford that relatively small amount of additional borrowing for something so basic . as I mention , Shropshire Council be conservative - run . I have have some constructive meeting with its leader , who have be very open and say that the social care requirement will overwhelm the whole budget in future year unless something urgent be do . no amount of paperclip saving will get the council to the point where it will be able to afford our social care budget in the future . not only do we have an age population and an elderly demographic , but we be also a very rural area . the cost of deliver social care be much high in such area — a point to which other member have allude — as carer have to travel long distance between each person they be care for and so pay high fuel cost . it be much more expensive to deliver that social care . we need to look urgently at the issue of fair funding , take into account the cost of service delivery . while the £ 15 million increase in the rural service delivery grant be welcome , the total budget of £ 120 million will not touch the side of the social care issue that council in rural area face . we urgently need the Minister to work with his colleague in the Department for Health and Social Care to fundamentally reform how we fund and deliver social care . until we grasp that nettle , we will not solve the issue of local authority funding with the odd extra bit of money here and there . someone could end up in crisis just so that few council have to issue section 114 notice . I wish to touch on child ' s social care and special educational need and disability . I have an interesting conversation with a school recently about its budget . I realise that this be not a topic for this Department , but , while the money the school get to support a child on an education , health and care plan be woefully inadequate — it make a loss on each child that it be try to support — the £ 6 , 000 cost be cripple the council budget . we need to look at that , but , again I urge the Minister to consider what that mean for the life of individual people . I have a case of a young man who have just turn 16 . he have a life - limit illness and severe disability . the council have to save money and make a policy decision not to fund transport for young people over 16 with special educational need and disability , so his transport funding be cut . thankfully , we have resolve the situation for that one individual , but there will be thousand of other individual in the same position across the country , and the impact on the family be devastating . those young people need to go to a special place during the day for additional care or schooling , and their parent need to go to work . if the transport be not there , it have a fundamental and detrimental impact on the life of that family . we need to acknowledge that and find a way to solve the issue . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee report , which have already be refer to by the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , have say that SEND support be an issue that will lead council to a cliff - edge of section 144 notice , so we need to address that matter properly . I also wish to touch on the issue of housing , which affect those district and unitary council that have to deal with the problem of temporary housing . a couple of week ago , Eastbourne District Council organise an event in Westminster ; they invite council leader of all party and from all part of the country to discuss the issue of temporary housing and its impact on their budget . it be a well - attend event , with a good deal of cross - party agreement . however , I be a little disappointed not to see a Minister there to talk to those council leader . Eastbourne be spend 48 % of its budget on temporary housing . that be not sustainable . even in Shropshire , which can not be count as one of the council with the most critical issue of temporary housing , we have see the number of those in temporary housing double since 2018 . it be important that the Government grasp this issue of social housing — housing for social rent — because people be live in temporary accommodation that be often unsuitable , inadequate , and not anywhere that any of we would be satisfied to live in . the problem could be solve by invest in social housing . we have a plan to deliver 150 , 000 social house a year by the end of the next Parliament . to put that into context , it would save , accord to the House of Commons Library , £ 11 billion a year in housing benefit , which currently end up in the hand of private landlord . therefore , it make economic sense to solve this problem , and I urge the Minister to consider that . I be aware that I have repeat some of the point that other member have make . rural council be struggle to meet the need of an age population and the increase cost of deliver those service . they be struggle to plan not only with this single - year settlement , but with the fact that there be no certainty about what happen after next year . Shropshire Council be try to save £ 50 million this year . that mean £ 1 million of cut every week to service that people have pay more for , and the council do not know what it will cut next year . that be the reality . dip into reserve , use some of its capital budget for revenue , or sell off some of its asset be one - stop solution and do not solve the ongoing structural deficit into the year ahead . therefore , once a council have sell the library and spend that money on adult social care , what do it do the following year ? there be no library leave to sell . it be so important that we do not plug these gap with short - term fix . we must address the structural problem affect our council . in my meeting with the council leader , I be tell that even after a 30 % increase in council tax in Shropshire to plug the gap , people would still see a cut in service . clearly , that be unsustainable and unacceptable . let I return to this point about the difference between rural and urban council . the Rural Services Network have say that urban council get 38 % more than rural one . however , we should not be have an argument about rob Peter to pay Paul , because those urban council be in crisis as well . we need to look at the overall cost of deliver service , and find a solution to deal with the fundamental driver of increase cost . I know that the Minister have be a councillor , as have many member . regardless of their political party , no councillor have get themselves elect and put themselves on the frontline in order to charge their own resident more and deliver less . we should be considerate of individual in that situation , and address the fundamental driver of the crisis affect council lead by all party and in all part of the country . to reiterate , the issue be social care , child with special educational need and disability , and housing . I urge the Minister to work with his colleague in the relevant Departments to come up with long - term fundamental reform in those area to solve this crisis . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . there be an old saying that we can tell the state of a civilisation by the condition of its public toilet . it be often one of the service that the wide public and voter associate with local government , alongside pothole . however , as have be well reflect in the debate , local government finance be a huge part of overall Government and public sector expenditure . the vast majority of it — around 75 % of the average local authority ' s budget — go not on public toilet , library or pothole , but on the care of the most vulnerable people in our society . all of it be hugely influential on the quality of life of our constituent , because it affect everything from education to the build environment , and thing such as park and sport facility , which be incredibly important in people ' s day - to - day life . in that context , it be important to start by recognise the positive news in the statement : the recognition by Government that on the core statutory service around adult and child ' s care , cost pressure be become unsustainable . that have be acknowledge with a significant injection of extra cash . there will be a huge debate about whether that money be sufficient to address the concern , but it demonstrate that the Government recognise the impact that unsustainable cost pressure be have , and be address they . of course , it continue to create pressure that legislation on the setting of council tax require local authority to consult with resident in the autumn , around October , before council tax be set by law the follow February . it be quite late in the day for we to be factor in the additional funding announcement , welcome as they be . I reiterate the call from both side of the Chamber that the early we can get any of these announcement into the system , and the more they can be structure into a multi - annual financial settlement , the more efficient the use of those resource and the great the benefit to our constituent will be . it be always immensely challenging to run around try to get road contractor to mend some extra pothole at the tail end of the financial year , but if we know that extra money be come down the track we can invest in such thing as jet patcher , which have be use in both Hillingdon and Harrow for many year , as a means of proactively get out there and deal with pothole repair before the condition of the road deteriorate any far . I will pick up on a couple of issue in a little more detail , some of which have be touch on and some of which I hope will be fresh to the Chamber . the first be the impact that deficit on the dedicated school grant high - need block have on the funding announcement that we be debate . for many year , not just before 1991 and the setting of the council tax band but since the early inception of business rate , the funding of education have be base on the business rate take from a give education authority ' s area . that carry through today in the form of the dedicated school grant , and it be why we see such differential funding rate for education from local authority area to area . however , around half of local authority now have significant deficit on the dedicated school grant . while the dedicated school grant , and the education budget generally , sit with the Department for Education , for the purpose of local government law it have to be cover by the annual balance requirement that be cover when council tax be set by the give local authority each February . if there be a substantial deficit on that budget , which be pretty much entirely under the control of the Department for Education , then significant saving have to be make in the general fund , which today ' s statement cover , to make up for it . that have be deal with in recent year by an annual renewal of a disregard , which essentially say to the accountant and monitor officer in local authority , " you simply have to allow the DfE to carry this forward , and don ' t allow it directly to impact on your council tax every year . " however , there be no absolute certainty about the long - term position with the impact of the dedicated school grant . while the effort be make by local authority , borrow against their own revenue budget to fund an expansion of capital investment to create more SEND school place — the subject of a Westminster Hall debate by my constituency neighbour , hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) this afternoon — will begin to have an impact in bring those cost down , it remain a significant financial risk to local authority . it would be helpful to hear , from the Minister today if possible , but certainly from the Government before too long , that that will be address and there can be some certainty for local authority on that long - term position , not least because of the impact it have on the balance hold by local authority around the country . it be great to hear the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) refer to public health , which remain a key responsibility of local authority . the covid pandemic rather bring that into the light once again , and the capacity of local authority public health team test , track and trace service , which have be there for many year , be critical to the national response to covid . it also highlight the fact that , as a country , we go into that pandemic with a population that be , on the whole , a bit less healthy than in many comparable country . continue investment in that public health function , to ensure that our child in particular be able to enjoy a well degree of general health in the future , will make we much more resilient as a country in the face of future such challenge . turn to the local government funding formula , it be important to recognise that , as all hon . member reflect , one major challenge in its impact on our constituent be the enormous historical inequity in the way the formula operate . that have a number of different manifestation . many member have talk about rural versus urban and suburban impact . have serve , alongside several other hon . member in this Chamber over the year , at the Local Government Association , that be a pretty much annual subject of lobby to Ministers , and a number of study be do on the rural / urban / suburban differential . the reason that many of those study do not see the light of day be that the conclusion be that there be not , in the end , much difference — that the challenge that arise from high degree of density , particularly the consequence for the delivery of all kind of public service , be pretty much in balance with the equivalent challenge that arise from a great degree of geographical sparsity in rural area . those study tend to look at the cost of a whole variety of public service . what be also clear , however , be that the move to significant rise in council tax will raise significantly different additional amount in different part of the country . I represent a constituency in a relatively prosperous London suburb , cover two local authority . however , even in London , with 33 local authority , we see a differential . when the last calculation be do , a 2 % rise in council tax would create , for the local authority that generate most of its money from council tax , which at the time be Richmond , an additional 1 . 8 % increase in its revenue budget , or disposable money to spend . in comparison , the City of London , which be largely dependent on government grant , would see an additional 0 . 02 % increase in its disposable income as a consequence . across the country we see that effect magnify . the ability to raise money of a local authority with a large number of band a property will be much less than that of a local authority with band g and h property , such as the constituency I represent . while it will help , therefore , it will not be a long - term solution , and we need to find a way to address the differential for the long term . I want to express my strong support for Ministers in the Department and for our Prime Minister , who come in for a bit of criticism for say he want to get to grip with the way the funding formula have historically divide up fund . I spend my time as a councillor during all but one year of the last Labour Government and then for most year of the coalition . every year be challenging , but there be enormous frustration during those year of labour government . most additional funding be not place , as we be debate today , within the core funding settlement ; it come in the form of additional grant that be route to local authority base on need that be not reflect in the statutory obligation of the local authority . a local authority for a seaside town with lot of elderly people to whom it have a statutory obligation to deliver adult social care , or a local authority in an outer London suburb with many child with significant care need to whom it have a statutory obligation , get no extra funding at all . however , city in certain part of the country — although there be perhaps genuine poverty and housing need that have to be address — often have more money than they could possibly spend . many local authority would have spend every single one of those year have to make cut to statutory service while be give additional grant for thing that be less of a priority . it be enormously welcome that the Government be begin to get to grip with that by say that the way in which the money flow must first reflect the legal obligation that Parliament have place on local authority . if we in this House say that adult and child ' s social care must be deliver to a certain standard and drive by certain cost , we must ensure that the money be flow in that direction . let I gently push back on the couple of member who mention equality . I have the joy of be a peer reviewer for the equality standard for local government during my time as a councillor . there have be criticism , or perhaps an implication , that council be waste money in that area . one reason that council do thing such as equality impact assessment be to avoid expensive legal challenge of the kind that use to be extremely common , that cost taxpayer huge amount , and that obstruct reform , particularly of social care service . if official at the town hall be ensure that contract be tender in a way that reflect the diverse need of a community and mean that they will not be tangle up in year of legal challenge base on the Human Rights Act 1998 or any other element of equality legislation , that increase the efficiency of service delivery by that local authority . we should be cautious about assume that if it come with an equality badge , it must , in some sense , be a waste of money . funding reform will be enormously welcome across the country . let I set out the key thing on which I ask the Minister to reflect as he embark on that process . first , the work that have already start , to ensure that local government funding reflect the cost driver arise from legislation pass by this House , be critical . if we say , " this must happen and must be do by local government , " we must ensure that the resource be there for the delivery of that thing , otherwise we create an unsustainable and unbridgeable gap between our constituent ’ expectation and the available funding . as the big picture of reform be take forward , I suggest that we look at the role that planning gain will play in how local authority be fund . despite economic development be an enormous priority for our Government and our country , most form of development remain a net cost to local authority . in Hillingdon , we certainly have that spell out to we starkly in respect of Heathrow airport , the campaign for expansion and the national debate about whether that be an additional benefit to UK plc . however , it be extremely clear , especially because the business rate all go to central Government , that the expansion of Heathrow airport simply create significant additional cost to the local authority . a recent study estimate that each new citizen move to a city represent an additional cost of £ 15 , 000 per annum to its public service , after all the benefit , include the tax that they pay , be account for . as development proceed , we must ensure that our constituent see a real benefit , so that local authority , and member of Parliament — instead of stand up in this House and say , " we want more housing and more economic development , " before appear on leaflet in the constituency oppose it all — can look their voter in the eye and say genuinely , " if we get this new factory , it will be disruptive , but the money from it will mean that we get a new bus service or an improved GP service . " the Minister will be look at a lot of detail , but I ask he to reflect in particular on the impact of fund temporary accommodation cost from local authority ’ general fund . the housing revenue account be ringfence , and we know that that comprise both the rent that be pay by local authority tenant and several other funding stream . however , the fact that it be ringfence and often significantly in profit have encourage government in the past to look at it as , for example , a source of funding borrowing to invest in housing . the temporary accommodation challenge that we face — especially because of the large number of people arrive in the UK over fairly short period of time , exacerbate some pre - exist challenge — be significant and acute . I urge the Minister to look at whether some additional flexibility around the housing revenue account could begin to relieve some of the pressure on the general fund refer to in the motion . I finish my remark by thank the people who serve in all local authority , in particular those who serve as councillor in my constituency and lead my two local authority . the feedback that I receive from constituent , despite all the potential gloom and doom about local government , continue to be extremely positive and be often improve : people see that their street be become clean and their environment be be care for . that be incredibly important to they — often far more important than the issue we be debate in this House — and we owe those councillor a huge debt of thank as fellow elect politician . it be always a pleasure to listen to the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , and to all hon . member who have make the case for the real reform we be seek from the Minister today . I appreciate his listen to the debate . City of York Council be a small authority , but like so many , it be on its knee . the last Lib Dem - Green administration drain the reserve , and therefore real pressure have be put on the new Labour administration . I be grateful to Councillor Claire Douglas , who have take up the leadership in York , for her work to try to address the big issue of inequality face our city by drive through innovation — not least the already - deliver lifting of the blue badge ban , deliver free school meal into school where there be the great deprivation , and reform service . however , it be apparent to we all that not only be local authority fund insufficient , but the funding formula itself need address . it be just sad that we have have to wait 14 year to get to this point . we really need that reform to be bring forward , and I agree that if there can be cross - party talk — even at this late hour — we would welcome they , because meet statutory requirement will clearly be incredibly challenging for all local authority . while York , unlike other authority , will scrape through this year and avoid a section 114 notice , we know that the starvation of fund from central Government have mean that the city be under significant stress . if we do not address the funding formula , we be all go to struggle , and this be not just about local government . the design of the formula and how it operate cross all area , and therefore I ask the Minister to consider it with other colleague . it be not work for health , education , the police , fire , or the broad rental market area , which I will turn to shortly . that put more and more pressure on local government , as it have to integrate its service more with those of other while address all the challenge . York be by no mean the poor place , but it be by no mean the most affluent . we be a post - industrial city in the north and experience many challenge , yet we be the worst - fund upper - tier authority if all the service be add together . that do not ring right — and it be not right , because we have some of the deep area of deprivation in the country . we be the eighth low upper - tier local authority on a stand - alone basis . in real term , my local authority be £ 33 million bad off than in 2010 , but account for the rise in service demand in adult and child ' s social care , we have lose £ 40 million in much - need funding since 2010 . if we look at education — I be grateful for what be say about the dedicated school grant — we have the 17th low funding in the country , which again do not meet the area ' s need , and we sit in the bottom third for pupil with special educational need and disability , which cause real stress . we need the Education Secretary to step up and really invest in those child , because we be see a significant rise in the number of child with SEND , and in York it be high than across the country . we need to understand why that be , but also how we can fund it . school transport fall to local authority , and it be another area under significant stress . child need ehcp to get additional service from different agency , and 98 % of appeal be successful , yet the cost to local authority , parent , child , school and all the agency do not add up . we therefore need reform to ensure that those child get the necessary timely support . we also have an age population . like rural area , it happen in urban area too , but the age be rise fast in place such as York , and the pressure fall on social care budget be significant now . in the spirit of cross - departmental working , we know that the Health Secretary have invest heavily in emergency department at the front door of hospital , but it be the back door of hospital that need the funding , and that be for social care . a quarter of the patient in York Hospital be wait for discharge . if that can be sort out , our NHS would be able to function . again , that spirit of cross - party working be need in the light of where we be today , and such a plan would take the pressure off elsewhere on the wide piece of Government funding . the same go for police and fire funding , and I must highlight — I have a useful conversation with a former Home Secretary about this — that if we do not fund local authority correctly for youth service , we will be pay for that out of the police budget . all these thing be interconnect , which be why I urge the Minister not just to look at local authority funding , but to look at this in the round . of course , public health be another example , and it move into local government for a reason , as Professor Sir Michael Marmot would highlight , to address the social determinant of poor health , ensure people can have great equality and address issue around have long healthy life . however , if we be not make the crucial right investment , we will again see the fallout in other service . I want to understand why we have this real disparity in the funding formula . we have hear today about the council tax regime , which be introduce in 1991 , but business rate be another massive challenge . I be pleased that those on our Front Bench have say they will reform that area , because we need that reform urgently . the Minister will know that York be a place that flood . I be really grateful for the support we have have to build flood defence , but we now fall below the threshold for trigger the Bellwin scheme . those business that still flood be not get the support they would otherwise have have , so it seem as though there be almost a perverse incentive . it would be really helpful not only if he look at that , but also if he would ensure that there be business rate relief for flooded business while they be not able to trade . I would be grateful if he will comment on that . turn to the broad rental market area , York be an incredibly expensive place to live . bear in mind what say about it be a post - industrial city , the cost be drive people out of our area . we do not have the supply of social housing that we need right now . as a result , the local housing allowance be just £ 650 for a two - bedroom property , yet the cost in the private rent sector be £ 1 , 026 . the disparity be such because the broad rental market area be just too broad . as a result , people be be push out , which be impact on our economy . it be a comparatively low - wage economy , with the gig economy , the hospitality sector , retail and tourism , and the disparity be put more pressure on local authority to find support for housing and , increasingly , to address homelessness issue as well . again , these thing be out of kilter , and we need to bring they together to ensure that the system work for local government . I look at the inequality between York Outer and my constituency ; the centre of York be where the great strain be feel . those strain be clearly be feel by family right now , and I urge the Government to carry forward the household support fund . perhaps the Minister could have a word with the Chancellor about that ahead of the forthcoming fiscal event ; it would really help our city . there be a debate on the subject in Westminster Hall last week . that disparity need address for people in my constituency . it be disappointing to hear that the fair funding formula will not happen in this Parliament , and that we will have to wait for the next Parliament — my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) also hear that message clearly — because that need to be bring in across the piece . look at health , and what happen under the primary health trust , or the primary care group , as they be back in the day . my predecessor , Sir Hugh Bayley , make the case that York , which be low fund in that arena , lose out , and that put pressure on local government . it be ironic that the Carr - Hill health funding formula be devise in the Centre for Health Economics at the University of York , yet somehow it perversely mean a disadvantage for York . in recent time , real pressure have be put on service , and I wish to highlight what that mean to York . there have be a 15 . 8 % increase in the cost of child ' s social care . I congratulate our team on the council , which have cut agency spend . I meet the director of child ' s social care the other day , and he say that the team have two agency staff leave , and that the department have clear out agency staff to cut cost . where will the additional headroom come from to pay for that ? the cost of adult social care have rise by 12 . 5 % . the cost of social protection housing service have rise by 26 . 1 % , yet the minimum wage increase be 9 . 7 % last April and 9 . 8 % this April . it all add up . the average rise that local authority get be around 4 % . that be squeeze resource more and more , and the disparity be take its toll . we must protect those most in need , and certainly the voluntary and community sector to ensure that we keep its vitality . clearly it deliver so much . we need a cushion , not a knife , and the fact that we face the challenge of cut , rather than get protection , be extremely worrying . in his opening remark , the Minister talk about other source of revenue that local authority have have , include levelling - up funding , the town fund and the high street fund . York have not have any of that money . it seem that whether it be receive depend more on political affiliation than need , so we have miss out on that , and additional resource have not be put in place . after 14 year , we need not only more funding in numerical term , but a funding formula that work . if that be for the next government to do , we will deliver it ; it be so urgent and overdue . my constituent be smart ; they know what be happen , and they be concerned . they be feel the pinch . they be be stretch as far as they can , and we must ensure that they get opportunity . my constituent deserve so much well ; my constituent deserve a Labour Government . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate , and to follow the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . I be delighted when the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , my great hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , be appoint to his ministerial role , not just because he be a very good friend of mine — indeed , he be a friend before either of we be elect to the House in 2015 — but because ever since he be first elect , he have be a warrior on the Back Benches for rural council . it be therefore no surprise whatsoever to I that he have engage with colleague in recent week on the funding settlement for council , and particularly the allocation for rural council . he have work tirelessly to secure additional funding . I place on record my thank to he for how he have listen to colleague , and for his work to secure additional funding from the Treasury . that have be hugely welcome in Cornwall , include by Cornwall Council . the additional almost £ 6 million that we will receive do not completely fill the gap that we be face , but it have certainly be a huge help and have go a long way to address the funding concern we have , go into the next financial year . that funding , however , do not remove the long - term challenge we face in Cornwall in deliver public service . as you will know , Mr Deputy Speaker , I have an Adjournment debate two week ago , in which I clearly lay out the many challenge we face in Cornwall . I will not bore the House by repeat everything that I say on that occasion , but we face a perfect storm of a unique combination of factor in Cornwall . first , we have an age population . I believe that 24 % of the population be now elderly , which be more than 6 % high than the national average in England , and that be put pressure on social care . Cornwall Council be due to spend £ 256 million in the come year on deliver social care . that be one third of its revenue budget , and that be clearly an unsustainable position for a unitary council . secondly , we have the challenge that come with be a rural and coastal county on a long , narrow peninsula , and that pose challenge for deliver service . although I very much welcome the additional funding be make available through the rural service delivery grant this coming year , the position be not sustainable in the long term . we need a fair funding review to address the need and challenge that rural council face in deliver service in the future . we be expect that in 2021 , but for understandable reason , in the light of the pandemic , we could not do that . however , I would not be be honest with myself if I do not say that I be disappointed that we have not yet deliver it . I urge the Government to come forward with that review as soon as possible . in Cornwall , we face the ongoing challenge of try to meet ever - grow demand with the resource we have . that be place more and more demand on the council tax payer . council tax in Cornwall be now 39 % high than the english average . it be simply unfair that council tax payer in Cornwall have to pay a far big proportion of their income to the council to deliver local service than those in other part of the country , particularly those in urban area . I gently say to the shadow Minister that his proposal seem to suggest that he think that funding from Government grant , rather than council tax , be not taxpayer ' money . the news be that they be both taxpayer ' money . the issue be where the balance sit . money for local government in the funding settlement be not free money . if we want to increase that funding , clearly we have to pay for it somehow , and I assume that the only way that the Labour party propose pay for that be by raise taxis , so the taxpayer would pay . I be call for a fairer distribution of the funding that be available . I be not necessarily talk about hike the Government ' s contribution to local government funding , but there should be a fairer distribution of the funding that the Government make available , to accurately reflect need , demand , and the cost of deliver service in rural area . I massively welcome the rural service delivery grant and the uplift announce for this coming year , but it be not a long - term solution , and we need to address the fundamental issue of funding for local council in rural area . I will add a final point on temporary accommodation . we face a massive issue in Cornwall . many people see Cornwall as a wonderful place to come , but every year many people come to Cornwall who require emergency housing , which put a huge demand on the council . the last time I see the figure , I think we have about 1 , 000 people in Cornwall in temporary accommodation ; that be unsustainable for the council . the cost of deliver that accommodation in a largely tourist area be astronomical because of how people who need temporary accommodation have to be house . we have a particular problem in St Austell ; over many year , the council have seek to house a disproportionate number of people in temporary housing and support accommodation in the town . the sheer number place there by the council have have a huge impact on the community . local resident regularly tell I that although they be happy to play their part and provide their fair share of accommodation , which be clearly need , they be unhappy when they be expect to provide a disproportionate amount . the council really need to look at that . it be disturb that when I ask the council for accurate figure on how many people be place in St Austell by various provider , it do not seem able to give an answer ; we just know that it be an awful lot . that have an impact on local service , particularly GP service and the police , and the associate antisocial behaviour be get to a point where local people be say that they have have enough . we need the matter address , so that the number of people that the council place in St Austell be reduce as soon as possible . I very much welcome the uplift announce in the funding settlement for the come year ; that be hugely important to Cornwall Council . however , I still await the fundamental review of the funding formula , and a fair funding settlement for Cornwall Council , so that , go forward , we do not rely on extra pot of money be announce . I be pleased to debate local government finance in Somerset with the hon . member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) at the beginning of the debate , but it would have be well if some of his Somerset colleague have be here to do that with I . it be easy to criticise local government and burden it with blame , but let we face it : it be the perfect scapegoat to distract we from the real - term cut inflict by this Tory Government . I be proud to be an active Somerset councillor , and have have the pleasure and honour of serve my local community both on Somerset Council and in this House . I know councillor of all colour be work hard in Somerset to deliver for their resident , but the funding system for local government be simply broken . I be desperately concerned for the future of local government ; it need major reform . I have speak on multiple occasion about the issue face Somerset Council , because of the national problem face all local government . the council have to declare a financial emergency just last year owe to a £ 100 million funding gap for 2024 - 25 . the Government have offer a £ 5 million payment to try to plug the gap , but that be woefully inadequate . while the additional support through the financial settlement be welcome , it be simply not enough . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , for engage with I and the council ; that engagement have be very much appreciate across the county . however , unless the Government can provide substantially great fund , this will not work . will my hon . friend give way ? of course . order . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) have be in the Chamber for about five minute . I do not expect hon . member to walk into the Chamber and seek to support colleague through an intervention . we need fundamental change to the way we fund local government . across the country , we have an age population ; in Somerset specifically , it be forecast that the 75 - plus age group will double over the next 25 year . the demand of adult social care be become more complex and the cost be rise . we can no long fund such an important and expensive service through council tax base on house price from more than 30 year ago . the issue be particularly difficult in Somerset . historically low council tax rate and a damaging six - year freeze under the previous conservative administration have leave the band d rate in Somerset almost £ 260 low than in its contiguous neighbour , Dorset . the rurality of Somerset also pose specific challenge because it cost more to provide service in rural area . the council just can not make enough money locally to fund adult social care . when I speak recently to the leader of Somerset Council , they describe the situation as grim . they have to explain to resident why they will be pay more in council tax but receive less , as cut to discretionary service be be consider . this be a nationwide issue that require a nationwide solution . nine council have essentially go bust since 2018 , and the recent report by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee portray the critical situation face local government . I be thankful to the Committee for its report , which recommend urgent reform to the funding of local authority . I know that many of my colleague in local government share those concern . some think it be now impossible to solve the crisis in local government through local funding . I want to take this opportunity to highlight what our future could look like if we fail to reform local government , provide both statutory and discretionary service and look after the community that we hold dear . our community will be leave with high street full of board - up business as the outdated business rate system put pressure on entrepreneur without adequately fund council . our field will be litter with household waste from fly - tipping as council shut down recycling centre , our street overflow with rubbish from uncollected bin . our town centre will be bereft of quality library , and our road full of even more pothole . as council struggle more year on year to fund adult and child ' s social care , SEND and housing , those service will undoubtedly deteriorate . much of what I have mention be already a reality for million around the country — it be simply terrify to think how much bad it could get . council leader have tell I that we need a long - term solution , but politics be a short - term game . the Government have be reluctant to approach this issue seriously with a long - term plan , as evidence by their unwillingness to follow the recommendation of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee and to publish a 10 - year plan to tackle the long - term funding of adult social care . I conclude by call for cross - party unity to work together to solve this issue , which we must do for our community . I know that councillor of all colour want to continue to provide the good level of service for their resident , and that council of all colour be aware of the specific challenge they face . we must ensure that council be adequately fund in the long term so that essential reform be realise . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . I appreciate the point she make and agree with much of what she say . I just want to briefly say — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I believe my hon . friend have finish her speech . she be not accept an intervention . be we say that the hon . Lady have sit down ? indicate assent . in that case , you can not possibly have an intervention . I call Peter Aldous . this settlement be welcome because for many council it stave off financial armageddon . however , as we have hear , we need a far more strategic approach to the funding of local council and to how they deliver the crucial service that they provide . year after year we go through an annual routine of the Government issue a provisional local government funding settlement in December , which present many council with significant challenge . that be follow by an intense period of lobbying by council , their representative body and mp . the Government then find some more money to solve the short - term challenge . we then agree the settlement , as we will do tonight . life go on , and we repeat the whole exercise again the next year . I think there be consensus across the Chamber that we must break out of that cycle . a county such as Suffolk face significant challenge , include an age population , which mean that there be an ever - increase group of vulnerable people who require care and support . it be right that my right hon . friend the Chancellor increase the national living wage in his autumn statement but it be wrong that , in the first instance , council such as Suffolk be ask to fund most of the increase themselves from their exist resource . we need to pay properly and support the thousand of worker go out in all weather condition to care for and assist vulnerable people in their own home . like Cornwall , Somerset and Dorset , Suffolk cover a large geographical area . in such circumstance it be expensive to deliver service , include , as we have hear , home to school transport and SEND provision . face with those challenge and an inadequate provisional settlement , Suffolk County Council cut its funding for art and heritage . the latter in particular leave the Waveney and Lowestoft area inadequately serve and resource with regard to archive and record . I be sure that I will return to that issue in due course . my right hon . friend the Levelling up Secretary be right to set up an expert panel to advise on financial stability , and to ask local authority to produce productivity plan , but more be require . as I have say , we need to move away from the current short - term approach to local government funding . to do that , I suggest the follow change should be consider . first , as many member have say , there should be multi - year financial settlement rather than the annual settlement that we have have for the past six year . secondly , we must recognise the add cost of deliver service over large rural and coastal area such as Suffolk . thirdly , work in conjunction with the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities must provide a sustainable long - term plan for social care , with care worker be fairly pay and provide with proper career path . there should also be a review of statutory responsibility in such area as home to school transport , to ensure that they be properly fund . finally , as we have hear , the Government should carry out the relative need and resource review — the so - call fair funding review . the review should look at not only the opaque and complicated formula use , but the datum use for the assessment of relative need , which , as we have hear , date way back — much of it to the last century . in his sum up , I hope that the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who have take extremely well to his new role , will be able to herald in the long - term strategic approach that local government so desperately need . let I first declare an interest . although I be no long a borough councillor , I be until last May , and I understand that I still have to register that until 12 month have pass . I want to thank the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and Ministers past and present , because the £ 600 million be a significant increase and be very welcome . I also thank Leicestershire County Council , Charnwood Borough Council , my parish and town council , and other throughout the county . my colleague there do wonderful work , as do the official , and I greatly appreciate what they do . I will not go into too much detail about the issue of fair funding , because it have be well rehearse . since 2019 and , I understand , before I enter the House , all the Leicestershire mp have lobby Ministers continuously , include many a Secretary of State and many a Chancellor . I will say , however , that if we be talk about a fair funding formula , the operative word be " fair " , and that standard be not be meet at present . if something could be do about this in the very near future , I would be most grateful . the argument about rural area have also be well rehearse . I thoroughly support what be say by my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) , and it be always worth listen to my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . many of his point be exactly the point that I be intend to make . I do not like to moan — I prefer to come up with a solution if I possibly can — so I want to suggest something along the line of what my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) say in the police debate early this afternoon . he talk about the use of police resource by other Departments , such as the Department of Health and Social Care , and I think that the same apply to the use of council resource by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) allude to this , in the context of education , health and care plan . last Friday evening two of the eight slot in my constituency surgery be about ehcp , and on the previous Friday three of they be . the county council have a statutory responsibility to deliver ehcp , but the Department of Health and Social Care can say what it want about the " h " element without have to deliver the resource . the county council feel that it have to deliver they itself , and that put additional cost and time pressure on the 20 - week window within which it must finalise an EHCP . I should like something to be do about that , so that the Department that ask for something actually pay for it . exactly the same happen in my borough council in respect of support housing benefit . because some charity in my constituency be not register social landlord , the council can not claim the whole of the benefit back from the Department for Work and Pensions , and be therefore out of pocket by about £ 1 . 5 million , which be simply unsustainable on a budget of about £ 16 million a year . instead of the customer of Departments such as the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — the council — pay for those thing , the Department that want they to be do should pay . in his opening speech , my hon . friend the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety talk about spending on frontline service . I agree entirely with what he say , but I also believe that if council spend money on thing that they want to do , they should not necessarily be unable to get money back from Departments . for 14 year minister in this Government have come to the House to lay out their plan for local government finance , and for 14 year there have be a constant theme : stick plaster policy . instead of provide the certainty and stability that local government be cry out for , the Government have again set out proposal that have be chop and change in admission of their own failure . council of all political stripe be leave shell out million and community and service user be pay the price , but I do not believe for a moment that minister have take the step necessary to end this crisis — a crisis compound by spiral inflation and a failure to grow our economy , where council be spend eye - watering amount on temporary accommodation , and where at any moment the next domino could fall and another council could be on the brink of collapse . this be not sustainable . local authority need a Government who will support they with a long - term plan , because we be under no illusion about the scale of the problem . give the need for a long - term plan , be labour to win the election , how much extra would local government get in the first year of a Labour Government ? as I will come on to say shortly , we will have a review to look at the long - term plan . we understand the problem that local government be face . we have hear from hon . member on this side of the House , include the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who set out a comprehensive summary of the issue face local authority and council generally and thank council and councillor for carry on and do the work they need to do to run the council . he also remind we of the impact of the public health cut that local authority have see . my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) refer to issue in her local authority and to the gap between rise need and available funding . as many other member also mention , SEND funding be an issue , as be the impact of public health cut . we all understand that there be no magic wand and no quick fix , but if the Government be prepared to work with council to build from the ground up and to deliver the service that taxpayer need and deserve , I truly believe that we can bring an end to this crisis . however , over this last decade the Government have abandon any interest in this kind of co - operation and instead tear down the protection that be mean to prevent a crisis like this . as we have hear , they have rip away any financial oversight of local council spending , scrap the Audit Commission and push council to borrow more and more . they have also leave council without a function early warning system , mean that they can not even sound the alarm when they be struggle . we can not go on like this , and that be why a Labour Government would instead prioritise stability and great certainty , unlock multi - year funding settlement to give local taxpayer well value for money , fix our break audit system to restore genuine oversight and partnership with local government , and prioritise certainty and stability over this Government ' s narrow and short - term fix to problem of their own making . it be a pleasure to wind up for the Government in this debate . I will just say gently to one of my shadow , the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , that if the situation be as bad as she and the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) have paint it , I be surprised that with the exception of those on the Front Bench and the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) — I know , as a former Select Committee Chairman , that one be oblige to take part in these debate when they relate to one ' s Department — we have , against all this horror , have only one Labour Back - Bench contribution . I thank and congratulate the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) — at least there be one Labour Member who be concerned about local government and who be not oblige to come and talk about it . what an exciting prospect we have — the nation sit agog ! after 14 year of opposition , a review to look at long - term plan be what the hon . member for Blaydon tantalisingly hold before the House and the electorate . after 14 year of opposition , one have to ask what on earth they have be do with the time . a review to look at long - term plan ! as always , the Labour party be quick to critique and slow to deliver . what a contrast to the speech we have hear from Conservative Members . I take the Minister back to the beginning of the debate , when the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety talk about do a long - term review of local government finance in the next Parliament . the difference , of course , be that the Government have be in power for the last 14 year and could have do something about it . the hon . Gentleman and I have discuss this on many occasion , and I know he broadly agree with I on this point . local council chief executive and leader would have come at the Department with pitchfork and flame torch if we have dump a 200 - page consultation document on their desk at a time when they be rally to support their community during the covid crisis . this year , as last year , the Government have rightly set our focus on stability , certainty and security . I believe this local government finance settlement deliver on all three . will the Minister give way ? no . if the hon . Gentleman be not here for the opening , he can not take part in the summing up . he have try that trick before , and it do not work then . as we hear from the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , for Sheffield South East and for Blaydon , some of these issue come through in the consultation and in the engagement : support for special educational need ; a long - term view of adult social care ; and reform to the funding formula , which so many hon . and right hon . member have reference . a reformed funding formula would provide stability and security to our local authority , and the good way to deliver it be through cross - party working . that be what this House owe they . when I be ask to take on this job , I have no idea of the complexity and time require to arrive at a local government finance settlement . I thank all colleague who come along to take part in my parliamentary engagement , which be hugely helpful . I pay tribute to my private office and to official in the Department — long hour , huge work . I pay particular tribute , not least because her note tell I I have to , to Victoria Peace for all her hard work , as well as to Kate , Nico and other . it have truly be a team effort . I also thank the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Prime Minister for listen to the case that the Secretary of State and I take to they on revise the formula . we say that we would listen , we do and we have act . those be the hallmark of prudent , listen , caring , one - nation conservativism , and it be writ large in this local government finance settlement . I also pay tribute , as so many other have , to the work that councillor and council officer do , day in and day out , to deliver to make the life of some of the most vulnerable people in our society more bearable and a little well , and to create a sense of place in which people wish to live . we salute all of they . be all of they brilliant ? of course not , but not all of we be brilliant either . but I know that , day in and day out , they focus on do their good . I have be call many thing , but the hon . member for Sheffield South East call I " genuinely helpful " . my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) call I " the great rural tsar " and a " knight in shine armour " . and my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) call I a " warrior " for rural council . I be grateful for those comment , and I look forward to their be carve into my headstone in due course . not too soon . not too soon , I hope . I could bore the House with the figure for the local authority of each Member who have contribute , but those figure be on the public record . they be all go in a positive direction . I think we have start to make significant inroad into address those concern , by turn our thinking to the common theme that have range through this debate . the trajectory on SEND and adult social care show no sign of abating , and we need a long - term solution . the formula do need reform and the Government be commit to do just that in the next Parliament . I say to everyone that the transformation and productivity plan , which we see as a key part of the settlement , be all part of underscore that " Agenda for Change " be a process , not an event ; it have to be iterative and organic , because , as my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay mention , we have no money and council have no money save that which we raise through the taxpayer . we have a duty to ensure that we deliver the big bang for each and every buck . my hon . friend the Members for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) and for West Dorset , the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) and for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) all make important point about how the formula review must ensure that we take into account the differential in the demand of need in deliver service in a rural or coastal area . I do not believe that we would be right in any definition of the term to say that " need " in an urban area outrank that in a rural or coastal area , or vice versa . need be need and our local authority want to play their part in make a difference on that . my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough be not the only one , but she be right to mention the need for other Departments , when they create a new burden or duty on local authority , to take into account the budgetary impact that those service have , and I certainly take that on board . my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye make that point as well and I agree with all who have make it . the hon . member for York Central ask a specific question about the flood recovery framework and business rate . I be delighted to confirm to she that 100 % business rate relief be available to business for a minimum of three month where they have be flood and that that relief can continue to an agree date until the business be able to be reoccupie for trading . I hope that that give some comfort to she and to her constituent who have suffer from flooding issue in the recent time . a lot have be do , service can continue , but the need for reform , cross - party working , blue sky think and significant change remain . this settlement be a generous one , with more than half a billion pound or , I should say , " just " half a billion pound , available for child ' s service and adult social care . my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset have long advocate for the rural service delivery grant and that be up now to its high level , at £ 115 million . I know that rural council , include that of the hon . member for North Shropshire , will have welcome that as a useful mean of support their service . we understand , applaud and appreciate the important contribution that council make across our country , and the difference they deliver for their community . we understand and be go to work with the sector , sector leader , council leader and other to ensure a bright , secure and stable future for local council . we be provide a £ 600 million uplift , and , on average , a 6 % to 7 % increase in core spending power for most council . this be a fantastic opportunity for council to continue to deliver and for we to support they . I close with the point that many have make : we will deliver well for our constituent when central and local government work in partnership , match horse pull in the same direction , serve our community and make a vital difference for those who need it . I commend the settlement to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Local Government Finance Report ( England ) 2024 – 25 ( HC 318 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . resolve , that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Principles ) ( England ) Report 2024 – 25 ( HC 319 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . — ( Simon Hoare . ) resolve , that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Alternative Notional Amounts ) ( England ) Report 2024 – 25 ( HC 320 ) , which be lay before this House on 5 February , be approve . — ( Simon Hoare . ) business of the House ( today ) order , that , notwithstanding the provision of paragraph ( 14 ) of Standing Order No . 80a ( carry - over of bill ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motions in the name of : ( 1 ) Secretary Michelle Donelan relate to the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill : carry - over extension ; and ( 2 ) Secretary Alex Chalk relate to the Victims and Prisoners Bill : carry - over extension not later than one and a half hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) business without Debate Data Protection and Digital Information Bill : carry - over Extension Ordered , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 280 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) victim and Prisoners Bill : carry - over Extension Ordered , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Victims and Prisoners Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 259 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Gender recognition that the draft Gender Recognition ( Approved Countries and Territories and Saving Provision ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 6 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Insolvency that the draft Water Industry ( Special Administration ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Insolvency that the draft Water Industry Act 1991 ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . Physician Associates Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a practise NHS consultant psychiatrist . the UK have a severe shortage of healthcare professional , amount to more than 110 , 000 in England alone , couple with a grow age population with an ever - increase need for a strong and responsive health service . to address the shortage , the Government in England have introduce the NHS long - term workforce plan , with additional proposal also set out in the devolved nation . NHS England ' s plan set out a wide range of mostly unfunded workforce measure , include double the current number of medical student place to potentially add 60 , 000 doctor to the workforce by 2036 - 37 . controversially , it also include plan to increase the number of physician associate from approximately 3 , 250 to 10 , 000 , an increase of over 300 % , and anaesthesia associate from approximately 180 to 2 , 000 . that be not to say that physician and anaesthesia associate should not have an important role in the future NHS workplace . however , at this time , serious regulatory and safety concern relate to associate need to be address before the NHS seek to expand their number and role . furthermore , standardise high - quality training pathway and a properly define scope of practice be essential . physician associate , anaesthesia associate and surgical care practitioner be collectively know as the medical associate profession , and I may use the term interchangeably . physician associate and anaesthesia associate currently complete a two year postgraduate course and be employ in a variety of setting in the NHS , include GP surgery , emergency department , and medical and surgical setting , and they have also be introduce to mental health setting . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . the issue be massive — it be massive for I back home , as well — so I thank he for his reasoned and knowledgeable speech , as well as his contribution to the NHS over the year . without an increase in the number of GPs and doctor , do he agree that the healthcare crisis we face will become an abyss ? in small country such as Northern Ireland , student can not get place in our small medical school and be train , work and live in other country , which be a real loss to future stability . do he agree we need to do more to keep our young medical staff rather than let they head to green grass in far off field ? I completely agree with the hon . member . he advocate strongly for his constituent , as always , and for the need to well retain our medical workforce in general , our junior doctor in particular . the Government will have hear his comment . I be sure that thing can be do to improve the current offer to junior doctor in England . indeed , thing can be look at in Northern Ireland , too , with the restoration of political arrangement . an agreement could be put in place that will properly renumerate junior doctor , and also look at the other term and condition of employment that be important in respect of retain the medical and healthcare workforce . these situation be not always about pay ; it be also about wide term and condition . the Government could certainly look in more detail at student debt , for example , as the Times Health Commission outline this week , which may incentivise people to stay in medicine for long . we have diverge slightly into the broad healthcare challenge , so I will return to physician associate , which be the point of this evening ' s debate . there be concern about the regulation and training of this particular group in the medical workforce . physician associate and anaesthesia associate be not currently regulate . there have be a number of recent high - profile case of patient harm as a result of be see by medical associate professional , include , sadly , some death . we know , for example , of the tragic case of Emily Chesterton from Salford who die of a pulmonary embolism have be see twice and have her deep vein thrombosis misdiagnose as a musculoskeletal problem by a physician associate at her local gp practice . anybody who watch the tv programme " 24 hour in A & E " may have see some fairly enlightening scene in respect of the clinical skill of some medical associate professional , include physician associate . there be many example of poor clinical diagnosis and judgment , include , for example , make initial decision to send patient with compound fracture home without an x - ray when the patient actually require surgery . in my own clinical practice , I have work alongside some very competent physician associate , but there be a high degree of variability in their training and skill . only last year , I be force to directly intervene to prevent patient harm follow a paracetamol overdose by a patient who attend A & E . the physician associate incorrectly inform I that they do not require N - acetylcysteine treatment because their liver function test be normal , in spite of the fact that they be over the treatment line as a result of their paracetamol overdose . of course , at that time , the patient ' s liver function test be normal , but they would not have be for very long . the consequence of that diagnostic decision by the physician associate could have be fatal . the key issue for I be that many physician associate do not know or have the self - awareness to understand the limit of their knowledge and practice , but this be perhaps understandable in a health system that fail to adequately regulate and indeed define its scope of practice . there be many other area of concern that have be highlight in a recent British Medical Association survey of 18 , 000 doctor , an overwhelming majority of whom work with physician associate . in November 2023 , due to severe concern around patient safety , the BMA call a halt to the recruitment of medical associate professional to allow proper time for the extent of patient safety claim to be investigate and the scope of the role to be consider . when the physician associate role be introduce , it be clearly see as part of the solution to a shortage of doctor , which currently stand at in excess of 8 , 500 . by free up doctor from administrative task and minor clinical role , it allow they to see more complex patient and get the training require to become excellent consultant or GPs . unfortunately , physician associate and anaesthesia assistant have be employ in the NHS in role that stretch far beyond that original remit , and in many case that be report in the recent BMA survey that I mention , they appear to be work well beyond their competence . that have raise serious patient safety concern — I give some example early — and lead to call to review the role , limit the scope of practice , and protect training for the doctor that the NHS desperately need . when consultant time be take by supervise physician associate , that be to the detriment of training and supervise junior doctor . that have not yet be address or even consider in the NHS England workforce plan . I be grateful to the hon . member for introduce this evening ' s debate . I sit on the Committee that consider the Anaesthesia Associates and Physician Associates Order 2024 . he be draw out several issue . one be competency ; another be patient literacy . a lot of new role be emerge — technician , assistant , associate , and advanced practitioner — and to the public this be now become a blurred space . People do not understand the competence that individual possess , their scope of practice , and where they fit into the medical family , or indeed profession ally to health . do he agree that we need to define those role clearly , and that associate role should be around profession ally to health , rather than associate directly with the medical profession ? I fully agree with the hon . Lady , and I will expand on that a little later . there be certainly confusion among the public about what a physician associate be . many member of the public assume they to be doctor or other healthcare professional . they therefore lack a much great degree of competence . give that it be envisage that the role will be significantly expand , the public understanding and awareness of it , and people ' s expectation when be treat by somebody in that role , be really important . that need to be well address through the current proposal for regulation , which I will come to in a moment . I will talk briefly about general practice and the additional role reimbursement scheme . through the arrs , the Government have provide funding to GP practice that can be use to pay for physician associate and other clinical staff , but not for hire additional doctor and nurse . that be quite extraordinary , and result in GP practice have physician associate rather than fully qualified gps . currently , most physician associate in general practice be fund through the additional role reimbursement scheme : an NHS scheme that fund primary care network to support recruitment across a very limited set of eligible role . the current rule for arrs funding be cause inefficiency as they be not flexible enough to respond to locality need for healthcare staff . in particular , the rule do not allow practice to hire primary care nurse , practice nurse , or indeed GPs , as I mention . over the past year , there have be many development in how the Government and the profession view the role of physician and anaesthesia associate , but it seem extraordinary that when we be talk about support general practice in develop the right skill and competence , and deliver the right service for patient , one of the key funding scheme do not allow for the hiring of the GPs and practice nurse that be need , and be skew towards physician associate . I wonder whether the Minister might take that away , look at the scheme , and help to provide additional flexibility , which general practice would like and which seem eminently sensible , to allow recruitment at a local level , in line with patient need . there be significant concern connect with the roll - out of the anaesthesia associate project . while the GMC address some of those issue in its recent letter to NHS England , a number of concern remain . in particular , the NHS long - term workforce plan suddenly project a huge expansion in the number of anaesthesia associate , but no expansion in the number of doctor in anaesthesia — or , as we be talk about position assessment , in the number of doctor in other speciality . to many , that look like a replacement of doctor with anaesthesia associate , rather than anaesthesia associate be employ to complement the anaesthesia team , which be the idea previously portray . there be many example of medical associate professional in the wide sense work in way that have cause concern , as we have discuss in this debate , particularly with regard to their scope of practice . anaesthesia provision in the UK must continue to be lead and deliver by doctor , who be properly train and properly regulate . anaesthesia associate be valuable member of the anaesthesia team in addition to doctor , but they be not a solution to the challenge of low workforce number in anaesthesia and grow waiting list . the answer be to expand consultant number , an expansion in training scheme place for doctor in anaesthesia , and the development of the large number of speciality doctor and locally employ doctor already in post . creation of speciality and specialist doctor and consultant via the General Medical Council ' s new portfolio pathway could result in our have many more independent doctor in anaesthesia and other medical discipline . it seem extraordinary that we be not look at that first , give that we have a properly regulate and properly train profession , rather than at expand a workforce that be not subject to proper regulation to date , do not have a certify training pathway , and have be associate with a significant number of adverse patient outcome and incident . regulation ensure consistent standard for training , and for the practice of physician associate and anaesthesia associate . it maintain standard and , critically , contribute to patient safety . as per the recent Anaesthesia Associates and Physician Associates Order 2024 lay before the UK and Scottish Parliaments , those associate will be register with the General Medical Council . however , there be increase concern that that could far blur the distinction between doctor and anaesthesia associate . in response to those concern , the GMC have say that physician associate and anaesthesia associate will be issue with a registration number format that distinguish they from doctor . that be to be welcome . however , it must go far and present doctor on a separate register from physician associate and anaesthesia associate , whether we be talk about a register online or in print — that align with the point that the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) make — so that it be very clear that the different profession be regulate under separate register . that be important for both accountability and transparency , and it be important that patient understand that . there should be a clear distinction between the register of doctor and other register . that be necessary to provide absolute clarity for patient and other who wish to access the register , and it be essential to protect everyone from accidental or deliberate misrepresentation . with modern information technology system , there be no legitimate reason why that can not be do . it would be simple , and it be about transparency , openness and patient well understand the difference between the responsibility of doctor , and those of physician associate and anaesthesia associate . I hope the GMC be listen to this debate and will ensure properly separate register . that do not cost much , but be very important . perhaps the crucial point in this debate be the scope of practice . there should be a national scope of practice for physician associate and anaesthesia associate , both on qualification and after any post - qualification extension of practice . any future change to scope of practice should be develop in conjunction with the regulator and should be agree at national level . I understand that currently the GMC will not regulate extended scope of practice , which be very regrettable . for example , we be aware of whether a doctor be on the GP register or a specialist register , or just have a licence to practise . those level of expertise be part of the regulatory framework . it seem extraordinary that although the GMC have be ask to look at regulate physician associate , there be no understanding of the scope of a physician associate ' s practice . that need to be properly map out and explore . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make those point . it be particularly concern that a prescribing nurse , say , could become a physician associate , but perhaps without the ability to prescribe . that would create even great confusion . do he agree that we need clarity and distinction to be draw on those kind of issue ? I fully agree ; the hon . Lady be absolutely right . I be go to address that very point about prescriber a little later . there be clear agreement on the challenge . those issue should be think through before a workforce plan be bring forward , and before there be a significant expansion of the workforce , for reason of patient safety , particularly as concern have consistently be raise about the scope of practice and adverse incident . it be rather put the cart before the horse to say , " we want to expand the workforce without deal with the important issue of how that workforce be train , how it can properly be regulate , and what its scope of practice be . " that be unfortunately a regrettable failing of NHS England ' s plan , which I hope it will consider . if the GMC can not regulate extended scope of practice , they should be devise accord to a national framework . there need to be an understanding of what that should be . it be unacceptable for employ organisation in the NHS to devise their own extended scope of practice without reference to at least some national framework — one that have the confidence of regulator and standard setter — so that we know and understand what good practice look like . doctor should be directly involve in devise any change to the scope of physician associate and anaesthesia associate practice , whether on qualification or at extended level . there should be no extension of role beyond the scope of practice on qualification until national guidance be issue . where organisation be plan such an extension , it should be pause for reason of patient safety . where physician associate or anaesthesia associate be already work in an extended role , it should be record on the healthcare organisation ' s risk register , and the organisation should ensure that it have full confidence in its standard of supervision , access to support , indemnity of the anaesthesia or physician associate and the supervise doctor , and patient information and consent . anaesthesia associate have a role to play as part of the wide anaesthesia team , but it be important to ensure that it be a complementary role as an addition to the workforce , not as a replacement for doctor and nurse , as the hon . Lady rightly underline . expansion in the number of anaesthesia and physician associate should not be at the expense of expansion in the number of doctor in specialist post . let I come briefly to assessment , which be another area that have not be well think through . it be important that assessment for anaesthesia associate role be standardise at national level . the Royal College of Physicians do a national exam for physician associate , but a national body need to be establish to undertake the assessment process for anaesthesia associate if we be to ensure confidence in their competency . it may be possible for that to be deliver locally , if there be stringent control in place to ensure consistency . however , before the anaesthesia associate workforce be expand , there need to be some process for assess competency . on indemnity , which be also address by the hon . Lady , further information be need around indemnity cover for both physician associate and anaesthesia associate , as well as for any doctor supervise they . " good medical practice " expect all doctor to ensure that they be fully indemnify . the same standard should apply to physician associate and anaesthesia associate . many doctor in anaesthesia , in general practice and in emergency department be already worried about medicolegal liability when work with physician associate , and clear guidance be urgently need . although reference be make to accountability , more information be require in this area , give the challenge that we know have arise . the hon . Lady mention prescribing right . some physician and anaesthesia associate — for example , those with a nursing background — may already have those right from their parent profession . the Commission on Human Medicines be responsible for decide which profession be able to prescribe , and it be important that it be clear in its guidance and reasoning in respect of physician and anaesthesia associate before there be a wide roll - out of those role . I draw the Minister ' s attention to key finding from the British Medical Association ' s recent survey , which seek the view of over 18 , 000 doctor about the role of the medical associate profession . almost 80 % of respondent — that be well in excess of 15 , 000 doctor — have work with or train medical associate professional , which mean that contact with those professional be widespread throughout the NHS . medical associate professional be currently unregulated and have a poorly define scope of practice . the BMA survey respondent be very concerned about that , as well as about the fact that map have be employ in the NHS in a variety of role , which go well beyond what be originally envision as an assistant role . a staggering 87 % of doctor survey believe that the way that physician and anaesthesia associate work in the NHS be a risk to patient safety . for the Minister ' s benefit , that be the good part of 18 , 000 doctor who work with this workforce raise concern about working practice and patient safety . once again , I be grateful to the hon . member for give way . doctor in training need a very clear career pathway , but because of the rise in anaesthesia associate in particular , but also in physician associate , the pathway to many more senior role will be block . as a result , people will stagnate as doctor in training , as oppose to get a consultancy . do he agree that that be highly problematic , and that the career pathway need work through before there be any increase in the number of physician and anaesthesia associate ? that be absolutely essential . at the moment , the prerequisite appear to be a biomedical science degree , which be incredibly variable — depend on whether a person go to Hull , Newcastle or a London university , a biomedical science degree could be very different — and then two year of study . a physician associate would then have to pass an exam set by the Royal College of Physicians , but when a person pass that exam , it do not necessarily mean that they have standardise or good training ; potentially , it just mean that they prepare well to pass their exam . the difference with doctor in medical school — and indeed the difference with nurse go through nursing school — be that they be consistently assess , all the way through their undergraduate training . when they graduate at the end of that training , they be consistently assess as they progress . none of that exist in the training pathway for physician or anaesthesia associate ; in fact , as we have discuss , there be not even an exam for anaesthesia associate at the end of the process . it be absolutely essential that those issue be address as a priority , and it be little wonder that patient death and adverse incident be occur on such a scale . perhaps when the Minister be suffer from insomnia late at night , he may wish to watch old episode of " 24 hour in A & E " . he will see the huge variability in the expertise of physician associate . some be very good , but some be not , and we should not be deal with variability in the british health system . that be what we be try to address , so the hon . member for York Central be absolutely right in everything she have say . that highlight the last point I be go to draw to the House ' s attention from the BMA survey of 18 , 000 doctor . some 75 % of respondent say that the quality of training among medical associate profession — physician and anaesthesia associate — be woefully inadequate ; 84 % say that the quality of their supervision when they be at work be inadequate ; 91 % outline the fact that they work outside their competence ; and 86 % of respondent confirm that the public would confuse they with doctor , as the hon . Lady outline . this be not just a few hundred doctor ; this be 18 , 000 doctor say in a survey that they have serious patient safety concern due to the variability in training of anaesthesia associate . there have be far too many adverse incident where thing have go wrong , and it be time for the Government to give NHS England some clear direction that this area need to be look at , and some proper planning and consideration of the expansion of this workforce put in place . these be the ask I have of my right hon . friend the Minister . first , we should ensure there be a standardised and quality assure training programme for physician associate , anaesthesia associate , surgical care practitioner and all other medical associate professional , and indeed that there be ongoing training and supervision to a nationally standardise level when that group be in the workplace post qualification . secondly , we should ensure that the General Medical Council set up a register for the regulation of medical associate professional , separate from the register for doctor . thirdly , as be the case with all other healthcare professional , we should ensure that the scope of practice of physician associate be clearly set out to make sure that we can develop appropriate training pathway and supervisory pathway , but , more importantly , to ensure patient safety . finally , the Government should support the introduction of a system with great flexibility to hire GPs and general practice nurse use the ARRS funding . I thank the House , and I look forward to the Minister ' s response . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) on secure this debate . he speak knowledgeably , both as a serve NHS medic and as a former Health Minister . let I begin by make a very important point . I address it in the Delegated Legislation Committee on 17 January , but it be worth repeat . the role of a physician associate be to work with doctor , not to replace they . improve patient safety and care be at the heart of the NHS long - term workforce plan , which , back by significant Government investment , show our determination to support and grow the workforce . as set out in the plan , role such as physician associate , who remain supervised by doctor , play an important part in NHS provision , and it be therefore right that we include a range of role and skill in our multi - disciplinary team that can offer personalised , responsive care to patient . it be important to note that the NHS long - term workforce plan commit to double medical school degree place to 15 , 000 a year by 2031 - 32 . that compare with 1 , 500 physician associate place . in turn , this will mean a major expansion of specialty training , on which we be commit to work with the royal college . we have accelerate this expansion by allocate 205 additional medical school place for the 2024 - 25 academic year , with the process for allocate 350 additional place for the 2025 - 26 academic year already under way . this demonstrate our commitment to the medical profession , and reaffirm that we absolutely do not see physician associate as replacement for doctor . there be currently 139 , 200 full - time equivalent doctor work in the NHS in England , which be over 42 , 100 , or 43 . 4 % , more than in 2010 . patient safety remain of the utmost importance , and regulation will help bring further clarity to patient and healthcare professional on the nature of these role and their remit . physician associate be qualified and train health professional . they undergo a three - year undergraduate degree in a health , biomedical science or life science subject , follow by two year of postgraduate training , gain significant clinical experience . alternatively , some university now offer an undergraduate degree PA course that include an integrated master ' s degree in physician associate study . those course take four year to complete . training involve supervise practice with real patient , with at least 1 , 600 hour of clinical training . it also include 350 hour in general hospital medicine , and a minimum 90 hour in other setting , include mental health , surgery , and paediatric . the dedicated medical supervisor be responsible for the supervision and management of a student ' s educational process throughout the clinical placement of the course . early , in response to the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , I make the point about the variability of biomedical science degree from different institution . the GMC would not recognise a biomedical science degree as be adequate for a doctor in training as part of their preclinical study , because of that variability . will my right hon . friend raise that issue directly with NHS England , with regard to put in place a standardised training pathway for physician assistant ? my hon . friend make a valid point , and that be one reason why regulation be so important . the GMC have assure I that although draft regulation be out there , it will be consult far on they later this year , so my hon . friend , the BMA and various other can make strong representation about how the training framework should be provide . with that introductory regulation , the GMC will be responsible for set , own and maintain a share outcome framework for physician associate , which will set a combination of professional and clinical outcome . the outcome framework will help to establish and maintain consistency , embed flexibility , and establish principle and expectation to support career development and lifelong learning . while at the moment there be significant variability in the system , I hope that the regulation we pass in this House on 17 January will help to provide that clarity and give the GMC the power it need to ensure that the training provide to physician associate be of the appropriate quality for the role we be expect they to undertake in our NHS . physician associate can work autonomously with appropriate support , but always under the supervision of a fully train and experienced doctor . as with any regulated profession , an individual ' s scope of practice be determine by their experience and training , and will normally expand as they spend long in the role . that must be couple with appropriate local governance arrangement to ensure that healthcare professional only carry out task that they have receive the necessary training to perform . statutory regulation be an important part of ensure patient safety , but that be also achieve through robust clinical governance process within healthcare organisation , which be require to have system of oversight and supervision for their staff . NHS England be work with the relevant professional college and regulator , to ensure that the use of associate role be expand safely and effectively . that include work with the GMC , royal college and other stakeholder to develop appropriate curriculum , core capability and career framework , standard for continual professional development , assessment and appraisal , and supervision guidance for anaesthetist and physician associate . NHS England will also work with college , doctor ’ representative organisation , aa and pa to identify area of concern . specifically , the NHS have commit to work with the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges and individual professional body to develop and implement recommendation as a result . regulation will give the GMC responsibility and oversight of aa and pa , in addition to doctor , allow it to take a holistic approach to education , training and standard . that will enable a more coherent and co - ordinate approach to regulation and , by make it easy for employer , patient and the public to understand the relationship between the role of associate and doctor , help to embed such role in the workforce . indeed , regulation address many of the concern that we have hear in the debate last month and today . the GMC will set standard of practice , education and training and operate the fitness to practice procedure , ensure that pa meet the right standard and can be hold to account if serious concern be raise . GMC guidance set out the principle and standard expect of all its registrant , and that will apply to PAs once regulation commence . those standard will give assurance that PA student have demonstrate the core knowledge , skill and professional and ethical behaviour necessary to work safely and competently in their area of practice and in a care context as newly qualified practitioner . on that point , can the Minister clarify where the liability will sit if error do occur ? will it sit with the clinician or the consultant who be supervise they ? I be not clear on that particular issue . in many way , it will be the same as with many medical professional . once we have the situation clarify in regulation , it will not be any different from the personal liability of a doctor or other work in an organisation . those be the kind of thing that the GMC will be consult on and discuss with stakeholder in the come month , and be important that all these point be clarify . the hon . Lady be in the debate we have in January , where the tragic case of Emily Chesterton be raise . in that case , unfortunately we see a PA move from one practice to work in another , and we need to ensure that there be a proper , robust fitness - to - practice regime so that any medical professional can be hold to account in such case for what have happen and , if necessary , strike off the register and no long able to practice . the Minister be be generous in giving , and we be take advantage of the slightly extended time we have for this Adjournment debate , but it be an important issue , because it be about patient safety . on that point , he be put a lot of faith in the GMC do thing quickly , when we know there be exist patient safety issue . would it not be more sensible to wait for the GMC to put in place the proper regulatory framework , the proper scope of practice and the other piece of work that be be do before we commit to an expansion of a workforce when we know there be variability and patient safety concern ? I feel that I be be criticise from both angle on this point . some people be say we be go too fast , and other people be say we be go far too slow . a number of year ago , we consult on regulate these profession . we be now move forward . those regulation have pass through the UK Parliament and the Scottish Parliament . the GMC have have a long time to prepare . in my meeting with the GMC , it have reassure I that it be ready to go . it will want to consult to ensure that any further concern that people wish to raise be reflect in the regulation . it want to ensure that it get the regulation right , but it have know that they have be come for some time . we consult on who be well place to regulate physician associate and anaesthetist associate back in 2019 , so the GMC have have some time to lay the groundwork . under the long - term workforce plan , there be a much more significant expansion of doctor , as oppose to physician associate or anaesthetist associate . the number of extra doctor we be bring in to the health service , as compare with physician associate , be of a magnitude of five to one . I hope I can reassure hon . member that this be not in any way about replace doctor . doctor be still absolutely pivotal to patient care and will be heavily involve in oversee physician associate , who be not doctor and need to be oversee in clinical practice . the role of physician associate be in no way a replacement for that of any other member of the general practice team . they work in conjunction with and be complementary to an exist team . physician associate can help to broaden the capacity and skill mix within a practice team by help to address the need of patient in response to the grow and age population , but let I be clear that the employment of PAs do not mitigate the need for more gps , nor do it remove the need for other practice staff . there will be a wide range of clinician , such as pa , who be well suited to provide care in general practice as part of a multidisciplinary team , but GPs remain at the heart of general practice and primary care , and that be not go to change . as we develop and progress with change to the NHS workforce , it be vital that the expansion of physician associate and their role be deliver safely . GMC regulation be a positive step forward in the safe expansion and further integration of aa ' and pa ' role within the NHS . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich for once again bring the House ' s attention to this important issue . I look forward to continue to work with he and other right hon . and hon . member to ensure that we get this right . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Data Protection and Digital Information Bill : carry - over Extension Ordered , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 280 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) victim and Prisoners Bill : carry - over Extension Ordered , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Victims and Prisoners Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a shall be extend by 259 day until 12 December 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . )